Report No. 538a-MLI                                                                                    U CO V
Appraisal of a
Livestock Project
Mali
January 10, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published. quoted or cited without Bank Grotup authorization The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy of completeness of the report.



f
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                         MF 50
MF 100            =          US$ 0.2222
WEIGHTS AND MEAJURES
1 millimeter (mm)             =          0.0394 inches
1 meter (m)                   =          39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =          0.6215 miles
1 hectare (ha)                =          2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)               =          2.205 pounds
1 ton (t)                     =          2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)                   =          1.056 liquid quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        : African Development Bank
BDM        : Banaue de Developpement du Mali
CFDT       : Compagni.e Frangaise Dour le Dgveloppement des
Fibres Textiles
FAC        : Fonds dtAide et de Cooperation
FED        : Fonds Europeen de Developpement
IDA        : International Development Association
IEMVT      : Institut d'Elevage et de M6decine V6t6rinaire
des Pays Tropicaux
IER        : Institut d'Economie Rurale
ILCA       : International Livestock Center for Africa
ILRAD      : International Laboratory for Research on Animal
Disenses
ODEM       : Op%6ration de D6velonpement de l'Elevnge de la
16gion de Mopti
OPIBEVI    : Office Malien du Betail et de la Viande
Py         : Project Year
RMWA       : Resident Mission in Western Africa of the World Bank
SEDES      : Socie6t6 d'Etudes pour le D6veloppement Economique et
Social
SOMBEPEC   : Societ6 Malienne du Betail et des Peaux et Cuirs
SONEA      : Soci6te Nationale pour 1'Exploitation des Abattoirs
USAID      : United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................i .v
I. INTRODUCTION                    .        .         ..........         1
II. BACKGROUND 1...
A. General  . .
B.   The Agricultural Sector.                                       2
C. The Livestock Subsector .                    .                   3
D.   Deterioration of the Pastoral Resource                         6
E.  Livestock Development Strategy .                 .              8
III. THE PROJECT AREA .                                                     9
IV.   THE PROJECT ........... v.....................                      10
A. Summary Description    .                   .10
B. Detailed Features    .                    .11
Livestock Extension and Grazing Control                   11
Animal Health Services   .              .13
Watering Facilities   .                .14
Abattoir and Hide-Drying Facilities                        14
Livestock Markets    .                 .15
Mopti Trial Station .        ......................        15
Personnel Training and Functional
Literacy Programs   .               .16
Preparation of a Second-Phase Project                      17
C.  Organization and Management .                 .                17
Organization ...*..................... .                   17
Staffing ..................................               18
D.   Accounts and Audit ..........................                 19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. H. Ochs, F.X. Leduc and E. Schertz (IDA), and R. Biscaldi, J. Gallais
and D. Pratt (consultants), which visited Mali in January/February 1974.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ........  19
A.   Project Costs .......................,.....  19
B.   Financing ......................   20
C.   Procurement ......        ................   21
D.   Disbursement .......        ...............   21
VI.   PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  22
A.   Production ......         ................   22
B.   Prices ......................   23
C.   Markets ......................   23
D.   Financial Results .......................   24
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....     ..........  25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION   .... ......  26
ANNEXES
1.   The Fifth Region
2.   Supply and Demand, Prices, and Taxation for Livestock and Meat
3.   ODEM - Headquarters at Mopti-Sevare
Table 1 - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Operating Costs
4.   Livestock Extension and Grazing Control
Grazing Control
Table 1 - Investment and Operating Costs
Table 2 - 10 Tree-Nurseries: Investment and Operating Costs
5.   ODEM - Animal Health Services
Table 1 - Investment Costs
Tab.le 2 - Operating Costs
6.   Construction of Watering Facilities
Table 1 - Construction, Renovation and Maintenance
Costs of 50 Ponds
Table 2 - Construction and Maintenance Costs of 70 Wells
Chart   - Hydrological Units of the 5th Region
7.   Mopti Abattoir and Hide-Dryin  Facilities
Table 1 - Past and Projected Slaughter Rates
Table 2 - Investment Costs
Table 3 - Income and Operating Costs
Table 4 - Cash Flow



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
8.   Livestock Markets
Table 1 - Past and Projected Throughput
Table 2 - Investment Costs
Table 3 - Income and Operating Costs
9.   Mopti Trial Station
Table 1 - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Operating Costs and Income
10.   ODEM - Staff Training Costs
11.   Preinvestment Studies and Project Preparation
12.   Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table 1 - Without the Project
Table 2 - With the Project
Table 3 - Incremental Beef and Milk Production from
the Cattle Herd
13.   Incremental Meat and Milk Production from Sheep and Goats
14.   Terms of Reference of ODEM Senior Staff
15.   Summary of Project Costs
16.   Project Cost PhasiMy
17.   Financing Plan
18.   Annual Disbursement of IDA Credit
19.   Quarterly Disbursement of IDA Credit
20.   ODEM Cash Flow
21.   Government Cash Flow
22.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
CHART
Proposed Organization and Management
MAP
Locatiorn of Project Activities






MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of Mali has requested IDA assistance in financing
a livestock project. The location would be the 5th Region, Mali's most
important and high potential livestock area (89,000 km , 1.12 million
people), which during the 1972/73 drought lost about 25 percent of its 1.7
million cattle and 10 percent of its 2.2 million sheep. It would be IDA's
first livestock operation in Mali, and the first comprehensive effort in
West Africa to increase range livestock production by pastoralists in the
Sahelian zone. RMWA identified the project in October 1970, and subsequently
prepared it supported by PAC-financed SEDES and IEMVT studies and relevant
Malian Services. This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal
mission in January/February 1974.
Project Description
ii.       The project would aim at the rational use of land and water in
the 5th Region and would help about 100,000 pastoralist families to rebuild
and improve their herds and to protect them against future droughts. An
essential feature of the project would be to develop effective grazing
control, which offers the only means of creating and maintaining the con-
ditions in which efficient and stable livestock production can be developed
on the 5th Region's rangeland.
iii.      A combination of incentives, regulation and education is needed
to make grazing control effective: regulation without education would mean
friction between pastoralists and authorities; education alone would produce
results too slowly; and neither would have any lasting effect in the absence
of strong incentives. The incentives and measures used would be adapted to
the different areas covered by the project.
iv.       In three special areas - one of about 5,000 km2 and the other two
about 1,000 km2 together - permanent watering facilities would be provided,
along with animal health and extension services. Pastoralists in these
areas would have user rights to land and watering facilities which would be
granted and safeguarded by the Government. This would provide the pastoral-
ists with an incentive to use their land and facilities properly and an oppor-
tunity to invest in further developments such as fencing and additional watering
facilities. To facilitate regulation and control, the project would aim at
setting up pastoralists as legally constituted groups. Other areas amounting
to about 10,000 km2 would be provided with seasonal ponds and improved animal
health services. The location of the ponds would be designed to increase the
pasture available at the beginning of the dry season and thereby reduce the



- {i -
pressure on the dry season pastures in the Niger Delta.  As the areas to be
provided with permanent and seasonal watering facilities only cover aboalt 20%
of the 5th Region, and since the methods of introducing grazing control are
new and untried, emphasis would be placed on the preparation of a seconc-phase
project based on the experience provided by the first.
v.        The project would be carried out over the five years 1975-79 End
would comprise:
(a) introducing livestock extension services and grazing control
in three special development areas;
(b)  providing improved animal health services throughout the
5th Region;
(c) constructing 70 wells and 50 ponds;
(d) constructing, and managing an abattoir and hide-drying
facilities at Mopti-Sevare;
(e) constructing and managing five livestock markets;
(f) establishing and managing a 150-ha livestock and pasture
trial station;
(g) providing personnel training and testing a functional
literacy program for pastoralists; and
(h) preparing a second-phase livestock project.
Project Execution
vi.       The Government would establish the Operation de Developpement d!
l'Elevage de la Region de Mopti (ODEM), which would be a branch of the
Ministry of Production responsible for all livestock development in the 5:h
Region and for the execution of the proposed project. ODEM would have legal
authority to grant user rights to grazing lands and watering facilities aad
to prescribe conditions for their use.  It would include a planning and r'ange
management unit, and services for livestock extension, animal health, livi.i-
stock marketing and processing. It would employ 12 senior staff and about
500 support staff. In the absence of qualified and experienced Malians,
expatriates would probably need to be recruited for at least the followinji:
Deputy Director, Range Management Officer, Water Development Officer, and
Pasture Agronomist. They would be replaced after four or five years by
Malians who would have been trained witlhin the project and abroad. The prO-
ject would also provide for eighteen man-months of consultant services for
studies related to project implementation and preparation of a second-phase
project.



- iii -
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
vii.      The project cost for the five-year period, 1975-79, including taxes
and duties is estimated at US$17.3 million. Taxes and duties account for
about 14% of project costs before contingencies. It is proposed that an IDA
Credit of US$13.3 million be made to the Government on standard terms, cover-
ing 77% of project costs. The Credit would finance the project's foreign
exchange costs (US$9.0 million) and 52% (US$4.3 million) of local currency
cost. The remaining 48% (US$4.0 million) of the latter would be met from
Government budgetary allocations (US$3.4 million), ODEM's revenues (US$0.4
million), and livestock owners (US$0.2 million).
Procurement and Disbursements
viii.     Contracts for all items in excess of US$50,000 would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. This would aggregate about US$7.8 million, covering: (a) build-
ings and structures, US$3.0 million; (b) installation of 40 wells in the
Seno Mango area, US$2.2 million: (c) vaccines, US$0.9 million; (d) vehicles,
machinery, and equipment, US$0.8 million; and (e) well construction and main-
tenance equipment for the Ministry of Public Works, US$0.9 million, to con-
struct 20 wells in the Seno Mango area and 10 wells west of the Delta by
force account. These 30 wells are widely dispersed in remote areas and would
be constructed over a three to four-year period. Contracts for all items
below US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory
to IDA. Domestically manufactured goods procured for the project would be
allowed a 15% price preference (or the level of applicable import duty, whichever
is lower) over foreign goods; and for civil works, domestic contractors would
be granted a 7.5% preference over foreign contractors. The services of ex-
patriate staff and consultants (US$0.8 million) would be obtained according to
procedures acceptable to IDA. The construction and/or rehabilitation of 50
ponds, widely dispersed in remote areas, would be carried out by the Rural
Engineering Department by force account, at a cost of US$0.8 million.
ix.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years to cover:
(a) 95% of local expenditures for the incremental local staff
of ODEM, expenses for staff of the Mopti abattoir for its
first year of operation, and local training expenses of
ODEM staff -- US$1.3 million;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate personnel,
consultant services and training of ODEM's staff abroad --
US$950,000;
(c) 75% of total expenditures for civil works (including
preparatory work) -- US$3.6 million;



- iv -
(d) 100% of fcreign or 75% of total expenditures of vehicles
and equipment, and of livestock for the Mopti trial station
US$450,000; and
(e) 75% of ODEM's operating expenditures during the disbursement
period excluding expenditures for the Mopti abattoir beyond
PY 1 -- US$3.1 million.
US$3.9 million would be unallocated.
Markets
x.        The market outlook for meat is very favorable in West Africa.
Meat is increasingly scarce due to the recent droughts, rapid population and
urbanization growth, and the strength of demand is shown by rapidly rising
prices.  Since the incremental production of the project at full develolmant
would not exceed about 12 percent of predrought domestic output, it shoulld
find a ready market. The hides and skins can easily be exported, or boughit
by the Bamako tannery; the milk would improve the nutrition of about 100,(00
pastoralist families and neighboring farmers and any surplus would find a
ready local market.
xi.       Livestock marketing in the country is reasonably efficient, and
the project would improve the marketing facilities in the 5th Region.
Slaughtering facilities are adequate, since the Bamako slaughterhouse operates
at only about 50 percent of capacity, and the simple abattoir to be construc-
ted under this project: would cover the needs of Mopti, the only large town
in the project area. Meat is retailed by an adequate network of butcher shops.
Benefits and Justification
xii.      The principal direct benefits from the project would be incremcni:al
annual livestock production worth Mf 3.5 billion (US$7.8 million) in 1974
terms, yielding net foreign exchange earnings of the order of MF 1.7 billion
(US$3.8 million). Some 100,000 pastoral families would increase their aver age
cash incomes from livestock production from MF 65,000 (US$144) to MF 100,)O0
(US$222), and almost 400 jobs would be created.
xiii.     The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 51%, and
is not very sensitive to increased costs or reduced benefits.
xiv.      Without the changes that would be introduced under the project,
it is likely that the 5th Region would continue to deteriorate as a grazing
resource, aLs more and more rangeland would be destroyed by overgrazing anc
degraded by shifting millet and rice cultivation.
xv.       Risks.  The proposed project is risky because it is difficult to
assess: (1) the degree to which pastoralists will respond to the grazing
control measures introduced by the project; (2) the degree to which other
pastoralists will be prevented from encroaching on the grazing rights of
participating groups; and (3) the frequency and extent of future droughts.



- v -
Should the grazing control measures fail to be effective, the project would
be conducive to overgrazing and consequently to the deterioration of range-
lands. However, the project would proceed by phases and on the basis of a
development plan previously agreed between Government and IDA; each successive
phase would be undertaken only on the basis of evidence that the previous
phase had been completed successfully. These safeguards would make the pro-
ject adaptable to the lessons of experience and would allow the discontinuation
of activities which show high probabilities of being economically undesirable.
As for the second risk, should participating groups be prevented from cooperat-
ing with the project by encroaching pastoralists, sound resource management
would be impaired and overgrazing would likely result. It can, however, be
expected that the Government would take appropriate measures to protect the
rights of project participants. Turning to the third risk, the project area
may be affected by two different types of drought: (a) moderate droughts
which may typically occur every four or five years; and (b) catastrophic
droughts such as the 1972/73 one. Moderate droughts are not expected to
affect substantially the economic viability of the project. In fact, to the
extent that the project promotes a proper balance between cattle and land,
the project area would be better prepared to withstand such a drought than
otherwise. Historical data show that catastrophic droughts occur every 40
to 50 years. Should this pattern hold, the project will have been success-
fully implemented and extended throughout the region before the next catas-
trophic one occurs.  An appropriate balance between cattle and land would
have been achieved and the region would be in the best possible position to
withstand a serious drought with minimum losses. However, in the unlikely
event that a catastrophic drought should repeat itself in the near future,
it would be very difficult to maintain discipline in the project area and to
prevent invasion by outside pastoralists; and as a result the project would
be in serious jeopardy. Nevertheless, the potential benefits of the project
are so important relative to this risk that the risk is worth taking.
Recommendat ion
xvi.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.3 million.






MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mali has requested IDA assistance in financing
a livestock project, estimated to cost US$17.3 million. The project would
be carried out in the country's most important livestock area, the 5th Region,
and would help to reconstitute that area's drought-afflicted herd and to pro-
tect it against future droughts.
1.02      The project was identified by RMWA in October 1970, and prepared
by RMWA supported by FAC-financed SEDES and IEMVT studies and relevant Malian
Services. It would be IDA's first livestock operation in Mali; three previous
IDA credits have been made for agriculture: (i) the Mopti Rice Project (Credit
277-MLI, US$6.9 million) in 1972, which is proceeding satisfactorily; (ii)
the Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit 443-MLI, US$2.5 million), approved in
November 1973, which is proceeding satisfactorily; and (iii) the Integrated
Rural Development Project (Credit 491-MLI, US$8 million) which was signed
only in July 1974.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
prising Messrs. H. Ochs, F.X. Leduc and E. Schertz (IDA), and R. Biscaldi,
J. Gallais and D. Pratt (consultants), which visited Mali in January/February
1974.
I1. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Mali has an area of about 1.24 million km 2  about 2.5 times the size
of France, and a population of about 5.2 million. It is landlocked and the
closest seaports are Abidjan and Dakar, both about 1,200 km from Bamako, the
capital. Two-thirds of the country receives less than 400 mm annual rainfall
and only one-quarter more than the 550 mm needed to sustain any viable farming.
Rainfall fluctuates widely, causing large variations in crop yields and live-
stock production. There were serious droughts in 1968/69, 1970/71, 1972/73
and 1973/74. The Niger River flows northeast through the country and provides
a large irrigation potential that as yet is largely untapped.
2.02      With a per capita GDP of about US$70, Mali is one of the poorest
countries in Africa and one of the world's 25 "least developed" countries.
GDP at current prices was estimated at AIT 177 billion (US$393 million) in



1972, having increased by about 5% per year in constant prices since 1)70.
Figures for 1973 are not available, but because of the severe drought l
decline of at least 3% is likely. Agriculture and services (including trans-
port, trade and Government) each account for about 40% of GDP, and indistry
for the remainder.
2.03      The main potential for development lies in agriculture, the iainstay
of the economy. Expansion is impeded, however, both by natural constr6,its --
the landlocked location of the country, and the vagaries of the climati -- and
by chronic budget and balance of payment deficits. The latter mainly titem
from previous policies of rapid expansion in industry and the tertiary sector,
and the creation of unprofitable state enterprises.
2.04      The present Government, which came into power in 1968) launchaed a
three-year "Rehabilitation Plan 1970-72" aimed at balancing the budget itd
external trade through developing the productive sectors of the economy.
Although some improvements have been made in the performance of state eater-
prises, and in removing restrictions on private trade, the basic ob4ectLves
of the Plan have not been achieved. The main difficulties have been ha~,ty
project preparation, lack of finance and technical know-how, and the repseated
droughts.  Of the MF 116 billion (US$257.8 million) proposed investmenti,
only about half have been made.  In the livestock subsector the situatit,n is
even worse with only 20% of the investment target being met. The balan::e of
payments deficit on current account, after declining from MF 12 billion (US$26.,'
million) in 1968 to less than MF 4 billion (US$8.9 million) in 1970, in(:reased
to over MF 6 billion (US$13.3 million) in 1972 and to almost MF 8 billic;n
(US$17.8) in 1973. Budgetary deficits increased from MF 2.2 billion (UlS$4.9
million) in 1970 to over MF 6 billion (US$13.3 million) in 1973. The Gclvern-
ment is aware of the need to improve the situation and the forthcoming  Ltve-
Year Plan, now being prepared, will continue to give priority to productive
investmenit.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.05      Agriculture accounts for virtually all exports and provides the
livelihood of 85% of t:he population. Since 1969, it has accounted for 4 % of
GDP.  In 1972, the value of agricultural output amounted to MF 75.5 bill:ox:
(US$167.8 million), of which farming accounted for 49%; livestock, 40%; `iah-
eries, 5%; and forestry, 6%. In 1973 it fell by about 20% due to the drought.
2.06      Farming is carried out on some 500,000 farms of 2-5 ha, mostly at:
the subsistence level. Sorghum and millet are the most important cereals,
followed by rice and maize; cassava, yams, sweet potatoes and vegetables ire
also grown in the higher rainfall areas of the south or under traditional
irrigation.  Production of seed cotton, one of the two most impcrtant casi
crops,i rose steeply between 1967 and 1971, from 39,000 tons to 74,000 toni,
while that of the other, grounduuts, increased from 119,000 tons to 152,0 1c



-3-
tons of shelled nuts. These increases reflect Government investment and
support, as well as favorable world markets. In contrast, the Government
has done little to stimulate food crop production and its policy of holding
officially controlled producer prices at very low levels has been counter-
productive; consequently production of millet and sorghum declined steadily,
cereals have been in short supply, and the need for imports has increased, a
situation that has been exacerbated by the drought. The Government is now
anxious to increase food production,and plans to attain self-sufficiency in
cereals by 1978/79. This requires increasing production of millet, sorghum,
and maize by 200,000 tons, and paddy rice by 100,000 tons per year. In
this connection, the Government agreed during negotiations of IDA's Integrated
Rural Development Project to fix, no later than September 1974, producer
prices for millet and sorghum at no less than IF 25 per kg, which at prevail-
ing prices would have made them more competitive with the cash crops; and to
carry out a study on the producer prices and marketing arrangements of millet
and sorghum. In line with this agreement, the Government increased the con-
trolled producer prices for millet and sorghum from MF 20 to NF 32 in June 1974,
and those for paddy rice from MF 25 to MF 40. Although the producer prices of
foodcrops were increased in absolute terms, relatively there have been no
substantial changes vis-a-vis prices of cotton and groundnuts which were also
increased in June 1974. However, by end 1975, the Government and IDA will
review the study's findings.
2.07      Fishing is the principal source of livelihood for about 30,000
families in the Central Delta of the Niger. About 10,000 tons of dried or
smoked fish are exported to neighboring countries each year.
2.08      Forestry produces shea butter nuts, a cocoa substitute, with an
annual value estimated at about MF 2.0 billion (US$4.4 million), firewood
and building poles.
C. The Livestock Subsector
Numbers, Output and Exports
2.09      Until the drought started to cause major losses in 1972, livestock
numbers had more than doubled in the past 25 years; and for cattle, from
1960-1970, the annual rate of increase was almost 6%. In 1970, the livestock
population included 5.4 million cattle and about 11 million sheep and goats.
Losses during the 1972/73 drought, the worst in 50 years, were most serious
in the cattle population and about 15-20% of the country's herd was lost.
2.10      Livestock's share of GDP declined from 20% in 1969 to 17% in 1972,
mainly due to the repeated droughts, and almost certainly declined further
in 1973. In 1970, total meat and offal production was estimated at 146,000
tons, including 84,000 tons from cattle. Milk production for human consumption
--from cattle, sheep, goats and camels--was estimated at 360 million liters.



- 4-
2.11      From 1960 to 1972, livestock exports more than doubled and reached
a yearly level of 220,000 live cattle and 210,000 sheep and goats, or about
30% of annual livestock production and 40% of all exports. The main custom-
ers are Ivory Coast and Ghana, though exports to the latter have decreasec
considerably due to import and currency restrictions. Carcass meat expor.ts
have been insignificant, 500-1,000 tons per year, and are mainly air freighted
to Liberia and Libya.
The Traditional Producer
2.12      About 40% of Mali's cattle are raised by Peuhls, 30% by Touaregs
and Bellas and 10% by Maures; these mainly semi-nomadic pastoral groups com-
prise only about 10% of Mali's population. The remaining 20% of the cattle
are raised by Bambara, Malay, and Dogon farmers. Only about 250,000 pure
nomads are left in Mali; even the Touaregs and Maures, the most dedicated to
nomadism, are reported to be settling. Transhumance remains the predominant:
production system. Except for calves and milking animals, which remain at
the homestead, cattle go northwards during the rainy season to feed on wet
season pastures and either southwards or to the Niger delta, the "bourgou",
during the dry season wlhere they feed on the natural pastures supported by
the receding Niger flood, and crop residues. Herds typically comprise 50-80
cattle and 10-30 sheep and goats owned by family groups consisting of 2-3
families each averaging 6 family members. Sheep and goats are kept in small
flocks around villages and usually do not follow the cattle on transhumance.
Productivity
2.13      The annual milk and meat production of a typical herd is estimated
at 15% (US$900) of the herd value (US$6,000) of an average herd. About haLf
of this production (valued at US$450) is consumed by the family group, about
one-third (US$300) is scild and the balance (about US$150) represents the
increase in the value of the herd. At market prices this production repretzeats
a per family cash income from livestock production in the range of US$100-15)
a year, which, including the value of subsistence consumption of animal anmi
agricultural products and miscellaneous activities, is roughly equal to the
national average per capita income of about US$70. Livestock productivity
is low due to poor nutrition, and weight losses of 20-30% during the dry
season are normal. Liveweight gains average only 30-50 kg per animal annuailLy
compared to 150-200 kg in Europe and North America. The calving rate is lcow
at around 60%, and mortality rates are high -- about 20% for female and 40a;
for male calves, and 5% for adults. The normal herd offtake is therefore
only 9-10%; and average carcass weights are only 125-150 kg, or less than
half those in Europe and North America.
Animal Health
2.14      Rinderpest, once Mali's most serious animal disease, is now under
control as a consequence of an immunization campaign financed by FED and USAID
in 1964-1969.  This campaign was the main reason for the rapid growth of the



- 5 -
national herd until 1972. Mali has made great efforts to combat the other
principal diseases (para 4.12), although mortality rates from disease remain
high because the Livestock Service (para 2.17) has inadequate operating funds
to sustain its prophylactic activities.
Marketing
2.15      Livestock and meat marketing is carried out by a large number of
established private traders and butchers, and by SOMBEPEC (para 2.19). Trading
generally takes place once a week at simple primary and secondary livestock
markets. Animals are sold on appearance and are not weighed; sales usually
are for cash; most animals are trekked to markets on the hoof over well-
established stock routes, but transport by truck to final processing centers
is increasing and transport by boat from Mopti to Bamako (Koulikoro) is
being developed.
Taxation
2.16      Livestock taxes normally constitute 8-10% of public revenue.  The
head tax of MF 400 for cattle was suspended in 1972, however, because of the
drought, and the revenues so lost have been replaced by offsetting FED grants
in 1973 and 1974. Cattle export taxes amount to about MF 5,000 per head and
slaughter taxes are usually MF 300 per head. Although these taxes are very
unpopular, and probably less than half are actually collected, they are the
only proven way of raising revenue from livestock. The Bank Group is financ-
ing studies in Chad and Nigeria to see whether more effective taxation can be
devised, possibly through passing taxes further down the marketing chain.
Similar work would be carried out in Mali under this project (Annex 11).
Institutions
2.17      The Livestock Service has six regional departments organized into
42 sectors. The Service is relatively well staffed for its present commitments
with 40 veterinarians, 26 livestock officers, 150 assistant livestock officers,
300 animal health assistants and 110 inoculators. It is responsible for
(i) free vaccinations; (ii) supervision of abattoirs, cattle markets and
butcher shops; (iii) production of vaccines; and (iv) supervision of the
Bamako dairy plant. The Service is oriented towards the veterinary medical
aspects of livestock and, so far, has been only little involved in assisting
pastoralists to improve their husbandry, for example through better nutrition
and pasture management. Lack of funds has limited the Service's activities
since the end of the antirinderpest campaign in 1969, but recently the Service
has been strengthened, at least temporarily, by international drought relief
programs, which have provided vehicles and other facilities, and in some cases
operating expenses.
2.18      OMBEVI (Office Malien du Betail et de la Viande), assisted by a
five-man FAO team, collects marketing statistics and advises Government on
meat marketing. It is working on recommendations covering domestic retail
meat prices and improved marketing (para 6.04).



-6-
2.19      SOMBEPEC (Societe Malienne du Betail et des Peaux et Cuirs)  a
State enterprise, has a monopoly of exports of carcass meat (para 2.1:),
hides and skins, and also manages the Bamako abattoir. SOMBEPEC has
serious financial and management problems, and finds it difficult to
compete with private entrepreneurs for its supplies. The Government is
aware of this and intends to reorganize SOMBEPEC this year.
2.20      IER (Institut d'Economie Rurale) is responsible for training eLnd
research. Training is concentrated on Animal Health Assistants (35 pe. year),
Livestock Officers (30-40 per year) and Veterinarians (8-10 per year, abroad).
In addition, there is a four-month practical course for Animal Health Assis-
tants in animal husbandry at the Sotuba Livestock Research Center. The train-
ing programs are of a high standard, and the output of trained personnel is
sufficient for the country's requirements.
2.21      Livestock research is carried out at the Sotuba and Niono stations,
which are located near Bamako and in the 4th Region respectively.  Prorising
results have been obtained in cattle fattening; and in milk production w:th
Jersey x local cattle crossbreeds, although these results have not yet been
taken up by private farmers and pastoralists due to limited extension anld
credit facilities.
Livestock Development: Projects
2.22      Several aid agencies are assisting Mali in developing its livestock
industry. USAID is providing about MF 2 billion for a veterinary laboratory
near Bamako, and is starting a MF 1.7 billion cattle fattening program -.nvolv-
ing feedlots, smallholders, and butchers/cattle dealers between Bamako and
Segou. FED is beginning a MF 1.4 billion project for selecting and distri.-
buting N'Dama cattle in tsetse infested areas and intends to finance a
fattening ranch at Niono in Mali's 4th Region. It is also providing MF 12l
billion for improving livestock water supplies, MF 300 million for vaccities
and MF 50 million for mineral licks.
D. Deterioration of the Pastoral Resource
2.23      The principal problem facing the development of Mali's livestock
industry, and especially the traditional industry of the Sahelian zone, is
the progressive degradation of pastures, which in the northern areas is result-
ing in the advance of desertic conditions. The recent drought years have
accelerated this condition which results from overstocking and overgrazin;,
of cattle. Overstocking is a consequence of a number of interdependent aAid
mutually reinforcing factors that together have resulted in too many anim,als
being dependent upon a diminishing pasture resource.
2.24      This situation arose because existing economic circumstances mai.e
maximizing herd size the most rational production objective of the average
pastoralist. These economic circumstances are:



-7-
(a)  Pastoralists have no legal rights to the use of grazing land,
which is state-owned and used communally; consequently each
livestock owner grazes as many cattle as he can in an attempt
to maximize his share of the common resource.
(b)  In the absence of banking facilities and any other investment
opportunities, cattle provide the only means of accumulating
wealth.
(c)  Milk is an important component in the pastoral family's diet
and its sale is usually the only source of regular cash income.
Consequently, the proportion of cows is deliberately kept high,
which permits the herd to expand rapidly when grazing cond,itions
are favorable.
(d) Large cattle numbers are an insurance against the risks of
losses from drought and disease.
2.25      Additionally, external intervention has further decreased the ratio.
of grazing land to animals because:
(a)  Livestock projects have concentrated on providing improved
animal health care and watering facilities, and neglected the
need for control to ensure a balance between animal numbers
and the carrying capacity of pastures. They have led to a
rapid increase in livestock numbers and serious overgrazing.
(b)  Due to population pressure more and more farmers have moved
into traditional pasture lands and started to cultivate there.
(c)  Increasing numbers of cattle have moved in from Upper Volta
and Mauritania, from the former because of the population
pressures described in (b) and from the latter because of
deteriorating pasture conditions.
2.26      Finally, until recently, cattle movements and the duration of
grazing in each area have been governed by strict traditional rules. Tradi-
tional authority is now breaking down and there has been little if any effort
to identify an alternative.
2.27      If one of Mali's principal resources is to be preserved, and if
the impact of future droughts is to be minimized, livestock numbers must be
regulated. The range must never be grazed so hard that it deteriorates and
fails to regenerate sufficiently quickly to prevent permanent damage.



E. Livestock Development Strategy
2.28      An international emergency effort has been mounted in an atterpt
to relieve some of the effects of the drought on the livestock industry
Mostly this is in the form of financing small, short-term projects with quite
limited objectives. While these projects, among which is the IDA finani:-ed
Drought Relief Fund E'roject (para 1.02), are aimed at helping people in tae
drought affected areas to reestablish their self-sufficiency, there is Lfn
urgent need for longer term projects aimed at a more rational land and pasture
use in the Sahelian zone, and at the development of more efficient beef and
milk production in other parts of the country.
2.29      The objectives of Government's livestock development strategy are
to increase the productivity of livestock resources and to expand the volume
of livestock exports, principally, through:
(a)  helping nomads and semi-nomads make the best use of pasture land;
(b)  opening up rnew grazing areas; and
(c)  helping farmers in higher rainfall areas take up beef and milk
production.
2.30      Achievement of the first objective requires an integrated approach
such as would be implemented under the proposed project.
2.31      In the case of the second objective, Mali still has large areas cf
underutilized rangeland that could be more efficiently used through providling
better watering facililties.  A benefit of this approach would be to relietre
pressure on the present grazing areas.  An important water development pro-
gram in the 5th Region is included in the proposed project. The Governmert
also plans to combat trypanosomiasis in large areas south of latitude 130
north, and has already started to study the methods to be applied.
2.32      In pursuit of the third object, much is already being done to help
farmers take up livestock production. Modern techniques are being tested ard
demonstrated at two research stations, a FED-financed ranch, and in the "Office
du Niger" irrigation scheme.  A USAID scheme is to provide training, extent-ion,
and credit for cattle fattening by farmers. To make cattle fattening more
attractive and to help rebuild the national herd, Government has prohibite:1
exports of agroindustrial by-products, such as groundnut and cotton seed cELke,
and fixed their retail prices well below border prices. Feeder steer markit-
ing to serve fattening schemes would be developed under the proposed proje:t.
Finally, as the area around Bamako is suitable for milk production, the Go';ern-
ment intends to start a smallholder dairy scheme there which will include
artificial insemination, pasture improvement, and fodder growing.



-9-
III.  THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project would cover the 5th Region (Annex 1; Map), which consti-
tutes the most important and high potential livestock area in Mali, and pro-
vides an excellent testing ground for the range management methods provided
by the project. The area is about 89,000 km2 and has a population of about
1.12 million people. Annual rainfall increases from about 300 mm in the
north to 700 mm in the south and occurs from June through September; a dry
and cooler period follows through February, and a dry and hot season from
March through June. The main ecological feature is the 38,300 km2 Central
Delta of the Niger River, which divides the Region into two parts. The Niger
and its tributaries overflow every year in August/September, reach maximum
flood in October/November, and then recede, with the lowest flow in June/July.
3.02      There are two main pastoral groups:  the Peuhl, who make up 36% of
the total population but own 80% of the livestock, and who depend on the
"bourgou" for dry season grazing; and the Touaregs, about 5% of the 5th Region's
population, who frequent the northeastern part of the 5th Region and the
grazing areas of the northern lakes. The remaining 60% of the total population
are mostly Marka, Dogon and Bambara cultivators. The regional capital, Mopti,
has about 35,000 inhabitants, almost double its population of a decade ago.
It is the commercial center for fish exports to the south and for rice and
millet marketing.
3.03      In 1972, the 5th Region had about 30% of Mali's cattle (1.7 million)
and 20% of the sheep and goats (2.3 million). As a result of the 1972/73
drought, about 25% of the cattle were lost, and 10% of the sheep. All cattle
are Zebus and trypanosomiasis is not a problem. During the hot period of the
dry season, most of them graze on the rich pastures of the Delta; in June,
with the first rainfall and the beginning of flooding, they move on and until
November graze on the ample Sahelian pastures in Mauritania, in the Mema
region in the north-west, and in the Seno/Gandamia and Gourma areas in the
east. In November, cattle return to the borders of the inundated Delta and,
as the water recedes, they spread into the Delta itself.
3.04      The ratio of grazing land to animals has steadily decreased over the
past decade as the cattle population has doubled and, as a consequence, pastures
are being depleted. In addition to the build-up of local herds, there has also
been an influx of about 300,000 cattle from surrounding regions that have been
more severely affected by the drought.  At the same time, both pasture area
and quality have diminished, due principally to the repeated droughts and the
encroachment of farmers on traditional grazing areas.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01      The project would aim at the rational use of land and water in the
5th Region and would help about 100,000 pastoralist families to rebuild a.d
improve their herds and to protect them against future droughts.  An essential
feature of the project: would be to develop effective grazing control, wh:.ch
offers the only means of creating and maintaining the conditions in whicns
efficient and stable livestock production can be developed on the 5th Region's
rangeland.
4.02      A combination of incentives, regulation and education is needec. to
make grazing control effective: regulation without education would mean
friction between pastoralists and authorities; education alone would produiue
results too slowly; and neither would have any lasting effect in the absence
of strong incentives. The incentives and measures used would be adapted to
the different areas covered by the project.
4.03      In three special areas - one of about 5,000 km  and the other two
about 1,000 km2 together - permanent watering facilities would be provided,
along with animal health and extension services. Pastoralists in these areas
would have user rights to land and watering facilities which would be granted
and safeguarded by the Government on condition that the land and facilities
were properly used and that grazing was controlled. This would provide the
pastoralists with an incentive to use their land and facilities properly .md
an opportunity to invest in further developments such as fencing, additiol,al
watering facilities, et.c. To facilitate regulation and control, the projcct
would aim at setting up pastoralists as legally constituted groups. Othel:
areas amounting to abou.t 10,000 km2 would be provided with seasonal ponds
and improved animal health services. The location of the ponds would be
designed to increase the pasture available at the beginning of the dry season
and thereby reduce the pressure on the dry season pastures in the Niger
Delta. As the areas to be provided with permanent and seasonal watering
facilities only cover about 20% of the 5th Region, and since the methods oE
introducing grazing control are new and untried, emphasis would be placed t)r
the preparation of a second-phase project based on the experience provided
by the first.
4.04      The project would be carried out over the five years 1975-79 and
would comprise:
(a) introducing livestock extension services and grazing
control in three special development areas;
(b) providing improved animal health services throughout
the 5th Region;



- 11 -
(c) constructing 70 wells and 50 ponds;
(d) constructing and managing an abattoir and hide-drying
facilities at Mopti-Sevare;
(e) constructing and managing five livestock markets;
(f) establishing and managing a 150-ha livestock and pasture
trial station;
(g) providing personnel training and testing a functional
literacy program for pastoralists; and
(h) preparing a second-phase livestock project.
4.05      At present, the sole Government agency concerned with livestock in
the 5th Region is the Regional Livestock Service of the Ministry of Produc-
tion, which only provides veterinary service. The implementation of the
proposed project, however, would require placing a number of diverse programs
under unified control. For this purpose, the Government would establish
the Operation de Developpement de l'Elevage de la Region de Mopti (ODEM),
under the Ministry of Production, to carry out the project.
B. Detailed Features
Livestock Extension and Grazing Control
4.06      The Pastoral Service, which would be one of the arms of ODEM, would
provide livestock extension services and be responsible for introducing graz-
ing control (Annex 4) in the 5th Region. The difficulties in introducing
efficient grazing control on a large scale should not be underestimated, due
to the Region's harsh environment, remoteness and poor infrastructure. Not
the least of the problems will be that the pastoralists will be suspicious
of Government interference and skeptical of the benefits to them. On the
other hand, they have been seriously afflicted by the recent droughts and
should now be more receptive than ever before to innovations, particularly
when, as under the project, a number of incentives to adopt these innovations
would be presented.
4.07      As a first step, the Pastoral Service would develop its activities
in the three areas scheduled for well development, which cover about 7% of
the 5th Region (para 4.17). The initial task of the Pastoral Service would
be to elaborate the decree Government would use as the instrument of establish-
ing groups of pastoralists and providing these with user rights for grazing
lands and watering facilities. The groups so constituted would consist of
sedentary or semi-nomadic village associations each with 10 - 50 families of
6 persons on average and a total of 200 to 1,000 cattle per group. Each group
would receive the exclusive user rights over 2,000 to 10,000 ha -- about 10
ha per head of cattle -- and related watering facilities. During negotiations,



- 12 -
assurances were obtained that the Government would issue a decree, sai:is-
factory to IDA, giving ODEM the authority to: (a) grant user rights :o
grazing land and watering facilities in the 5th Region; and (b) issue and
enforce grazing control regulations.
4.08      The user rights to grazing land would be granted to pastora:-i3t
groups contingent upon their agreeing to follow sound range and cattlt. mana-
gement practices prescribed by, and under the supervision of, ODEM. "has,
they would be expected to agree, inter alia, to avoid over-grazing throligh
rotational grazing and the limiting of stock numbers; adopt more raticnal
breeding policies; apply the animal health measures recommended by ODIM;
maintain their watering points; control bushfires; plant, water and pro:ect
fodder tree/shrub saplings and participate in functional literacy programs.
These management practices would constitute the key medium to achieve a
rational utilization of rangelands in the project area. In the light of the
presently favorable attitudes of pastoralists to adopt innovations (para 4.06),
it is believed that the opportunity to obtain exclusive grazing rights would
constitute strong incentives to follow ODEM's advice. This belief is sub-
stantiated by the response of pastoralists in East Africa to similar oppor-
tunities, and by aslpirations expressed in Mali by pastoralists to the ap-
praisal mission and Malian officials. While these incentives would favor the
objectives of the project, it would be unwise to rely solely upon them (para
4.02). Therefore ODEM would need to have the power and means of enforcing
compliance to the management covenants. On these matters, ODEM would act
through the Governor of the 5th Region who, on the advice of ODEM, would first
warn participants whlo fail to cooperate that they may lose their grazing right.
Subsequent and persistent failure would then lead to the imposition of fines
and, ultimately, to the cancellation of the grazing right, and another group
would be invited to replace the offending group. The Governor of the ..ith
Region would also be responsible for preventing the encroachment of other
pastoralists on the grazing land vested in a participating group; to t].at
effect, the Governor would take appropriate action on the advice of ODIM.
During negotiations, the Government indicated that the Governor of the 5th
Region would take appropriate action, on the advice of ODEM, to enforce: 'he
agreements arrived at between pastoralist groups and ODEM.  Under presen:
circumstances, it is believed that the proposed arrangements would be su:.fi-
cient to obtain the adequate cooperation of pastoralists. Indeed, it i.s ex-
pected that, after four to five years of implementation of the program, wihen
pastoralists should feel that their rights are secure, it should be poss:.ble
to require them to pay grazing fees (para 6.10). The ultimate goal of the
program would be to create the environment in which the groups would be pre-
pared to invest their own labor and money in additional land developmentEs
such as fencing and watering facilities.
4.09      Since fires destroy up to half of the Seno Mango rangeland an:itally,
the Pastoral Service would introduce fire-control measures in that area, As
a trial, two units, leach consisting of a vehicle, a water tank sprayer, and
auxiliary equipment, would be purchased in PY 3. In addition, the Past:)ral
Service, through education and example, would enlist the help of the lo::al
population in fire control.



- 13 -
4.10      In order to combat desertification and to provide supplementary
feed, the Pastoral Service would promote the planting of fodder trees and
shrubs (Annex 4, Table 2), making use of the transport provided for fire-
control. Saplings would be provided free of charge and, to begin with, would
be planted around villages, thus serving not only as feed but also as wind-
breaks and for firewood, which would be very much appreciated by the villagers.
These locations near villages would, at the same time, facilitate the protec-
tion and watering of the saplings.  In this connection, ODEM would maintain
close liaison with the Water and Forest Service, and the project would assist
the latter to rehabilitate eight tree nurseries and to establish two new ones.
4.11      Over the project period, the Pastoral Service would recruit a Head
of Service, four Extension Officers, 11 Assistant Extension Officers, 24 Exten-
sien Assistants and 25 other staff. There should be no difficulty in recruit-
ing the staff required. In PY 1, two extension posts and six outposts would
be built; and two further posts and two outposts would be built in PY 3 (Map).
Vehicles would be provided, and horses for some outposts (Annex 4, Table 1).
Animal Health Services
4.12      Provision would be made for a five-year Region-wide vaccination
campaign against rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), anthrax,
blackleg and bovine/ovine haemorrhagic septicaemia (Annex 5). In the special
development areas (para 4.07), drugs, insecticides and mineral blocks would
also be made available. To act as an incentive for their use and to induce
pastoralists to participate in the pasture control programs, all these services
would be provided free of charge during PY 1 and 2; subsequently, and to
guard against the danger of epidemics, only vaccination against rinderpest
and CBPP would be provided free. The collection of charges for the other
services is likely to be difficult, but is desirable in order to decrease
Government's recurrent costs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that it would entrust ODEM with the collection of charges
for animal health services and would ensure control of the major infectious
diseases after December 31, 1979.
4.13      Staff of the Livestock Service operating in the 5th Region, who
would be transferred to ODEM, would be strengthened by an additional 60 per-
sons bringing the total to about 200. Staff schedules are in Annex 5. New
staff would range from veterinarians, through livestock assistants, to skilled
and unskilled workers. This increase can be met from the output of present
training programs.
4.14      The infrastructure and equipment of the Regional Livestock Service
would also be transferred to ODEM, and would be supplemented under the project
by three veterinary posts, 10 vaccination yards and five cattle dips (Map);
needed transport, veterinary and laboratory equipment also would be provided.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that it would
transfer to ODEM no later than one month after the Effective Date of the Credit
the staff and facilities from its Livestock Service within its Fifth Region.



- 14 -
Watering Facilities
4.15      Fifty ponds would be constructed or rehabilitated in the lower
rainfall zones of wet season grazing areas to the east and west of the Niger
Delta (Annex 6; Map). These would encourage herdsmen to delay their retu:n
to the dry-season grazing areas of the Delta, thereby reducing both over-
crowding at the borders of the Delta and friction between farmers and her.:[smen
by preventing crop damage and enabling farmers to harvest their rice at fgill
maturity. Moreover, as these ponds would dry up during the first half of each
dry season, the danger of overgrazing around them would be minimized.  Th,.
ponds would only be located where sufficient grazing was available for adc'.itional
livestock. The siting of new ponds would be agreed between the Government. and
IDA (para 4.17), on the basis of criteria given in Annex 6.
4.16      The ponds would be constructed and maintained by the Rural Engir.eer-
ing Department, of the Ministry of Production, with heavy equipment and stpar-
visory staff financed by the African Development Bank. Pond maintenance costs
are high, as every 5th year or so about 1,000 m3 of earth must be excavated
from each pond; funds for pond maintenance in PY 5 are included in project:
costs.
4.17      Seventy wells would be provided in the areas with higher rainfall
(Annex 6; Map). Ten of these would be west of the Delta, to guarantee water
supplies along traditional cattle routes; and 60 in the Seno Mango, a distinct
socioeconomic unit of nearly 500,000 ha of good rangeland which, at present,
is only very lightly grazed, due to lack of watering facilities. The location
of the wells and the timing of their construction would be carefully plannec.
and controlled. During negotiations assurance was obtained that the first
season's well construction program, and the entire pond construction pro-
gram would be preceded by a plan of action acceptable to IDA, and that the
Government shall cause O)DEM not to proceed with the second and third seasoni's
well construction programs until the Government, IDA and ODEM shall have re-
viewed the results of grazing control around the wells constructed during L:he
preceding well construct:ion season(s).
4.18      Forty wells would be built by contractors for which ODEM, in col:lai-
oration with the Hydraulic Service of the Ministry of Public Works would pire-
pare the bidding documents; and 30 wells would be built on force account bl;
the Hydraulic Service with equipment financed under the project.
4.19      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government;
that it would cause all project financed ponds and wells to be maintained
properly.
Abattoir and Hide-Drying Facilities
4.20      The project would provide for the construction and operation by
ODEM of a simple municipal abattoir and hide-drying facilities to replace
the existing two primitive abattoirs of Mopti and Sevare (Annex 7). The



- 15 -
replacement of the Mopti abattoir is particularly desirable as it pollutes
the large stagnant lagoon of this town. The new facilities would be 15 km from
Mopti and about 1 km south of Sevare, the nearest site not flooded during the
rainy season; they would be on the all-weather Mopti-Bamako highway, and only
1 km from Mopti airport. The abattoir would meet modern standards of hygiene
and would be able to slaughter 48 cattle and 100 sheep and goats per day. The
hide-drying facility would have sufficient capacity to dry the daily output
of hides and skins from the abattoir. Animals would be slaughtered by
abattoir employees and carcasses and edible by-products would be delivered by
the abattoir to butcher shops. Slaughter fees of about MF 2,000 per head of
cattle and MF 350 per smallstock would be charged to make the facilities
financially self supporting. These fees are about five times higher than
the current slaughter taxes, and represent 5-10% of the value of the animals;
but they would be acceptable to the butchers because they are anxious to reduce
the significant losses arising from the present inadequate facilities.
4.21      ODEM would employ consultants to prepare detailed plans and
tender documents for the facilities. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the consultants and their terms of reference and conditions
of employment would be acceptable to IDA. Construction would begin at the
end of PY 1, be completed by the end of PY 2, and be supervised by the Rural
Engineering Department. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that: (i) no slaughter would be licensed within the Mopti-Sevare
municipality except at the abattoir to be constructed under the project;
(ii) ODaM would be allowed to levy economic slaughter fees in this abatto4r;
and (iii) the municipality would renounce the slaughter taxes presently levied.
Livestock Markets
4.22      There are no properly equipped and organized livestock markets in
the 5th Region. Improvements are needed in order to develop competitive
trading, encourage pastoralists to sell surplus cattle and, at the same time,
provide an incentive for settlement in the area. ODEM would, therefore,
construct and operate five livestock markets. Details of these markets are
in Annex 8 and their location is shown on the attached map. Each market
would operate one day a week and their capacity would range from 400 - 800
head of cattle and from 1,000 - 1,200 head of smallstock. Market fees,
MF 150 per cattle and MF 50 per-smallstock, would guarantee the financial
independence of these markets. Cattle owners would be willing to pay these
fees in return for access to both physical facilities such as watered paddocks,
and to more competitive buyers from which a better price could be expected.
The Rural Engineering Department would prepare the plans for the simple
facilities required, and would supervise their construction.
Mopti Trial Station
4.23      As current research and trial programs on livestock production in
both Mali and elsewhere in West Africa are largely irrelevant to the unique
problems of the Niger Delta and other seasonally inundated areas in West
Africa, a 150-ha trial station for fodder and livestock studies (Annex 9)
would be established 8 km north of Mopti to: (a) determine methods to



- 16 -
protect, regenerate and improve the productivity of the pastures of the
Central Delta, (b) establish the economics of different fattening techn>.ques,
and (c) develop methods for the control of parasites and insects. Techiiiques
worked out in the station would be tested in two nearby villages.  The :tation
would be operated by ODEM in close coordination with IER (Institut d'Ec4:,nomie
Rural) and would also have the possibility of calling on ILCA and ILRAD as
needed.
4.24      Dike construction and preparation of 50 ha for irrigation and
simulated flooding regimes at the station, financed under IDA's Drought
Relief Fund Project, already have been carried out. The proposed project
would finance buildings and construction, equipment and livestock, and
running costs of the station over the five-year disbursement period. Tha
Rural Engineering Department would elaborate plans and tender documents Ec,r
the station and would supervise the construction works. During negotiat:Lcns,
assurances were obtained that the plans and specifications for the establish-
ment of the station and its annual work program for the five-year disbursement
period would be acceptable to IDA.
Personnel Training and Functional Literac_ Programs
4.25      Although training in livestock production in Mali is of a high
standard and can meet the recruitment needs of the project, some additional
specialized training would be needed for ODEM's medium and lower grade
technical staff, particularly in extension methods and range management.
The project would finance four-month courses in these subjects -- for 30
participants in PY 1 a:nd PY 2 and for 20 participants in PY 3, PY 4 and P' 5
-- using existing facilities of the National Livestock Research Center at
Sotuba (Annex 10). There would also be: (a) a 2-3 day seminar for all
project staff in Mopti once a year at which the project's progress and
future work programs would be reviewed: (b) six two-month fellowships for
senior ODEM staff to vi.sit livestock projects in other parts of Africa; an.d
(c) four man-years of overseas training, mainly in development planning ard
management, for four Marlian graduates.
4.26      To reinforce the impact of the training programs under the projec:,
functional literacy would be organized under arrangements similar to those
in the Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit 491-MLI). The Pastoral
Service would, with the aid of the National Functional Literacy Center,
design, develoo and evaluate a functional literacy program for pastoralisti;
which would be the first of its kind in West Africa. To this end, the
Pastoral Service would identify and set up approximately twenty functional
literacy groups which would be instructed by specially trained cattle owners
selected by the Service., using materials developed in the local language,
Peuhl.  At the end of the course, the participants' comDrehension and appl:.ca-
tion of the new procedures introduced by the Pastoral Service would be assi-ssed
and compared with those of a control group of illiterate pastoralists in the
Project.  The cost of a specialist in functional literacy has been includec
in the budget of ODEM tcgether with other costs pertaining to the design arid
development of materials and the initial operation of the functional literacir



- 17 -
groups. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would cause the National Functional Literacy Service to make avail-
able, no later than one year after the Effective Date of the Credit, to ODEM
an experienced and qualified officer.
Preparation of a Second-Phase Project
4.27      Areas in which the full package of grazing control, water develop-
ment and veterinary services would be provided would cover only about 20% of
the 5th Region.  Thus, one of the main tasks of ODEM would be to assist IER
to elaborate, with the assistance of specialized consultants as required,
investment proposals for the whole of the 5th Region in the form of a Regional
Livestock Development Plan (Annex 11) to be implemented under a second-phase
project. For this purpose, the Region would be divided into "development
areas", and the main emphasis of the Development Plan would be the achievement
of better utilization of the rich pastures of the Delta. A tentative list of
development areas is given in Annex 1, Chart 1. Most could be developed like
the Seno Mango area, since they have reliable dry-season grazing; in other
cases the herds would need to obtain assured access to a designated dry-season
grazing area in the Delta.  All "development areas", however, should have in
common that they were intertribally acceptable, fitted into the present land
use pattern, and contain sufficient watering points. The Regional Livestock
Development Plan would draw from the experience gained during the project and
thus it is important that the progress and achievements of this project be
properly monitored. To that effect, the Government would cause IER to prepare
a program to monitor the project to be submitted to IDA for approval no later
than one year after Credit Effectiveness, and to make a livestock specialist
permanently available for monitoring and evaluating the project. Appropriate
assurances were obtained during negotiations.
4.28      Many innovations would be tested and developed in the proposed
project, which would be carried out, initially at least, in a climate of
uncertainty as to how the pastoralists will respond. For this reason, the
project should be thoroughly reviewed after about three years experience.
Any necessary modifications would be introduced into the ongoing project and
incorporated into the second-phase project. The second project could then
be appraised in PY 4 and start in PY 5, thus facilitating the continuity of
the program.
C. Organization and Management
Organization
4.29      The Operation de Developpement de l'Elevage de la Region de Mopti
(ODEM) would be a branch of the Ministry of Production responsible for all
livestock development in the 5th Region and for the execution of the proposed
project. ODEM would be headquartered at Mopti-Sevare, and the Rural Engineer-
ing Department would prepare the plans, specifications and bidding documents



- 18 -
for ODEM's headquarters and staff houses and supervise their construction.
ODEM would have legal authority to grant user rights to grazing lands and
watering facilities to pastoral groups in this Region, to issue and eiiforce
grazing control regulations (paras. 4.07-4.08), and to prescribe cond:.tions
for their use. It would be a Condition of Credit Effectiveness that I)DEM
had been established with responsibilities and powers acceptable to I;;DA.
Staffing
4.30      ODEM  would employ 12 senior staff and by PY 5 about 500 support
staff. It would be headed by a Director and would include (Annex 3; Chart):
(a)  Field Services, comprising the Pastoral Service, the
Animal Health Service and the Livestock Marketing
and Processing Service, each under a Head of Service;
(b) the Mopti Trial Station, headed by a Livestock Research
Officer assisted by a Pasture Agronomist;
(c) a Planning and Range Management Unit, consisting of a
Community Development Officer, a Livestock Economist,
a Range Management Officer, and a Water Development
Officer, and headed by one of ODEM's Deputy Directors;
and
(d) an Administ:rative and General Service, under an
Administrative Officer.
4.31      The terms of reference of ODEM's 12 senior staff (listed above)
are at Annex 14. As it is unlikely that qualified and experienced Malianas
would be available to fill all the senior posts, expatriates would proba.ly
have to be recruited for at least the following: Deputy Director, Range
Management Officer, Water Development Officer, and Pasture Agronomist.
Eighteen man-months of consultant services to be employed in preparation of
the Regional Livestock Development Plan to be implemented under a second-phase
project would also be provided under the project (para 4.27 and Annex 11).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that tl:e
qualifications, experience and terms of reference of the project's 12 sellior
staff and the consultants would be acceptable to IDA, and that it would callse
ODEM to employ, no later than October 15, 1975, eight senior staff. It would
be a Condition of Effectiverness that the Director, two Deputy Directors aad
an Administrative Officer had been employed by ODEM.
4.32      Training Malians to replace expatriate staff would be an important
function of the latter., Malians would not be appointed as counterparts t,-:
expatriates, but would hold posts with specific responsibilities.  Promotion
to succeed an expatriate would be contingent upon acquisition of approprizta
experience during project implementation. The timetable for the replacemen:
of expatriate personnel would be along the lines of the schedule of Annex 3.



- 19 -
D. Accounts and Audit
4.33           ODEM would keep records consistent with sound accounting practices
and adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition, and would
employ independent and qualified auditors. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (a) ODEM would appoint auditors acceptable to IDA; (b)
copies of ODEM's audited accounts and of the auditor's report thereon would
be submitted to IDA within five months of the end of each financial year;
and (c) the report of the auditors would be of such scope and in such detail
as IDA may reasonably request.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01           Total project costs for the five-year disbursement period, 1975-79,
are estimated at US$17.3 million, including a foreign exchange component
of US$9.0 million. The costs are detailed in Annexes 15 and 16, and summarized
below:
StMl.ORY OF PROJECT COSTS
Percent        Percent
of Total       For-ign
Local  Foreign       Total        Local    Foreisn   Total       Base Cost      Excrange
(1WF Billion)                    (US$ Million)
ODEM Headquarters                 .46     .62           1.08        1.03     1.38        2.41       19.8            57
ODEM Pastoral Service             .44     .22            .66         .97      .50        1.47       12.0            34
ODE?! Aninial liealth Services    .91     .52           1.43        2.03     1.15        3.18       26.0            36
Ponds and Wells                   .45    1.09           1.54         .99      2.42       3.41       28.0            71
Niopti Abattoir                   .10     .07            .17         .22       .16        .38        3.2            L2
Livestocl. Markets                .07     .05            .12          .16      .11         .27       2.3            40
Mopti Trial Station               .22      .23           .45         .49       .51       1.00         8.2           51
T ra_ino                          .01     .02            .03         .03       .03       .06         0.5            58
Total Base Cost                  2.66    2.82           5.48        5.92     6.26       12.18      100.0            51
Physical Contigencies             .08     .19            .27         .18       .43        .61        5.0            70
Fxpected Price Increases         1.00    1.03           2.03        2.21     2.30        4.51       37.0            51
Subtotal                 1.08    1.22          2.30         2.39     2.73        5.12       42.0           53
TOTAL PROJECT COST               3.74    4.04           7.78        8.31     8.99       17.30        -              52



- 20 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on prices ruling at the beginning Df 1974.
Physical contingencies include: 5% for the construction of the Mopti abattoir
and hide-drying facilities and for the livestock markets; 10% for the con-
struction and maintenance of ponds, and for preparatory work on well construc--
tion; and 20% for well construction.  The physical contingency for we.>ls is
large because it is not possible to estimate accurately the depth of ':he
wells, the amount of rock to be excavated, or the number of dry wells,
Expected price increases have been calculated by compounding the follcw:Lng
annual rates of increase for both local and foreign costs: for buildings
and civil works 18% in 1974, 15% in 1975, and 12% in 1976 and thereafter; and
for all other costs 14% in 1974 (excluding local salaries and wages which
have been updated following Credit negotiations) 11% in 1975, and 7.5% in
1976 and thereafter.  Total contingencies are estimated to amount to 4Z, of
the project's base costs.  Taxes and duties account for about 14% (abouit
US$1.7 million) of project costs before contingencies.
B. Financing
5.03      The financing of project costs would be as follows (details at
Annex 17):
Livestock
Project Component               Owners      Government    ODEM    IDA    Total
~~~~US $t00
ODEM Headquarters                    -           256          -  2,151    2.,407
Pastoral Service                     -           201          -  1,269    4,70
Animal Health Services             140         1,268          -  1,770   '2,'78
Ponds and Wells                      -           558          -  2,854    _,412
Mopti Abattoir                       -            42         109    233      ':84
Livestock Markets                    -            31         84    157       272
Mopti Trial Station                  -            53         69    882    1 004
Training                             -             3          -      54        57
Unallocated                         60           988        138  3,930    5I116
Total                        200         3,400         400 13,300   17,300
Percentage                      1%          20%          2%    77%      1(0%
5.04      The IDA Credit of US$13.3 million would be on standard terms to the
Government and would finance 77% of project costs during the five-year dil;-
bursement period. The Credit would finance 100% of the project's foreign
exchange costs (US$9.0 million), and 52% (US$4.3 million) of local currency
costs. The remaining 48% (US$4.0 million) of the latter would be met frot
Government budgetary allocations (US$3.4 million), ODEM's revenues (US$0.4
million), and livestock owners (US$0.2 million). Assurances were obtainec",
at negotiations that the Government would make available its contribution to
ODEM as a grant, quarterly in advance on the basis of ODEM's budgets.



- 21 -
5.05      To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project against
the background of very tight budgetary constraints, it is proposed that IDA
should prefinance project activities. To that effect, immediately after
Credit Effectiveness, an initial IDA disbursement of US$200,000 equivalent
would be made into a Special Account that Government would establish for this
purpose; from this account Government would be able to finance project ex-
penditures. IDA would replenish the Special Account upon reception of satis-
factory evidence that such expenditures are eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the credit. However, should any disbursement out of the Special
Account fail to meet the criteria of eligibility, IDA would refuse reimburse-
ment, and Government would be under the obligation to deposit the correspond-
ing amount into the Special Account. A Condition of Effectiveness of the
credit would be that the special account had been established.
C. Procurement
5.06      Contracts for all items in excess of US$50,000 would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. This would aggregate about US$7.8 million, covering: (a) build-
ings and construction, US$3.0 million; (b) installation of 40 wells in the
Seno Mango area, US$2.2 million; (c) vaccines, US$0.9 million; (d) vehicles,
machinery, and equipment, US$0.8 million; and (e) well construction and
maintenance equipment for the Ministry of Public Works, US$0.9 million, to
construct 20 wells in the Seno Mango area and 10 wells west of the Delta by
force account. These 30 wells are widely dispersed in remote areas, and
would be constructed over a three to four-year period. Contracts for all
items below US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are satis-
factory to IDA. Domestically manufactured goods procured for the project
would be allowed a price preference of 15% (or the level of applicable import
duty, whichever is lower) over foreign goods; and for civil works, domestic
contractors would be granted a 7.5% preference over foreign contractors. The
services of expatriate staff and consultants (US$0.8 million) would be ob-
tained according to procedures acceptable to IDA. The construction and/or
rehabilitation of 50 ponds, widely dispersed in remote areas, would be carried
out by the Rural Engineering Department by force account, at a cost of US$0.8
million.
D. Disbursement
5.07      The IDA Credit would be disbursed over five years to cover:
(a) 95% of local expenditures for the incremental local staff
of ODEM, expenses for staff of the Mopti abattoir for its
first year of operation, and local training expenses of
ODEM staff -- US$1.3 million;



- 22 -
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate personnel,
consultant services and training of ODEM's staff abroad--
US$950,000;
(c) 75% of total expenditures for civil works (including
preparatory work) -- US$3.6 million;
(d) 100% of foreign or 75% of total expenditures of vehicles
and equipment, and of livestock for the Mopti trial
station -- US$450,000; and
(e) 75% of ODEM's operating expenditures during the disburse-
ment period excluding expenditures for the Mopti abattoir
beyond PY 1 -- US$3.1 million.
US$3.9 million would be unallocated.  Annex 18 shows the estimated annual,
and Annex 19 the estimated quarterly disbursements.  Any unspent balance
would be cancelled.
5.08      Disbursements would be against import documentation, contracts, or
certified records of expenditures. For disbursements against the latter,
documentation would not be submitted to IDA for review, but retained by ODEM
for possible scrutiny by IDA supervision missions. ODEM would prepare and
endorse all supporting documents needed for reimbursements and, where relevant,
attach an addendum certifying that the Government had disbursed its share of
the costs. Reimbursement by IDA would be made directly into ODEM's bank
account.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      At full development (PY 12), incremental cattle production is isti-
mated at 14,500 t of carcass weight equivalent annually, which is equal t:o
12% of Mali's 1970 domestic beef output. This incremental production in-
cludes 33,000 surplus heifers which could be slaughtered, used to replace
old cows, or sold outside the project area, and 73,000 feeder steers which
could be slaughtered or fattened in Mali's higher rainfall areas (para 2.32).
In addition, the project would generate an annual incremental production ,f
about 4,400 t edible offal, 137,000 hides, and 20 million liters of milk.
These estimates are based on two main assumptions: (a) the carrying capa::ity
of the project area, estimated at 1.6 million animal units, would be full,
utilized in PY 6 whereas without the project there would be no more than
1.4 million animal units at this time; and (b) with the project the offtaie
would be 15% by PY 12, whereas without the project it would never go above
9.5%.  Tables 1, 2 and 3 of Annex 12 give details on production assumptions



- 23 -
6.02      At full development in PY 9, the incremental output of sheep and
goats is estimated at 1,800 t of carcass meat, 540 t of edible offal, 150,000
skins, and 3.8 million liters of milk. It is also estimated that the number
of sheep and goats would increase from 2 million in PY 2 to 2.5 million in
PY 9, or by 3% per year (Annex 13).
B. Prices
6.03      Free market forces determine prices of live cattle (Annex 2).  High
quality steers are generally exported at a price about 50% higher than cull
or lean cattle destined for local consumption, i.e. MF 120-150 per kg live-
weight compared to HF 80-100. During the last five years, cattle prices have
increased by about 70% in the 5th Region.
6.04      In accordance with Government's policy of low wages and low food
prices, there are retail price controls for meat in all cities and towns.
Controlled prices are highest in Bamako, where they have been unchanged since
1969 (MF 275/kg for meat with bones or meat with bones and offal; and MF 350/kg
for boneless meat), and 20% lower in the 5th Region. Given the increasing
cost of live cattle and operating expenses, butchers would operate at a loss
if they applied these prices strictly. Thus, actual retail prices exceed
controlled prices by about 30% for meat with bones and 70-80% for boneless
meat. Controls are easily circumvented because most meat is retailed in
"heaps" rather than specific cuts, and the butcher increases the proportion
of low quality parts included in these heaps. In any event, the price
controls are not a serious disincentive to producers because they are not
enforced by the Government efficiently; indeed, the level of domestic cattle
prices is mainly determined by the prices of export cattle, which are freely
arrived at. The Government -- aware that existing controls are unsatis-
factory -- recently asked ONBEVI (para 2.18) to submit recommendations.
OMBEVI is expected to recommend that controlled prices be increased to profit-
able levels. Thus in this particular case, price controls are not an issue
of practical importance.
6.05      In calculating the financial benefits to pastoralists the domestic
beef price of MF 200 per kg of carcass has been used. For the economic analy-
sis a border price -- consistent with retail prices in the Abidjan markets
(Annex 2, Table 3) -- of MF 340 per kg of beef has been used for export quality
cattle while feeder steers and domestically consumed cattle have been priced
at MF 250 and MF 200 per kg, respectively. The domestic prices of mutton and
goat meat, estimated at MF 250 per kg, and of milk, estimated at MF 20 per
liter, have been applied in both cases.
C. Markets
6.06      Meat produced under the project would be sold domestically and
exported. The market outlook is very favorable in West Africa (Annex 2).
Meat is increasingly scarce due to the recent droughts, rapid population



- 24 -
growth and urbanization, and the opening up of new markets in Arab ccuuntries.
The strength of demand is shown by rapidly rising prices (para 6.03) and by
steadily increasing exports to Ivory Coast and Ghana. Since the incrzniental
production of the project at full development (PY 12) would not exceeli about
12% of predrought domestic output (para 6.01), it should find a ready domestic
and external market.
6.07      The project's incremental hides and skins production could 4/asily
be bought or exported by SOMBEPEC (para 2.19).  Incremental milk prodtction
would improve the nutrition of about 100,000 pastoral families and neighibor-
ing farmers, and any surplus would find a ready local market.
6.08      Livestock marketing (para 2.15) is reasonably efficient, and as
the project would improve the marketing infrastructure in the 5th Regi1rL,
marketing arrangements would be adequate to meet project needs. Slaugitering
facilities are adequate, since the Bamako slaughterhouse operates at onlly
about 50% of capacity, and the simple abattoir to be constructed under this
project would cover the needs of Mopti, the only large town in the pro: ect
area. Meat is retai.led by an adequate network of butcher shops.
D. Financial Results
6.09      Pastoralists.  Financial benefits to the pastoralists under tle
project are difficult to quantify because of variation in herd size and the
complexity of ownership, and because herds in areas with more intensive project
activities would profit more. However, assuming that the Region's 100,')00
families share equally in the overall benefits, the average annual cash income
from livestock production would be, at full development in PY 12, MF 10C,)00
(US$222) compared with MF 65,000 (US$144) without the project. This estimnate
assumes an average herd of 20 cattle and 5 to 10 sheep/goats per family w:Lth
6 persons.
6.10      Government.  ODEM's earnings are limited, and would require Gcverna
ment to cover annual operating costs of about US$100,000 after the disburse-
ment period.  Because of its financial support of ODEM, the Government's
cash flow remains negative throughout the project life (Annex 21). The
estimated annual incremental deficit, US$200,000 - 300,000, is based on 1:he
assumption that livestlock taxes and duties remain at their present level
(para 2.16), and does not take into account the increased revenues from :In-
direct taxes resulting from purchases of taxed goods by pastoralists, dui to
their significantly increased income because of the project, which are verr
difficult to estimate. The Government would thus be indirectly subsidizing
the pastoralists using the 5th Region grazing resources. Although this c:i1ld
be justified on income distribution grounds, it must be recognized that t.i!
Government's budgetary situation is likely to remain precarious. Therefo7E,
during the five-year disbursement period, the possibilities would be exam 'ned
by ODEM of generating revenues to cover part or all of the Government cash
deficit in respect to the project. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that Government would consult with IDA on: (a) the structure and lcvel
of livestock taxes, after the completion of the taxation study to be carr:leS
out under the project in PY 2; and (b) the imposition of grazing and watel:
fees by ODEM, during the course of project implementation.



- 25 -
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would be the first comprehensive effort to improve
range livestock production in West Africa's Sahel. It would be aimed at low-
income pastoralists, who were seriously afflicted by the recent droughts.
7.02      The project would yield substantial benefits.  At full development
in PY 12, project-induced incremental livestock production would be worth
MF 3.5 billion (US$7.8 million) annually in 1974 terms. Assuming that 50%
of the marketed live cattle are exported, in line with present trading
patterns, foreign exchange earnings would be of the order of MF 1.7 billion
(US$3.8 million) a year, as compared with foreign exchange costs of about
MF 0.2 billion (US$0.4 million). Some 100,000 pastoral families would
increase their average cash incomes from livestock production from MF 65,000
(US$144) to MF 100,000 (US$222), and almost 400 new jobs would be created.
7.03      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 51%
(Annex 22). This high incremental rate of return is due to the fact that
the investment represented by the project is expected to raise significantly
the productivity of the existing herd. Thus, if total (existing plus project
financed) investment is considered, the project is estimated to raise overall
annual return from about 12 - 14% to about 20 - 22%; that is, the treatment
of existing assets as sunk costs gives high leverage to the investments that
would be carried out under the project.
7.04      The sensitivity of the rate of return has been tested:  a 25%
increase in costs would lower the rate of return to 40%; a 25% decrease in
benefits would lower it to 37%. A 67% decrease in benefits, or a 50% increase
in costs combined with a 50% decrease in benefits, would lower it to 10%.
It is, therefore, unlikely that the project's economic viability would be
destroyed by renewed droughts, provided they were not catastrophic. Also,
as meat prices are expected to continue rising in West Africa, the rate of
return may increase.
7.05      Without the changes that would be introduced under the project,
the 5th Region would continue to deteriorate as a grazing resource, as more
and more rangeland would be destroyed by overgrazing and degraded by shifting
millet and rice cultivation. Other unquantifiable benefits would be: (i)
better nutrition for about 100,000 pastoral families and surrounding farmers
through increased production of milk; (ii) more sanitary and more accessible
water supplies for about 5,000 pastoral families; (iii) the replacement of
unsanitary slaughter facilities; (iv) the easing of friction between herds-
men and farmers; and (v) incentives to trade and settle that would be pro-
vided by secure land rights and the development of livestock markets.
7.06      Risks.  The proposed project is risky because it is difficult to
assess:
(1)  the degree to which pastoralists will respond to the grazing
control measures introduced by the project;



- 26 -
(2) the degree to which other pastoralists will be prevented from
encroaching on the grazing rights of participating groups; and
(3) the frequency and extent of future droughts.
Should the grazing control measures fail to be effective, the project would
be instrumental in accelerating an increase in stock numbers, and thus would
be conducive to overgrazing and consequently to the deterioration of rangelairLds.
However, the project would. proceed by phases and on the basis of a developmev,,t
plan previously agreed between Government and IDA; each successive phase would
be undertaken only on the basis of evidence that the previous phase had been
completed successfully and was being managed satisfactorily.  These safeguarc:s
would make the project adaptable to the lessons of experience and would allow,
the discontinuation of activities which show high probabilities of being
economically undesirable. As for the second risk, should participating groups
be prevented from cooperating with the project by encroaching pastoralists,
sound resource management would be impaired and overgrazing would likely resuli.
The prevention of encroachment would depend on the willingness of Government to
effectively protect the grazing rights of participating groups. It is reason-
able to expect that the Government would take appropriate measures to protect
the rights of project participants. Turning to the third risk, the project
area may be affected by two different types of drought: (a) moderate droughts
which may typically occur every four or five years; and (b) catastrophic droughts
such as the 1972/73 one. Moderate droughts are not expected to affect substan-
tially the economic viability of the project. In fact, to the extent that the
project promotes a proper balance between cattle and land, the project area
would be better prepared to withstand such a drought than otherwise. Historical
data show that catastrophic droughts occur every 40 to 50 years. Should this
pattern hold, the project would have been successfully implemented and extended
throughout the region before the next catastrophic one occurs. An appropriat:!
balance between cattle and land would have been achieved, and the region wouldl
be in the best possible position to withstand a serious drought with minimum
losses. However, in the urLlikely event that a catastrophic drought should
repeat itself in the near future, it would be very difficult to maintain dis-
cipline in the project area and to prevent invasion by outside pastoralists;
and as a result the project would be in serious jeopardy. Nevertheless, the
potential benefits of the project are so important relative to this risk that
the risk is worth taking.
VIII.  AGREEENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During Credit negotiations, agreement was reached with the Govern-
ment on the following principal points:
(a) it would give ODEM legal authority to: (i) grant user
rights to grazing lands and watering facilities to pastoral
groups in the 5th Region and (ii) issue and enforce
grazing control regulations (para 4.07);



- 27 -
(b) it would entrust ODEM with the collection of charges for
animal health services and would ensure control of the major
infectious diseases after December 31, 1979 (para 4.12);
(c) it would transfer to ODEM no later than one month after the
Effective Date of the Credit the staff and facilities from
the livestock service within its 5th Region (para 4.14);
(d) the first season's well construction programs, and the
entire pond construction program would be preceded by a
plan of action acceptable to IDA, and that it shall cause
ODEM not to proceed with the second and third season's
well construction programs until the Government, IDA and
ODEM shall have reviewed the results of grazing control
around the wells constructed during the preceding well
construction season(s) (para 4.17);
(e) the consultants for the preparation of detailed plans and
tender documents for the construction of the Mopti abattoir
and hide-drying facilities, and their terms of reference
and conditions of employment would be acceptable to IDA
(para 4.21);
(f) (i) no slaughter would be licensed within the Mopti-Sevare
municipality except at the abattoir to be constructed under
the project; (ii) ODEM would be allowed to levy economic
slaughter fees in this abattoir, and (iii) the municipality
would renounce the slaughter taxes presently levied (para.
4.21);
(g) the plans and specifications for the establishment of the
Mopti trial station and its annual work program for the
five-year disbursement period would be acceptable to IDA
(para 4.24);
(h) it would cause the National Functional Literacy Service
to make available, no later than one year after the
Effective Date of the Credit to ODEM an experienced and
qualified officer (para 4.26);
(i) it would cause IER to prepare a program to monitor the
project to be submitted to IDA for approval no later than
one year after Credit Effectiveness and to make a live-
stock specialist permanently available for monitoring and
evaluating the project (para 4.27);
(j)  the qualifications, experience and terms of reference of
the project's 12 senior staff and the consultants would be
acceptable to IDA, and that it would cause ODEM to employ,
no later than October 15, 1975, eight senior staff (para 4.31);



- 28 -
(k) (i) ODEM would appoint auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii)
copies of ODEM's audited accounts and of the auditor's
report thereof would be submitted to IDA within five
months of the end of each financial year; and (iii) the
report of the auditors would be of such scope and in
such detail as IDA may reasonably request (para 4.33);
(1) it would make available its contribution to ODEM as a
grant, quarterly in advance on the basis of ODEM's
budgets (para 5.04); and that
(m)  it would consult with IDA on:  (i) the structure and level
of livestock taxes, after the completion of the taxation
study to be carried out under the project in PY 2; and
(ii) the imposition of grazing and water fees by ODEM,
during the execution of the project (para 6.10).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit would be that:
(a) ODEM had been established with responsibilities
and powers acceptable to IDA (para 4.29);
(b) The Director, two Deputy Directors and,an Adminis-
trative Officer had been employed by ODEM (para
4.31); and that
(c) a special bank account, for the purpose of funding
the revolving fund, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA, had been opened (para 5.05).
8.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.3 million,



ANNEX I
Page 1
M A L I
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
The Fifth Region
Geographical Location and Climate
1.        The 5th Administrative Region of Mali, the Region of Mopti, covers
some 89,000 km2, or about 7X of the country. It is situated between latitudes
14' and 16 north, in a tropical zone marked by a long dry and a short rainy
season, with mean annual rainfall ranging from 750 mm in the south to 300 mm
in the north. These rainfall averages, however, conceal considerable variability
from year to year. Also, there appears to be a climatic cycle, with dry and
humid periods alternating every three to five years; at longer intervals, there
is a dramatic reduction of rainfall for two or three consecutive years. For
example, drought occurred during 1913-14 and, in recent years, during 1971-73.
In 1971-72, the average annual rainfall was 390 mm for Mopti, as against 545 mm
during a "normal" year.
2.        Under these climatic conditions, the most important and richest area
of the 5th Region is the Central Delta of the Niger, composed of the Niger
itself and its tributaries, lakes and flood plains. This inland delta, created
by the gentle gradient of the Niger (only 4-5 cm/km), is covered annually by
the river's flood. The flood begins in August-September and reaches its maxi-
mum at Mopti between October 15 and November 30; then the water level falls
slowly until March, progressively uncovering the flood plains. Overall, some
70 billion m of water is released into the inland delta by the combined
flow of the Niger and the Bani, and 36 billion m3 emerge at the northern
boundary of the 5th Region. The rest is dissipated by infiltration into the
alluvial plains, evaporation from open water and evapotranspiration from the
extremely thick grassy vegetation.
Natural Subregions
3.        Five major natural subregions can be recognized in the 5th Region:
(a) The Central Delta of the Niger, covering an area of 38,300 km2,
consists of four sections:
(M) The "Livin" Delta, corresponding to a natural flood
plain of about 19,000 km2.
(ii) The Upper Delta, covering an area of 7,000 kmi2, occupies
the southern portion, where the plains are generally
only slightly flooded, and Vetiveria negritana - Oryza
barthii (wild rice) grasslands predominate. Deeper
flooded plains occupied by dense stands of "bourgou"



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(Peub.l name for Echinochloa stagnina) are found in a
few localities (Pondori, Goube, and Yongari), and offer
important grazing from December onwards. Extensive
areas of higher ground ("toggue") are exposed as the
flood waters recede.
(iii)  The Middle Delta covers an area of 8,300 km . On its le.:t
bank, in the so-called Djougol Region, the Niger has numerous
anastomosed branches. The biggest arm, the Kiaka, is bordered
by small basins which become deeper with distance downstream
(Region of Macina). Between the Niger and the Bani, the
Sebera consists of a bourgou style plain. The entire
area is under water from January to March.
(iv)  The Lower Delta covers 4,000 km2. This is a vast and deep
basin, under 3-6 m of water at maximum water level, and
interspersed with a few rare hillocks. The spreading aquatic
plants of the bourgou, which survive here because they are
capable of growing rapidly during submersion, form a floating
pasture which is uncovered briefly from March to May.
The Lower Delta ends in three lakes, Ouallado, Debo and
Korientze, which retract somewhat during low water but
remain precious water reservoirs.
(b) The Erg of Niafounke, occupying the northern portion of the 5th
Region, is an immense field of old dunes covering an area of about
15,000 km2; the Niger crosses this field by means of three tri-
butaries, the Issa-Ber, Bara-Issar, and Koli-Koli. Parts are
inundated but usually less so than the main delta.
(c)  The Bandiagara Plateau, or Dogon Country, occupies 8,000 km2 in thie
center of the Region. It comprises a sandstone massif, lying to
the east of the inland delta, which rises progressively toward
the northeast, to an elevation of about 700-800 m. The north
and east flanks form a straight, high escarpment of about 200-
300 m -- the Bandiagara "lcliffs" -- from which numerous springs
arise from the fissured sandstone. The plateau comprises mainly
degraded bushland and cultivation.
(d)  The Plain of Seno-Gondo-Mondoro extends to the east of the Bandia3ara
Plateau to the border of Upper Volta. This monotonous region,
consisting of more or less deep sands, supporting grassy and
shrubby vegetation, covers 18,000 km2., There is very little
surface water, except at the southern end of the Sourou Valley,
and underground water is often available only at depths of more
than 60 m.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(e) The Gourma, to the northeast of the Bandiagara Plateau, falls partly
within the 5th Region. The massive sandstones of the Bandiagara
Plateau are represented here: notably Gandamia, with an area
of about 800 km2 and an elevation of 900-1,000 m, and Mt. Boni
and Mt. Hombori at 1,150 m. The plains below consist mainly
of impermeable soils which, though often concealed by thick
dunes, hamper rainfall penetration. Groundwater reserves are
poor. Stagnant pools tend to back up behind the dunes, but hold
water only until November. Thereafter, several lakes persist
which are supplied by the high water of the Niger, namely Lakes
Niangay, Aougoundou, Do, Garou and Korarou.
Population
4.        The 5th Region has a population estimated at 1.12 million (at the
end of 1973), or 21% of the country's total, and a population density of 12.6
inhabitants per km2, placing it second to the 4th Region.  Population growth
is estimated at 2% per year.
5.        Ethnically, the population is one of the most diverse in Mali.  From
ancient times, the Niger Delta and the Bandiagara Plateau have supported two
very distinct peasant groups: the Marka, rice-growers and merchants from the
time of the medieval Empire of Mali, and the Dogon, who used to occupy a vast
area but progressively sought refuge from pastoral tribes on the Bandiagara
Plateau. In addition, the Delta and its surrounds have attracted various
waves of migrations: the Bambara, who have extended their millet culture on
sandy soils northwards from the Soudanian zone up to the climatic limits of
cultivation (350 mm annual rainfall); the Peuhl cattlemen who depend on the
flooded plains for dry-season grazing; and the Touareg pastoralists who
frequent the Gourma and the shoreline grazing areas of the lakes in the north.
Finally, the river itself has served as an axis of settlement for groups such
as the Sonrai, who came from downstream, and the Bozo and Somono fishermen
who came from upstream. These ethnic groups are also diverse linguistically
and culturally, and each group has specialties in terms of economic activities.
6.        The population of the 5th Region is very unevenly distributed with
average densities from 5 to 20 persons per km2 (Table 1). With 16 inhabitants
per km2, the Delta is relatively underpopulated, considering the variety and
wealth of its natural resources. On the other hand, the Bandiagara Plateau
has concentrations of Dogons along the eastern cliffs, where cultivable soils
are rather scarce. Population densities on the Plateau reach 200-500/km2 of
cultivable land. Despite the use of very sophisticated farming techniques,
including hand irrigation and fertilization, the population pressure results
in emigration and heavy seasonal migration. However, contrary to what might
be expected or desired, there is little movement between the Plateau and the
Delta; only seasonal migrants move out for the rice harvest or for work in the
cities. The more important migration is between the Plateau and the Seno-Gondo,
which constitutes the "virgin land" of the Dogon. Possibly 100,000 Dogons have
come down from their plateau over the past half century to find cultivable
land in the Seno-Gondo.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Commerce and Urbanization
7.        Commercial and urban activity in the 5th Region dates from tie
Middle Ages, when Djenne, in the Upper Delta, developed as a major religious
and commercial metropolis, maintaining close contact with Tombouctou via river
navigation. Other markets developed with the start of the colonial era,
especially in the Delta. Today there are several small centers, such as Kona,
Sofara, Korientze and Fatoma, with populations of 2,000 to 4,000 inhabitants,
which attract fishermen, farmers, and livestock owners to their weekly miarket
from a radius of 20--40 km, and a few larger markets, such as Diafarabe
Kouskourou and Ombollore, which concentrate mainly on the sale of rice and
fish.  In the other natural subregions, urban centers are rarer:  on t-he
plateau is Bandiagara (6,000 population), while the Seno-Gondo has Koro) (4,000;
and Bankas (2,500). At the point of contact of the Plateau, Seno-Gondo and
Gourma, is Douentza (5,000), the most important population center in the
northeast.
8.        The regional capital and river port of Mopti-Sevare is strategically
situated between the Plateau and the Delta, and at the confluence of the Bani
and the Niger. The old town of Mopti occupies a man-made site within the
flood plain: a site which poses considerable problems in terms of expansion
and drainage, so that most of the new facilities now being planned are to be
set up at Sevare, on dry land, and linked to Mopti by a causeway. Growth of
the combined community of Mopti-Sevare since 1960 has been particularly
rapid: from 8,200 inhabitants in 1948, to 19,400 in 1960, and 35,000 inhabi-
tants in 1973.
9.        Mopti is the commercial center for exports of fish by truck to the
south, and also for shipments of rice and millet to the grain-deficient 6th
Region. The weekly market attracts 10,000-15,000 persons. The river pcrt
is extremely active. Hleavy-duty navigation by COMANAV involves about *T,000 t
between August and January, while light navigation, carried out by motori:,ed
10-20-t payload canoes, handles six to eight times the traffic volume of
COMANAV.
10.       Mopti, being the seat of the Governor's Office, is a focal center
for the entire Region. It houses the regional directorates of the variouis
Government agencies, Government-owned companies, and "Operations" with
regional sector involvement (Operation Rice, Operation Fishery and Operai:ion
Millet).  It possesses a regional hospital and a regional hiigh school.  it is
connected to Bamako by an excellent highway, by the river and by a schediled
air service.
Livestock Production in the 5th Region
11.       In 1972, the 5th Region had about 1.7 million cattle (30% of the
country's cattle population), 2.3 million sheep and goats (20% of the coula:ry's
sheep and goat population), 80,000 donkeys, 30,000 horses, and 20,000 canals.
The majority of the cattle are owned by Peuhl, who account for only 36% oE



ANNEX 1
Page 5
the region's population. Although most Peuhl also engage in farming, their
main activity is livestock raising. The distribution of the cattle population
by natural subregions and administrative units, and in relation to the distri-
bution of the Peuhl population group, is given in Table 2.
12.       In general, the regional cattle population alternates seasonally
between the delta and the surrounding dry grazing lands. The latter attract
cattle during the rainy season, when pasture and surface water are abundant.
The main zones of attraction are:
-    in the northwest:  the Sahel area (on either side of the
border between Mali and Mauritania), Mema and Tilemsi;
-    in the northeast:  Karwasa, Gandamia, Drougama or Gourma,
and the Seno-Mango area in Seno-Gondo; and
-    in the south:  Sanari and Bobori.
13.       During the dry season, the cattle concentrate on the pasture land
in the flooded delta, especially on the"bourgou'. As the water recedes and
this area becomes progressively exposed between November and March, the
cattle herds follow along the outer fringes to the downstream section of
the delta, successively using different terrain levels. Fresh pasture is
grazed in this manner until April. From April until June, the herds are
concentrated in the deepest "bourgouttieres" where Echinochloa stagnina is
still abundant and where pools and other watering points are still numerous.
With the arrival of the rains, the climate becomes humid and insects and
parasites troublesome, the flood waters begin to rise, and the herds move
off to drier grazing areas.
14.       The bourgou attracts also herds from the 4th and 6th Regions. Al-
together, 300,000 additional animals from outside the 5th Region use the Delta,
generally arriving one or two months later than those from the Region itself.
15.       Within this general framework, several pastoral systems have evolved.
The most important are the systems used by the Peuhl. Miany Peuhl, who have
been permanently settled in the Delta since the 19th Century, tend to stay in
their villages and concentrate on rice cultivation, while a small number of
specialized herdsmen take control of their herds. Under this bourgoukodji
system, the herds are divided into three groups:
-    Garti (bulls, steers, weaners, heifers and old cows), which range
A   far from the villages, starting in July, returning for a spell
in October-November, and then moving once more to the bourgou
area;
-    Benti (the bulk of the milk cows and calves), which are kept
close to the villages -- except when driven out by flood water
(around August) or when grazing is lacking -- thereby providing
the owners with milk for home-use or barter for six-eight months;



ANNEX I
Page 6
-    Dounti (one or two milk cows), which are kept corralled under
shade for milking purposes during the rainy season; these cows
are usually earmarked for slaughter.
16.       The bourgoukodji tradition is based on a pastoral code devised
during the 19th Century by the Sovereign Peuhl Sheikou Ahmadou.  The codi.
provided for the organization of herds on the move to and from the bourgcu
into large conglomerates of 10,000-20,000 cattle, under the command of one
leader. Although herds leave the delta in a rather dispersed pattern, they
return along specific trails, following a schedule and precedence that has
been estabLished over the years.  These trails are marked by stopping poin:s
where the herds spend the night. The trails, stopping points, and pasture
areas all have traditional names. The system is recognized by the Mali
Administration and each year there are "annual regional conferences on the
bourgouttieres" to determine movement dates and to organize surveillance.
17.       Unlike the settled Peuhl of the bourgou, the Peuhl of Seno-GondD
and Gourma are seminomadic in the sense that most of the families tend the
herds, at least during the dry season.  Most of them follow the same rhyt'm
of movement as described for the bourgoukodji herds, but their descent to
the bourgou is more protracted. Some, however, do not usually frequent thle
bourgou at all. The Peuhl of Gondo, Diougani, Boni, Hombori, Mondoro --
totalling some 18,000 Peuhl with about 30,000 head of cattle -- graze their
herds in the Seno-Mango during the rainy season and spend the dry season
around wells and villages to the north and south of the Seno-Mango.
18.       With few exceptions, however, it can be concluded that the livestock
industry of the 5th Region is intimately linked to and is dependent on thf!
ecological balance and the efficient utilization of the bourgou. This is
unique among all livestock systems in the entire Sahel. It is also a cha:a::-
teristic of the Region that most herdsmen are far removed from their homes;tad
for most of the year. From this follows an underutilization of the milk
potential of the herds, and a psychological attitude which emphasizes the
herds' social role and reserve capital resource.
The Livestock Service
19.       Responsibility for all livestock services in the 5th Region rests
with the Regional Livestock Service. In practice, however, only an animal
health service is provided.  Present staff includes three Veterinary Officers,
one Livestock Officer, 16 Assistant Livestock Officers, 47 Animal Health
Assistants and 30 Vaccinators. The headquarters is at Bandiagara and, in
all, there are 19 veterinary posts distributed between the eight Circles wthich
comprise the Region. Most Circles have two to three posts though Douentza
has five and Djenne and Tenenkou only one each.  There are 68 vaccination
yards (between six and thlirteen per Circle, except for Tenenkou which has
four), and including dips or spray races.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
20.      Miuch of the attention of the Livestock Service is directed to
controlling rinderpest, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP), blackleg
and pasteurellosis, as is reflected in the annual vaccination program:
1971          1972            1973 /1
Rinderpest                     553,587       509,751          737,050
CBPP                           156,650       130,586          121,770
Blackleg                        66,818        66,008           65,450
Pasteurellosis                  28,009        36,016           16,660
/1   Data for 1971/72 represent numbers of doses used but those for
1973 represent the doses distributed to the 5th Region by the
Central Veterinary Laboratory at Bamako (which now has the
capability to produce all the standard vaccines required in
Mali).
Particular attention is being paid to rinderpest in order to maintain the
effectiveness of the JP15 anti-rinderpest campaign, which in Mali was financed
by FED and USAID. However, even greater coverage is necessary if rinderpest
is to be finally eliminated. The same applies to CBPP. There is also a need
to increase control measures against tick-borne diseases and intestinal
parasites; the latter are especially troublesome in the Delta.
21.       Although shortages of staff and finance have substantially constrained
extension and range development activities, a small staff is maintained in the
Region by the Water and Forestry Service with responsibilities toward the con-
trol of fire and destructive tree-cutting and the planting of Acacia albida
and other fodder trees. For the latter purpose, there is nominally one tree
nursery per Circle, though these are mostly abandoned. The present regional
establishment consists of only two officers (one Inspecteur and one Ingenieur)
and 17 other staff.
Development Opportunities and Requirements
22.       The Central Delta. Theoretically, the available grazing area -- about
1.5 million ha, of which about one third are high-grade bourgou pastures --
should be capable of supporting the total herd of 1.7 million Animal Units
for a period of eight months each year (including the extra 300,000 "foreign"
cattle). In practice, however, the carrying capacity of the land is reduced
by the spread of rice cultivation, mainly shifting, wqhich eliminates some of
the best grasses. In addition, the concentration of cattle over the available
area is far from even. The main overexploited areas occur on the fringes of
the delta, in the most populated regions, where the recent extension of rice
cultivation is most marked. In the west, these include the Region of Toggue,



ANNEX I
Page 8
where the most herds arrive, and the Region of Diaka, through which the herds
from the Tenenkou Region pass; and, in the east, the bourgou of Kounart, on
either side of Mopti. The main underexploited areas are those which are off
the major movement axes. In their haste to reach the best bourgou, thl> herderl
pass by many potentially useful areas, e.g., the plains between Kotia and the
left bank of the Niger, the northwest corner of the flood plains of Ou-o N'dia.
and Sebera, the center portion of the Bani and Niger.
23.       In the lorng term, the solution lies in more rational use of the
'bourgou."  Inevitably, this will involve a stricter division between culti-
vated and grazing lands. There may also be opportunities for the explc.i::ation
of shallow groundwater on the edges of the delta, either for irrigated fodder
or crop production. In the shorter term, however, pending a more elaborated
plan, it would be useful to aim at amending present itineraries and seasonal
water supplies on the western and eastern approaches to the Delta. This would
permit a better.distribution of herds as they move into the delta, and ier,able
them to delay their return to the delta until there is sufficient grazing.
24.       Any longer term development strategy will need to give consideration
to ways by which a greater proportion of the milk cows and young animals can
be kept near the villages throughout the year. This will require a better
protection of animals against parasites and the provision of fodder adequate
to meet animal needs through the year. At the same time, the delta can be
envisaged as a finishing zone for feeder steers: e.g., using grazing coupled
with the feeding of fodder crops and crop residues (rice bran and rice nmiddlings).
The implementation of these last two developments could be of interest not: only
to traditional cattlemen but also to the rice farmers of the bourgou.
25.       To the west and east of the delta, there are different problem~
requiring different strategies (Annex 4).  In the Seno Mango, for exampli,
the shortage of water causes fragmentation of the herds early in the dry
season. Some herds spend the dry season near the villages of Gondo and loai,
while those from Kirana leave the region and head for Bore. Others, fror:
Douma or Okoyeri, hiave! begun to use the bourgou. The consequences are a
division of herds, breakup of families, overcrowding of village wells, ard
a growing attraction of the bourgou. In this situation, the establishmert
of permanent watering points in the Seno Mango -- the existence of adequa:e
groundwater supplies has already been proven -- would permit a semisedentary
setup, at least for milk cows, which could provide a basis for a more stable
and productive system. Mostly, however, the grazing areas away from the
delta will need to be retained as wet season grazing areas, with emphasis
on surface water development.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
The 5th Region
Population Distribution
Geogranhic                                Number of   Administrative    Persons
Subregion        Administrative Unit    Persons I/        Unit(km2)      per km2
Living Delta     Mopti                 )
(including City)  )                   25,000          16.0
)   400,000
Djenne               )
Tenenkou             )
Erg of
Niafounke        Niafounke                 192,000         15,375          12.5
Bandiagara
Plateau          Bandiagara                143,000          7,250          19.7
Seno-Gondo-      Bankass
Mondoro           Koro                     271,000         34,249           7.9
Gourma            Douentza                 113= 000        23,312           4.8
TOTAL                              1,119,000        105,186          10.6
11 Estimated end of 1973.
June 26, 1974



ANNEX .
Table 2
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
The 5th Region
Population and Cattle Distribution
Ratio Between
Geographic     Administrative    Number of    Number of         %         Cattle and
Subregion            Unit          Cattle 1/    Personsl/    Peuhl       Inhabitants
Living Delta   Mopti                 310,000       168,000      52            1.8
Djenne                79,000       101,000      26            C.,
Tenenkou             143,000        88,000      75            1.6
Erg of
Niafounke       Niafounke            450,000       183,000      64            2.4
Bandiagara
Plateau         Bandiagara            60,000       138,000       6            0.4
Seno-Gondo-    Bankass               170,000       122,000      29            1,4
Mondoro         Koro                 185,000       156,000      15            1,1
Gourma          Douentza             200,000       111,000      55            1,8
TOTAL                          1,697,000    1,067,000      40             1.6
1/ 1972 estimates.
June 26, 1974



RALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Summary Description of Development Areas ir the 5th Region (First Approximation)
No.              Area                                     Dencriptior                                                              Development Opportunities/Resuirenents
]          Mopti-Sevare                  Vicinity of the regional capital; mostly in                           Development opportunities constrained by heavy pressure on land; strat-
the inundated zone; high pop':lation pressure                        egg should be linked to the requirements of Mopti town (e.g. for milk)
2           Upper-M- I Del'a             Main inunda-ed  0oT.e, important for both ri-e
cultivation and dry-seasorn grazing                               ) Area critical to the livestock economy of the Region; requires detailed
survey to differentiate future crop and grazing areas and to develop
Lower Delta                  Partially inundated but including old dunelands                    )  strategy for maximizing forage potential
L           West Delta Fringe            Belt of populatior pressure bordering the delta;                      Little spare land, but requires investigation to determine opportunities
largely cultivated                                                   for utilizing shallow groundwater  for  irrigation of crops and fodder
NW Border                    Belt of very arid courtry strategically situated                      Of possible potential for water and range development; to be evaluated
between the Lower Delta and the 6th Region                          ,in relation to neighboring  parts of the 6th Regju
6           Nema                          Wet season grazing area of low and unreliable                        Present land-use to be maintained; would benefit from new surface
rainfall                                                             water supplies (following predevelopment survey)
7           Dioura                        Arid but partially settled area; also important                      Relatively overgrazed and with few apparent development opportunities;
transition zone between wet and dry season grazing areas             facilities for migratory herds need to be maintained
8           sW Dioura                     Relatively underutilised area; arid ar.i partially un-               Requires careful survey to differentiate opportunities for settlement
der bush but possibly of some potential for agriculture              and for holding cattle on migration to the delta
9           East Delta Fringe             As 4, but also a migration route for cattle moving                   As 4
B and S to and from the delta
10          Bandiagara Plateau            Sandstone plateau relatively densely settled by                      To be developed for the resident population; critical area agricultural-
cultivators (also transit zone for delta-Gondo cattle)               ly but not of high priority for livestock development
11          Gandamia                      Outlier of 10; of considerable scenic value                          Primarily for development for resident population (with some tourism)
12          Bore                          Main migration corridor for cattle W of the delta;                   To be kept open for migratory herds, with surface water development
sut also, occasionally cultivated                                    If feasible to hold cattle before entry to delta
13          Lake Korarou                  Area strategically situated between  he delta and                    Requires survey to determine water and range potential before further
Gourma stock routes and grazing areas                                action is decided; could have high development potential
14          Lake Niangay                  Very arid area, but closely associated with Lake                     As 5 (though relatively more inaccessible)
lNiangay and Inundated grasslands
15          West Gourma                   Wet season grazIng area of low and unreliable rainfall;              Present land-use to be maintained and developed by new surface water
integral part of the Gourms  of the 6th Region                       supplies (especially to hold cattle longer en route to the delta)
16          NE Border                     As 15                                                                Of uncertain but presumed low potential; to be evaluated in relation
to neighbcring parts of the 6th Region
17          Douentza-Bombori              Complex area, partially settled, partially grazed and                Requires survey and subdivision before development opportunities/
partially under bush; not greatly used by herds from delta           requirements can be stated; an area of medium-low priority
la          Seno Mango                    Underutilized wet season grazing area on consolidated                Good opportunities for controlled grazing and possibly settlement in
dunes with knowr groundwater  resources                              association with groundcvter  development; requires detailed planning
19          East Seno Mango               Natural extension of 18 but, of less certain ground                  For survey and possible development following development of 18
water potential and less easy to admirister
20          South Gondo                   Area of moderate rainfall mostly under cultiva'ion/                  For integrated agricultural/livestock development: some herds from
grazing: borders Upper Volta.                                        this area are likely to be accommodated in the Seno Mango (18)
21          West Gordo                    Mostly consolidated sand-dunes, partially cultivated;                Presumably agriculture will predominate, but survey and further
is subject to population overflow from 10                            subdivision is needed
22          Ray                           'Higv rainfall" area of the Gondo (700                               (to), mostly  Primarily for agricultural development but perhaps with opportunities
cultivated; borders Upper Volta                                      (to be evaluiated) for ranching



ANNEX 2
Page 1
M A L I
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Supply and Demand, Prices, and Taxation for Livestock and Meat
A. Supply and Demand
1.        Supply.  In 1970, total meat and offal production in Mali was esti-
mated at 146,000 t, of which 84,000 t originated from cattle (635,000 head),
48,000 t from sheep and goats (3.5 million head), 3,000 t from camels, 1,000 t
from pigs and 10,000 t from poultry. Exports, including transit cattle from
Mauritania, have more than doubled since 1960 and reached about 220,000 cattle
and 210,000 sheep and goats in 1972, equivalent to 43,700 tons of meat and
offal, or about 30% of total production. Since 1972, however, the offtake
for both domestic consumption and exports has declined steadily by 5-10% per
Year, and the 1973/74 drought resulted in an even greater decline, the full
extent of which is ncot yet known.
2.        Cattle supply is being seriously affected by the drought.  It iLS
difficult to predict, however, how herders will cope with this situation mnd
its effects during the next few years. On one hand, because of the great
importance attached to cattle owning (para 2.24, main report), cattle ow.uers
will rebuild their herds as quickly as possible, thus selling fewer cattle
than previously, and even selling immature males to purchase females. Oii
the other hand, due to significantly increased cost of grain for human c.)n-
sumption, they may be obliged to sell more cattle than would be expected,
given the reduced hercl numbers. The number of mature males reaching the
market would thus be reduced during the next 5-10 years. However, as Ma:ii
strives to develop its livestock industry and to increase grain producticn,
1985 domestic cattle supplies may have increased by 10-20% over present rullbers
provided new catastrophic droughts do not occur.
3.        Demand.  1970 estimates of meat and offal consumption are shown in
Table 1, this Annex. A total national per capita consumption of 11 kg of beef
and offal, and 21 kg of all forms of meat and offal, made Mali, after Niger
with 23 kg, the second highest meat consumiing country in West Africa. In
addition to this fairly high meat consumption, Malians ate some 11 kg of :'ish
per capita, and thus the consumption of animal protein in Mali was the hijhast
in Africa.
4.        Since 1970, however, this favorable situation has changed, mainly
due to the drought. It is feared that available animal protein per capita
has declined by as much as one third. This decline is also due to a decreaEe
in real incomes, particularly within the Government work force, and to favor-
able export conditions for livestock as well.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        External factors strongly influence the livestock and meat situation
in Mali. Increasing demand during the past decade by West African importing
countries, principally Ivory Coast and Ghana, has led to greatly increased ex-
ports of Malian cattle, thus reducing domestic meat supplies. In recent years,
exports to Ghana have declined due to high import taxes and, more importantly,
the exchange rate changes which worked against the Malian seller. However,
Ghana wants to increase its cattle imports and, with a per capita beef con-
sumption of less than 4 kg per year, remains a large potential market for Mali.
The Ivory Coast, with no import tax on cattle and no exchange difficulties,
remains the most important market for Malian livestock, and exports to this
market are expected to continue to increase. Mali's estimated exports, and
total imports by Ghana and the Ivory Coast, are shown in Table 2, this Annex.
B. Prices of Cattle and Meat
Live Cattle
6.        Free market forces determine the price of cattle.  Animals suitable
for export - steers usually older than six to seven years, yielding 150-200 kg
carcass meat, and preferred because of their better ability to withstand the
long trek to consumer markets -- cost about 50% more per kilo than cull or
lean cattle destined for local consumption. From 1970 to early 1974, export
cattle prices in the Mopti Region increased from about MF 25,000 per head to
about HF 40,000-45,000, an increase of about 70%. Prices of cull cows des-
tined for local consumption decreased from M;F 15,000 in 1970 to a low of
EHF 8,000 in May 1973 (because of increased stress sales due to the drought),
then increased substantially over the next nine months to MF 25,000. In
January 1974, livestock prices in the Mopti Region were as follows:
Category (kg/carcass)          Purchase Price (1MF/kg)
Beef
90                                165-180
130                               220-260
170                               240-280
190                               260-300
Sheep
9                               230-250
10                               260-290
15                               320-350
Goats
10                               220-240
12                               240-270
14                               260-280



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Since 1970, prices for heifers and young breeding cows have more than doubled
(from MF 10,000-12,000 per head to about MF 25,000) due to the intense demand
for breeding stock, reflecting the pastoralists effort to build their drought
reduced herds up as soon as possible.
7.        Prices normally vary by as much as 30% over the year.  This is;
mainly due to changing supply conditions, but also to fluctuations in demand
reflecting events such as Tabaski and Christmas and the sale of cash crops.
Prices are lowest from October to March, due to poor condition of the cattle
towards the end of the dry and the beginning of the rainy season; they peak
in July/August due to the migration of herds away from the market at the
beginning of the rainy season. Prices increase steadily from the Sahel
toward the major consumption areas in the south of Western Africa.
Meat
8.        In accord with its policy of favoring low wages and low food prices,
the Government has controlled retail prices since the mid-1960's. The Council
of Ministers periodically sets official levels for these prices in Bamako;
these prices have been unchanged since early 1969, and were as follows in early
1974:
Price (MF/kg)
Actual
Type               Category                Official     January 1974
Beef          Special cut                       400           750
Boneless                         350           600
Meat with bones                   275          400
Meat with bones and offal         275          300
Sheep/Goat    Leg                               400           560
Shoulder                         350           450
Meat with bones and offal         300          350
Elsewhere, local administrative committees (Commissions de cerele) deternine
official prices; in Mopti, in early 1974, official prices were about 20%
lower than in Bamako.
9.        Given the increasing costs of live cattle and operating expensis,
retailers would operate at a loss should they apply official retail priclts.
Actual retail market prices, in Bamako and Mopti, range from 10% to 85%
higher than official prices:  10% higher for meat with bones and offal ard
30% higher for meat with bones, the most widely consumed carcass parts, ,'0%
higher for boneless, and 85% higher for special cuts. Official prices ate
easy to circumvent since retail butchers have control over cutting standZirds,
and for instance increase the proportion of bones and/or offal in consumer
purchases of mixed heaps.
10.       Government policy is intended to deflate food price in urban arezs,
and in essence it is based on the premise that the producer should subsidl2e



ANNEX 2
Page 4
the urban consumer. In addition, controls can hinder the flow of good quality
animals to local markets, specially during periods of limited supply, because
retailers may hold back on purchases due to doubts concerning their ability to
operate at reasonable profit margins.
11e       However, the disincentives to livestock producers stemming from meat
price controls are relatively low, since there are no export quotas for live
Cattle. Therefore, Government controls result in indirectly encouraging ex-
ports, as opposed to sales for domestic consumption. Government's restraint
in enforcing the official retail prices also reduces the negative impact of
its pricing policies on livestock production.
12.       The Government is aware that present price controls are not satis-
factory. An FAO/ULNDP project (Mali 523) is presently assessing livestock
and meat marketing. 0MBEVI is expected soon to submit recommendations to
Government for changing the meat price controls. OMBEVI is expected to re-
commend that official retail prices be increased to profitable levels.
13.       Although livestock prices are not the most important incentive for
Malian producers (Annex 1), project implementation would be facilitated by
Government continuing its free export policy and easing, possibly removing,
its retail price controls in favor of free market prices.
Economic Price for Beef
14.       Lower quality live cattle, destined for domestic consumption,
command only about two-thirds the price of higher quality export cattle.
Since the project's aim is to improve the quality of cattle, irrespective
of where final consumption takes place and since it seems certain that much
of the project production would be exported, it is therefore appropriate to
base the economic price of export quality cattle from the project on the
border value for live cattle. Table 3, this Annex, shows that the value of
an export quality beef animal (150 kg carcass-weight) is HF 338 per kg of
carcass. To check w4hether this amount was consistent with the price conditions
of the regional market, a border economic value of MF 325 per kg, based on the
December 1973 price for beef in Abidjan's African retail market for meat, was
computed. An economic price rounded to MF 340 is therefore used in the economic
analysis for export quality cattle. Domestically consumed cattle are priced
at MF 200 per kg of carcass, while feeder steers for fattening in Mali's higher
rainfall areas are priced at MF 250 per kg.
C. Taxation
15.       There are three major taxes on livestock:  (a) head tax, which
since 1970 has been MF 1,300 per horse, MF 400 per cattle, and MF 70 per sheep
or goat; (b) duties and taxes on the export of live animals, MF 7,000 on horses
since 1969, and MF 3,500 on cattle and MF 500 on sheep and goats since mid-1971;



ANNEX 2
Page 5
and (c) slaughtering fees.  These taxes contributed about 6% of totajl  ublic
revenues in 1970-72 (Table 4). Together with other taxes and fees (butcher's
and cattle dealer's licences, etc.), the livestock subsector, in a 'rio-mallf
year, is probably contributing 8 - 10% of total public revenues, which is
about the same as the traditional rural sector's contribution.
16.       The major problems facing livestock taxation are:  (a) the d:.fficulity
of assessing exact numbers and ownership of herds; (b) the fact that taxes
are too many and a,ccrue to different budgets (for example, the head tax forms
the bulk of regional resources); (c) frequent and untimely changes in rates
and the creation oE additional taxes (for example, export taxes were more
than doubled in mid-1971, and a 2% ad valorem "Statistical tax" on exports
was created as of January 1972); (d) possible excessive taxation of exports
of live cattle; and (e) the short and long term impact of drought, which
forced Government to exempt livestock owners from per head taxes, the proceeds
of which were replaced by FED grants in 1973 and 1974; frictions may very
well arise once this tax is again levied.
17.       The project will finance a detailed taxation study, thus helping
the Government to strengthen its tax policy for the livestock subsector and
overcome the problems mentioned above.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Beef Supply and Demand
Annual Meatl/ and Fish Consump io2/
5th Region                 National
Category                 Unit       Urban3/ Rural   Total       Urba4-  Rural   Total
Population               %             8      92      100         10      90      100
Beef
Per Capita             kg           9.1    13.5    13.2        20        9       11
Total                   '000 t      0.7    12.6    13.3        10       40       50
Sheep and Goats
Per Capita             kg           8.0      7.5      7.6       7       11       10
Total                   '000 t    n.a.    n.a.        7.7     n.a.    n.a.       45
Total Meat
Per Capita             kg          17.1    21.0    20.8        27       20       21
Total                   '000 t    n.a.    n.a.       21.0     n.a.    n.a.       95
Fish
Per Capita             kg         n.a.    n.a.       30.0     n.a.    n.a.       11
Total                   '000 t    n.a.    n.a.       30.2     n.a.    n.a.       50
1/  Includes offal, but excludes poultry which accounts for 1-2 kg per capita per
year.
2/ 1970 estimates.
3/ Towns and cities over 5,000 inhabitants.
Source:  "Projet de D4veloppement de l'Elevage dans la Region de Mopti";
SEDES. - feasibility study, 1972.
June 26, 1974.



ANNE'.X 2
Table 2
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Beef Supply and Demand
A. Destination of, Exnorted Malian  Cattle in 1970 (Head)
Country                Numbers           Transit Cattle          Total
from Mauritania
Ivory Coast            113,000               27,000            140,000
Ghana                   31,000                    -             31,OOC
Upper Volta             20,000                                  20,000
Niger                   15,000                     -            15,000
Liberia                  8,000                1,000              9,000
Senegal                  2,000                    -              2,000
TOTAL              190,000               28,000            218,00)
B.  Imports of Cattle from all Sources by Ghana and Ivory Coast (]lKed)
Year                               Ghana                    Ivory Coast
1966                              61,000                      101,000
1967                              58,000                      119,000
1968                              47,000                      164,000
1969                              70,000                      172,000
1970                              61,000                      198,000
1971                              58,000                        n.a.
1972                              37,000                        n.a.
Source: OMBEVI.
June 26, 1974.



N A                                             2 I
LTVBSTOCI PRWROCT
m S1PPIX AND DEUMID
Econt6mic Value of Export Beef (MF per Kg carcass)
A. Border Basis
Producer price of an export quality cattle in tbs
5th Region (150 kg carcass weight at 1Y 250/kg)                       37.500
Yarketiug and transport costs to  foptl-Sivare masket                     2,000
lut.rsdiaries fees at Mopt-Sivari market                                   200
DtieLs aud Expenses for expert:
- Patent for ImportEpmort biness                       w
- Export Permit                                         67
- Export Tax                                         3,500
- OMBEVI Tax                                           100
- Sanitary Tax                                         350
- Statistical Tax                                      800
- General Turnover Tax                                 800            6,017
Transport costs frm Mopti-Sivar* market to border
including weight loss and foed &,ring transport                       -W17
Total border value, liveeight
Border value per kg of carcass3L
B. Abidan Basis
Prioe of 150 kg/carcass beef, including fifth
quarter, based on retail price of beef of African                         90,000
markets in Abidjan, December 1973.
Less Retailersk margin (25 %)                           23,000
Valse ex-slaughterhouse                                                   67000
Less: - Slaughter and Market Fees                        3,600
- Transport to Border                              3,000
- fmprter's Margin (20%)                          12N0O
48S,800
Border Value, linmeight
Border Value per k)g o carcass                                               325
Sept. 4, 1 97l



ANNEX 2
Table 4
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Beef Supply and Demand
Major Taxes Paid by the Livestock Sector-
(MF million)
1970             1971              1972             1973
Per Head Cattle Tax
Projected               1,066  (312)    1,194  (312)    1,248  (339)    1,223  (340)
Issued                  1,192  (304)    1,171  (318)    1,213  (337)    1,275  (344)
Recovered               1,063  (266)    1,097  (308)    1,147  (337)          7513/(n.a.)
Ex-port.Taxes and                                                                   4/
Duties                    166              158               342              327--
Statistical Tax               -                 -             n.a.             n.a.
Sanitary Export Tax          42  (18)         46  (17)          36  (17)       n.a.   (16)
slaughter Tax                12  (2)           14  (4)          16  (4)        n.a,   (5)
TOTAL            1,283             1,315            1,541              n.a.
Total Public Revenue   21,559-/           23,610- /         24,5052/         20,22 5/
Total Livestock Taxes
as % of Public
Revenues                    5.9%              5.6%             6.3%          n.a.
l/  Figures for 5th Region in brackets.
2/  National and Regional Budgets; Development Taxes; Highway, Amortization aad
Stabilization Funds; and Commons.  Figures taken from Direction Generale lu
Plan et de la Statistique, Rapport d'exe'cution du programme de redressemelat
economigue et financier 1970-1973, Dec. 1973.
3/  Eleven months.
4/ Data on horses: 5 months only.
5/  National and Regional Budgets and 11 months only.
Source: Halian authorities.
June 26, 1974



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ODEM - Headquarters at Mopti-Sevare
Investment Costs
(MF'OO)
Unit         -----------Project Year------------                               Foreign           Local
Cost              1                      2                  Total              Exchange          Costs             Taxes
No.     Cost          No.        Cost      No.      Cost       7/                %                  %
Buildings and Construction
Administrative Office /1           35,000         1      35,000          -         -          I      35,000
Staff House /2                     16,000          1     16,000          -          -         1      16,000
Staff House T3                     14,000         7      98,000          -         -          7      98,000    (40)   74,000    (45)   83,250    (15)   27,750
Staff House 7_                      7,000         2      14,000          -         -          2      14,000
Staff House /5                      1,000        10      10,000          -          -        10      10,000
Workshop/Store /6                  12,000          1     12,000          -          -         1      12,000
Water and Electricity
Supply /7                                               22,200          -         -                 22,200    (67)   14,874    (18)    3,996    (15)    3,330
Elaboration of Contracts
& Supervision of Works /8                               12,400          -          -                12,400    (40)    4,960    (45)    5,580    (15)    1,860
Furniture for Offices
& Houses /9                                             30,000          -          -                30,000    (40)   12,000    (45)   13,500    (15)    4,500
External Fencing (km)                 500          5      2,500          -         -                  2,500    (40)    1,000    (45)    1,125    (15)          375
Subtotal                                       252,100                     -               252,100            106,834           107,451            37,815
Vehicles and Equipment
Staff Car /10                       2,800          1      2,800          -                    1       2,800    (67)    1,876       (8)       224    (25)       700
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle /11        4,500          2      9,000          -          -         2       9,000
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle /12        3,800          5     19,000          -          -         5      19,0000    (56)   16,688      (8)    2,384    (36)   10,728
Van                                 1,800          1      1,800          -          -         1       1,800
Lorry - 5 t                         6,200          2     12,400          -          -         2      12,400
Motobike                              200          3        600          -          -         3         600
Stereoscope                           450          1        450          1       450          2         900
Cartographic Equipment                                    1,500          -       500                  2,000    (67)   17,018       (8)    2,032    (25)    6,350
Calculators                           100          5        500          5        500        10       1,000
Typewriters                           100          5        500          5        500        10       1,000
Radiotelephone /13                                 -       -             -     7,500                  7,500
Camping Equipment (set)               550          6      3,300          -          -         6       3,300    (40)    1,320    (45)    1,485    (15)          495
Workshop Equipment                                        2,000          -      1,000                 3,000    (67)    2,010       (8)       240    (25)       750
Miscellaneous Equipment                                   5,000          -     2,000                  7.000    (50)    3.500    (35)    2.450    (15)    1,050
Subtotal                                        58,850                12,450                71,300             42,412             8,815            20,073
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                    310,950                12,450               323,400           149,246            116,266            57,888
/1 350 m2 at NF 100,000.
T2 With four bedrooms.
7 With three bedrooms.
14 For senior staff without families.
5 For one accountant, two secretaries, four technical assistants, two cartographers, and one head-mechanic.
T7 200 m2 at NF 60,000.
77 12% of construction costs; includes construction of one 50 m deep borehole at NF 100,000 per m, acquisition of a waterpump with a capacity of
15 m3 per hour and a small water reservoir.
/8  6% of construction costs including water and electricity supply.
77  Includes air-conditioners.
/10 Peugeot 404 or equivalent.
711 Estate - long wheel base.
12 Pick-up - long wheel base.
113 With five sets: one at Mopti, one at Bamako, two East and one Rest of the Delta.
April 26, 1974



ANNEX 3
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECI
ODEI - Headquarters at Mosi-Sevare
(MF' on0)
Unit                                               t-------------------- -------------------Poj-ect Year_----------------------------------_----------------- __
Cost               1                       2                       C                                              5                       6-2n
No.      Cost          No.      Cost           No.      Cost           No.      Cost           No.      Cost                    Cost
Salaries and WaRes 1.
Cirentor                                2,500           1       2,500           1       2,500           1       2,500           1      2,500            1      2,500           1       2,5(1
Deputy Director                        25,000           1      25,000           1      25,000           1      25,000           1     25,000            1     25,000           1       2,1100
Planning and Masagement Ugit
- Range M.anagement Officer           20,000           1      20,000                 20,000           l      20,000           1      20,000           1       2,000           1       2,000
- Water Development Officer           20,000           1      20,000           1     20,000            1     20,000           1      20,000           1       2,000           1        ,0
- Li.estock Econonist                  2,000           1       2,000           :       2,000           1       2,000           1      2,000           1       2,000           1       ,,0CO
- Cornonity Dovelopment Officer    2,000               1       2,000           1       2,000           1       2,000           1      2 000           1       2,000           1       2,000
- Hoad of Marketing Servi-c            2,000           1       2,000           :       2,000           1       2,000          1       2,000           1       2,000           1       2,000
Supporting Staff
- Administrative Officer               2,000           1       2,000                   2,000           1       2,000           1      2,000            1      2,000           1       2,000
_ Acco-ntant                           1,500           1       1,500           :       1,500           1       1,500          1       1 500           1       1,500           1       1,500
- Technical Assistant                  1.300           2       2,600                   5,200           4      5,200           4       5,200           4       5,200           4       5,200
- Secretary                              960           2       1,920           2       1,920          2       1,920           2       1,920           2       1,920           2       0,920
- ClerklStorekeeper                      6100          2       l,200           '       2,400          4       2,400           4       2,400           4       2,400           4       2,402
- Cartographers/Illustrators             600           1         600                   1,200           2       1,200          2       1.200           2       1,200           2       1,200
- Head Mechanic                          720           1         720                     720           1         720          1          720          1         720           1         720
- Mechanic/Mason                         610           2       1,220           2       1,220           2      1,220           2       1,220           2       1,220                   1,220
- Driver-Mechanic                        400          11       4,400          l:      4,400          11       4,400          11       4,400          11       4,400          !1       4,400
- Ltboree 's-ri                          20           10       2              10 t ,600  Il  Z,660 10         2,600          10       2,600          10       2,600          N        2,60C
- Eerdsmen-In.tructor                     20          10         200          20         400         20          400         20         400          20,        400          70         400
- Speciali.' for 1-.nitorln-
n .ro ect                                        I       2.000    O              2.000           1       2,000           1       2,000            1     2.000           1       2.N00
Subtotal                           3,200                                                                99,060                  99,060                  63,_60                  40,560
Consultants
Man Months /2                        3,000           4      12,000           t     18,000           4      12,000           4      12,000
Maintenance
Buildings & Constr-ctious 13                                  -                    10,500                  10,500                  10,500                  10,500                 10,5CO
Kunning Cost of Vehicles
Staff Car /4                         1,500           1       1,500           1      l,500           1       1,500           1       1,500           1       1,500          1       l,50(
Ps-r Whe-l Drive Vehicle /5          1,875           7     13,125           7      13,125           7      13,125           7      13,125           7      13,125          '      13,125
Va- /6                               1,000           1       1,000          1       1,000           1       1,000           1       1,000           1       1,000                  I I,02'
L-orr  - i t /7                      2,000           1      2,000           1       2,000           1       2,000           1       2,000           1       2,000          1       7,00S
Motrhike /3                            100           3         300           3         300          3         300           3         300           3         300           3         31,0
Subtotal                                            17,925                 17,925                  17,925                  17,925                  17,925                 17,9:!5
R.eplacenent
Vehicle- and Eqsipment /9                                    7,060                  8,560                   6,560                   8,560                   8,540                  8,5t
Other Expess-s
OffiMc  Expenses                                             2,000                  0,000                   2,000                   2,000                   2,000                  2,003
lnternal Flights /lO                    40         30       1,200          30       1,200          30       1,200         30       1,200          30       1,200         30       1,207
lire of Helicopter or
Smnal Airplane (hour)                  50         20        1,000         20       1,000          20       1,000          20       1,000
Daily Allowances for
Bamako (11                              6        150          900        150         900         150         900        150          900        150          900        150         900
Po-er and Water                                              3,000                  3,000                   3,000                   3,000                   3,000                  3,001)
Anditing                                                       500                     500                    500                     500                     500                    501
Miscelaneoss /3                                            12,000                   3,000                   3,000                   3,000                   3,000                  3,00(
Sebcotal                                            20,600                  11,600                 11,600                  11,600                  10,600                 10,600
Funds for Livestock Credit Trials /12  30              -         -            Of        3.000         10       3,0O0         10        3X000         10       3,900          -          -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                        152.045                 1684,65                 162.645                 162,645                113,64,                  o7,64:
/1 Includes field allowances and provision for medical, leave and other allowances.
/2  IOcludes international and internal air travel, field allowances and in-urances  forta Geophysicist ( two months), a Water Catchsent
Design Engineer (two months), a Sociologist (two months)   a Demographer (one =onth); an Agrostologist (one =ssnth),, an Aerial Censuer
(sne month) and other specialists (nine meoths).
/3  5% of construction costs beginniog with year following constructionl eml1des elaboration of contracts, supervision of works and
purchase of furniture.
/4  25,000 kn/year at MF' 60 per km for fuel, oil, greens., spare parts, repairs and insurance.
/5  25,000 ks/ye-r at MF 75 per kn for lust, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
/6  20,000 kI/year at MF 50 per kt for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
/7  20,000 km/year at MI  100 per ks for fuel, oil, greas.e, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
/8  10,000 kI/year at MF 10 pee km for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
/9  200 of original cost beginning with year of acquisition.
/10 Mopti-Bamako-Mopti.
/11 For senior staff.
/12 Would be at the disposal of the Mopti Trial Station; based on lF 300,0O0 per farmer for up to 6 feeder steers, covered cattle yard, small
equip,nent and tools, fencing, pasture improvement, insecticides, drugs and minerals.
/13 Includes provision for renting staff dwellings in pY 1.
January 10, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
M A L I
LIVESTOCK PROJECTS
Livestock Extension and Grazing Control
1.        The traditional rules which formerly governed cattle movements and
the duration of the grazing in each zone of the 5th Region (Annex 1) have
suffered in recent years due to increased population and livestock pressure,
drought and decrease of traditional authority. Furthermore, past programs
for improving livestock production in the 5th Region, consisting mainly of
animal health services and additional watering facilities, have failed to
provide any alternative means of grazing control. Yet a balance between
livestock numbers and range resources is critical in achieving maximum pro-
duction from any pastoral resource, especially in the Sahel where the inev-
itable result of overgrazing is rapid range deterioration and possible desert
encroachment. While rehabilitation of degraded Sahelian pastures is possible
through very costly measures such as soil and water conservation works and
tree planting, it is very costly and is no substitute for grazing control.
2.        Grazing control is best effected through a combination of regulation,
education and incentive. Regulation without education and incentive inevit-
ably means largely unproductive confrontation between pastoralists and author-
ities; while education alone produces its results too slowly. Thus, it is
an essential feature of this project that direct investments in water develop-
ment and animal health services would be complemented by an investment in
ODEM, a strong coordinating mechanism, with planning capability and an ex-
ecutive function that includes an extension service, training and functional
literacy programs for Peuhl pastoralists. Furthermore, the release of pro-
ject funds for water development would follow a carefully planned and balanced
investment program, to guard against the possibility that new water supplies
might accentuate overgrazing and range deterioration.
3.        Over most of the northern, lower rainfall area (250-400 mm/year),
emphasis would be on seasonal surface water supplies rather than permanent
water. Since these supplies dry up during the course of each dry season,
there is relatively little danger of overgrazing. Thus, up to 40 ponds would
be constructed or rehabilated in the wet-season grazing areas to the east
and west of the Niger Delta. These are intended primarily to spread the
grazing pressure and encourage herdsmen to delay their return to the dry-
season grazing areas of the Delta. The latter strategy is necessary in order
to reduce overcrowding at the borders of the Delta and the conflict between
farmers and herdsmen which arises when cattle return to the Delta before the
rice harvest. The realization of this strategy would prevent crop damage and
enable farmers to harvest at full crop maturity.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The only permanent water supplies recommended on or near the tradi-
tional cattle migration routes are about 5 wells on the Mema/Delta sto':k route,
to guarantee water supplies when surface supplies are short, and a siml;.ar
number of wells for a potential settlement area SE of Dioura. Precond-tions
for their construction are described in the main text (para 4.17).
5.        The main area for well development would be Seno Mango, an at:ea
of nearly 500,000 ha with somewhat higher rainfall (averaging about 525=i/
year), and a good stand of annual grass on consolidated sand, under a canopy
of Combretum glutinosum and associated species. At present the area is only
very lightly grazed, due to lack of water, and the Government wishes to open
it up as a controlled grazing area. The project would provide for the in-
stallation of up to 60 wells, at an average depth of just under 60 m. It
is not yet known exactly how many livestock are in the Seno Mango and in its
neighborhood, nor has there been any dialogue between the Government and the
people regarding forms of local participation and mechanics for grazing con-
trol. Thus, prior to disbursement for well construction several studies
would have to be carried out (Annex 11, studies 1-3).
6.        To avoid overgrazing, great importance would be laid on the intro-
duction of forms of cooperative groups which give defined and increasing
responsibilities to the local people. A decision must await the outcome of
the proposed socio-economic surveys and discussion with the people, but the
aim, at least, should be to establish local organizations with as much status
and authority as is commensurate with the local situation. One possibility,
as an immediate or medium-term objective, would be the establishment of
cooperatives.
7.        The main purpose in seeking to organize the people into legall'
constituted cooperative bodies, each with defined user rights for a spec:ifted
unit of land, is to generate community responsibility for the management oE
the land and its resources. Whatever other provisions are incorporated
(Government controls, extension services, etc.), there is no assurance of
permanent control unless this internal responsibility is secured.  Moreovel,
until the communities concerned have clearly defined user rights, there i3
no incentive for them to invest time and their own financial resources in
development; and until they are able to invest in the land, there is no g-eat
likelihood that substantially increased numbers of livestock will be forthi-
coming for sale. CattlLe values are such that the sale of 1-2 animals per
year usually meets all the everyday cash requirements for a family, so th:Lt,
unless there is an outlet for investment in the land (for water supplies,
fencing, etc.) the only way of ensuring additional sales is by the levy o:
taxes, which are unpleasant to pay and often difficult to collect.
8.        Although it remains uncertain how exactly the Seno Mango will be
organized, there is no reason to suppose that a satisfactory decision will
not be reached. Provision for the required predevelopment studies is in-
corporated in the project, alongside funds for the establishment of an ex-
tension service in the form of the Pastoral Service. The latter would be
represented by 4 outposts in the Seno Mango, under the control of a distrii:t



ANNEX 4
Page 3
headquarters at Douentza or Boni. It is further proposed that the stocking
rate should be restricted to one animal unit per 10 hectares, compared with
the 2.8 hectares suggested as feasible for the Seno Mango by IEMVT.
9.        Ten wells would be constructed west of the Delta (Map) to ensure
a line of guaranteed water supply along the cattle migration routes between
Mema and the Delta and between the Sahel and the Delta. No permanentsettle-
ment would be allowed in the vicinity of these wells with the exception of
the three wells between Dioura and Kerke. Their construction would be preceded
by a detailed assessment of land capability for settlement and their use would
be supervised by the Pastoral Service applying the same strategies as in the
Seno Mango.
10.       Areas where seasonal and permanent watering facilities would be
developed cover, however, only about 20% of the 5th Region; the remaining
80% is too little known to allow grazing control measures and investments to
be specified at this stage. One of the main tasks of ODEM would be to elaborate
such measures for the whole of the 5th Region. For this purpose, the first
step would be to subdivide the Region into distinct "Development Areas,"
based on a study of ecological and socioeconomic development opportunities
and requirements (Annex 11, Study 13). A tentative list of such areas is
given in Annex 1, Chart 1. Most could be developed like the Seno Mango area,
since they have reliable dry-season grazing; in other cases the herd would
need to obtain assured access to a well determined dry-season grazing area
in the Delta. All "Development Areas," however, would have in common that
they were intertribally acceptable; fitted into the present land use pattern;
and contain sufficient watering points.
11.       The introduction of efficient grazing control on a large scale will
be difficult, due to the harsh environment, remoteness and poor infrastructure
of the 5th Region. In addition, the pastoralists will be suspicious of Govern-
ment interference and skeptical of the benefits to them. On the other hand,
they have been seriously afflicted by the recent droughts and should now be
more receptive than ever to innovations.
1/ Boudet, G. (1972) Project de Developpement de l'Elevage dans la Region
de Mopti (Republique du Mali). Etude agrostologique. Institut d'Elevage
et de Medicine Veterinaire des Pays Tropicaux. Maisons Alfort, France.



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ODEM - Pastor-l Servfre
Ineesttent and OperatiLt Costs
(HP I 001)
-----, _________-___-______----------------_____Project Ysar.-----------------
Unit               1                       2                       3                      4                        5-20                 Total                Foreign            Local
Cost         No.       Cost         No.        Coet          No.        Cost        No.        Cost         No.        Cost          No.        Cost       E5-hanh-             Costs             Tsxes
A.  Isvest-net Costs
BuildinRs nsd Cosctr-"too's
Extension Posts /1                           8,000         2        16,000         -          _            2        16,000         -           -           -                       4        32,000    (40)  12,800    (45) 14,400    (15)  4,800
Extension Outputs /2                         6,410         3        19,200         3        19,200         2        12,800         -                             -                 8        51,200    (40)  20,480       (45) 23,040    (14)  7,680
Wells 13                                    20.560         _          -            3        61,680         -          -                                                                     61,680    (70)  43,176       (15)  9,252    (15)  9,252
Subtotal                                                  35,200                  80,880                  28,800                                                                 144,880            76,456          46,692           21,732
Vehsicles. Horses snd Equiprsent
Poor Wheel Orive Vehicle L4                    3,800         3        11,400         -          -            2         7,600         -           _           _           -            5       19,000    (56)  10,640    (8)   1,520    (36)  6,840
Lorry - 3t                                     4,700         3        14,100                                 - _        _                        _           _                        3       14,100    (67)   9,447       (a)   1,128      (25)  3.525
Fire Control U-it L5                           8,000         -          -            -          -            2        16,000         -           -           -           -            2       16,000    (67)  10,720    (8)   1,280    (25)  4,000
Mlotobike                                        200         C         1,200         3           600         6         1,200         -           -           -           -           1         3.000    (67)   2.010    (8)        240    (25)    750
C;s-piog lqoSpoert (Sets)                        550         3         1,650         -          -            3         1,650         -           _           -                       6         3,300    (40)   1,320    (45)  1,485    (15)    495
llor-es snd Ta-k                                  50        i0           500         6           300         4           200         -           -           -           -          20          1,000             -        (100) 1,000
Sob tot'l,                      9-_____         ___000                                                    2~6_650                   .,4- 36                                                                           6,             13
Total Io-vest._Ot Cos                                                   F                                           _565450                                                                       so -  81.80  110_59  _      5 53    4
Herd of Serv-ic   L7                        2,00           1         2,000                   2,000         1         2,000                 2,000
Extension Gffirer  /7                       1S00           2         3,000         2         3,000         4         6,00G         4       6,000           4        ;.Q7
Ar-sior.t rotesuion Officer  78             1 ,30v         6         7,800         9        11,700.       11        14S3Od        11      14,300          11      - _ *  '
Extension Asslstant  L9                       720          6         4,320        12         8,640        20        14,400        24      17,280          24       .i1
Cle,k/Storslcpere                             600          3         1,900         3         1.800         3         1,901.        3       1,800           3        jf)$n
Driver - Mechsnic                             400          6         2,40(0        6         2,400        10         4,000        10       4,000          10        4,000
l.aborer /Guard                               260          5         1,300         8         2,080        12         3,120        12       3,120          12        3,120
Subtotal                                                 22,620                  31,620                  45,620                  48,500                  48,500
Maintenanre
Buildin5e /0                                           _                                       1 760                     72             __   4,160                    4.160
RssoossL C        V i        nd Horaee
Foor Wh.eel DrCe Vobijl/ Ei                    1,875         3         5,625         3         5,625         5         9,375         5        9,375          5        9,375
Lorry  /12                                     1,800         3         5,400         3         5,400         5         9,000         5        9,000          5        9,000
Fire Control unit  /13                         1,600                    -                                    2 2       3,200         2        3,200          2        3,200
Motobike  /14                                    100         6           600         9           900        15         1,500        15        1,500         15        1,500
Horses                                            20        10           200        16           320        20           400        20          400         20          400
ISolLotAl                                                 l 711,5                  12.245                 23,475                 23,47                   23,475
Vehiclet, U---or-  rd Fquopr-oet  /15      __        _.770 _______                            ,,511n280                                       1280                   '1.20
,enerol ad,stsat,soro                             ____         ___ __ 1.0                         1_500                   2,50      _            2.500          _ _           500
Total  Op,rotiog Coors                           ___                  4T.7.5 _.               _____5 5_, _                                   89,913
TOIAI. lNVESl'1101T ANT OPEiATINC COSTS          _         _             105,765                 134,855             1_41,045                    89,915
Coosists of a steple 100 m2 buildlng  t MPP 80,000 per m2; 2 pots at Di--o-  ad Do.est.a in PYI and 2 poets at Dje-oe sod possibly Mondoru in PY3. Each post is staffed by 1 Natetnion Officrt .od  either 1 Assit.ant Extenelou Offirer
end one Cler1Storekreper (Dioura and D...stos) or 2 Osteooior Aseistants (Dienne sod Mondoro).,  Eeh post has one four wheel drive vehicle, 1 3t-lorry  (eoept Doenoe) and one motobile.
/2   Coiu sto of a arple 80 m2 bhilding er MF 00,000 per m2; 3 port  in Sen0  Mango in PYI; I pot in Seno Mpno, 1 at Kone snd I West of the DNits in PY2; cnd 2  West ef the Dalts is PY3; each  - -tposl is staffed by I Asst-soot fotoniron
Offi0er and 2 Exteosion A-sistanti, with motobikes/hortes as npproprioto.
t3   Wells for remote outposts (sboot 20 w deep).
4   Long Wheel Base - Pich-up.
5   Consists of a  2 t   four  wheel driven track w th a mounted 2000 I water tLok and a sprayer; would also soroe for dliitribtion of Acatia Albida saplings.
76   Includes field allowances cod pre-iaion for medical, lcae and other  lowoces..rl
7   Would be sn Ingenieur des Scienres Appliq-es at ODtl HQ'.s bOth 1 Asssit-st Extension Officer, I Clerk/Storekeeper, I four wheol drive vehitle, I lorry and I motobike ).                                                                                              tM
/8   World bh  Liv-stotk Assistats.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t
79   Wo-ld bh  Infirmier Veterinaire.
10  57. of construction costs of extension posts snd exteosion outposts beginning with year following coostrartion; 2.5% of .o.struction .oass of wells beginning with ye-r 10 folloing .o.struction,
/02  20000 kb/-ear  t    00        kmh for foel, oil. aroase. spare sorts. reo         cod inaurance.
713  20,000 ksa/year at MF 80 per kh  for foal, oil, grease, spare parts, repsirs ond Cnsuranre.
/14  10,000 km/year at MF 10 per kh  for fuel, oil, grease, spore ports, ropairs snd issurasce.
/I5  20. of original root beginning with your of acq.iSitios,
J--osry 10, 1975



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Establishment of 10 Tree-Nurseries 1/
Investment and Operating Costs
(MF' 000)
----Project Year-------------------
Unit             1                  2                  3-20               Total
Cost       No.      Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost         No.      Cost
A. Investment Costs
Small Store                 1,000         8      8,000         2    2,000         -      -           10    10,000
Fencing                        200        8      1,600         2      400         -      -           10      2,000
Water Handpump                  50         8       400         2       100         -     -           10        500
Miscellaneous Equipment
and Tools                    150         8      1,200         2      300         -      -           10     1,500
Seed and Fertilizer            100        8        800         2       200        -      -           10   _ 1,000
Total Investment Costs                            12,000               3,000               -                  15,000
B. Operating Costs
Laborer                        260       24      6,240        30    7,800        30    7,800
Laborer (seasonal) /2           70         -       -          24    1,680        30    2,100
Guard                          260        8      2,080        10    2,600         10    2,600
Miscellaneous /3                                                     1,210              1.250
Total Operating Costs                              9 150              13,290             13,750
TOTAL INVESTMENT AND
OPERATING COSTS                                       2L150              16 290              134750
/1  1 ha per tree-nursery, with a production capacity of 10,000-15,000 saplings per year.                            XD
One would be established at each of the 8 district cities in PY 1 and two in the Seno Mango in PY 2.
/2 During July, August and September, the time of transplanting saplings.
/3 10% of operating costs.
January 10, 1975



MALT
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ODEM - Animal Health Services
Invgstment Costs
(MF'000O
Project Year    ------                                      Foreigi            Local
Unit     Assets             1                   2                   Total            Exchange           Costs            Taxes
Investment Costs                       Cost   Taken Over       No.      Cost       No.      Cost        No.      Cost       %                %                 %
Buildings and Construction
Veterinary Post /1                   8,000    100,000         -        -            3    24,000         3    24,000    (40)   9,600    (45)  10,800    (15)   3,600
Vaccination Yard 72                  1,200      40,000        10    12,000          -      -           10    12,000    (55)   6,600    (25)   3,000    (20)   2,400
Cattle Dip /3                        7.500                             -            5    37,500         5    37,500    (45)  16,875    (40)  15,000    (15)   5,625
Subtotal                            140,000               12,000              61,500               73,500           33,075            28,800           11,625
Vehicles and Equipment
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle /4          3,800                     8    30,400          -      -            8    30,400    (56)  17,024        (8)   2,432    (36)  10,944
Lorry - 3 t                          4,700                     8    37,600          -      -            8    37,600    (67)  25,192        (8)   3,008    (25)   9,400
Motobike                                200                   30      6,000         -      -           30      6,000    (67)   4,020       (8)      480    (25)   1,500
Motor Boat /5                        2,000                     4      8,000         -      -            4      8,000    (56)   4,480    (19)   1,520    (25)   2,000
Freezer (Kerosine)                     230                    24      5,520         -      -           24      5,520    (67)   3,698       (8)      442    (25)   1,380
Ice Box                                 20                    48        960         -      -           48        960    (10)       96    (75)       720    (15)      144
Veterinary and Laboratory
Equipment                                                    -       1,000         -     1,000                2,000    (67)   1,340       (8)      160    (25)      500
Miscellaneous                                                         1,000         _     1,000                2,000    (40)      800    (50)   1,000    (10)        200
Subtotal                                                  90.480               2,000               92,480           56,650             9,762           26,068
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                102,480              63,500              165,980           89,725           38,562            37,693
/1  Consist of a simple 100 m2 building; one at Baye, one at Konio and one at Toguere.
T2 West of the Delta at Doungoura, Gueledie, Dondawel, Gniminiama, Tiekoye, Tohi, Kassa, Diakouri, Kouli and Tamara.
71  Three in Seno Mango and two South of Dioura.
/4  Long Wheel Base - Pick up.
71  Metal Boat with a 25 HP outboard engine for Niafounke, Tenenkou, Mopti and Djenne.
April 30, 1974



ANS'dE 5
Table 2
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
OD0- Anima.l Reslth 3e.vices
Operating Costs
(9W '400)
- -----------------------------------------------rrtjeet Yar_
Unit                      1                        2                         3                         4                        5-20
Operatinl,g Coats                         Cast                 No.      Cast            No.       Cost            No.       Coat            No.       Cost             No.      Coot
Salaries and Wages 11
Head of Service                        2,000                   1      Z,000              I      2,000              1      2,000              1      2,000              1      2,000
Veterinary Officer                     1,940                   2      3,880              2      3.880              2      3,880              2      3,880              2      3,880
Liv-stoak Offi-  /2                    1,500                   1      1,500              1      1,50o              1      1,500              1      1,500              1      1,500
Aasistant Liveatock Offioer /3         1,300                  19         24,700         19    24,700              22     28,600             22     28,600             22     28,600
Animal Health A-sistant /4               720                  47     33,840             47     33,840             53     38,160             53     38,160             53     38,160
Vaccinator                               380                  30    11,400              30     11,400             30     11,400             30     11.400             30    00,400
V oaciator (eseasonl) /5                 220                  30      6,600             30      6,600             30      6,600             30      6,600             30      6,600
Clerk/Stor-keeper                        600                   3      1,800              3      1,8O0              3      1,800              3      1,800              3      1,800
Oriver-MochAooo                          400                  16      6,400             16      6,400             16      6,400             16      6,400             16      6,400
Boat=an                                  400                   4      1,600              4      1,600              4      1,600              4      1,600              4      1,600
Laohrer                                  260                  30      7.800            30       7,S00             36      9,360             36      9J360             36      9.360
SOvbtotol                                                 101,520                   101,520                   111.300                   111,300                   111,300
Maintenaonc
Biildiigo oad Co-struction  /6                                        6,000                     6.300                     8,440                     8.440                     8.440
Running Costs of VeAicles
And Equ ipment
Foar WhAel Drive  eAhiole /7           1,875                   8     15,000              8     15,000              8     15,000              a     15,000              8     15,000
Lorry - 5 t /8                         1,800                   8     14,400              8     14,400              8     14,400              8     14,400              8     14,400
Motobike /9                              100                  30      3,000             30      3,000             30      3,000             30      3,000             30      3,000
Motor Boat /10                           900                   4      3,600              4      3,600              4      3,600              4      3,600              4      3,600
Freerer /11                               80                  24      1,920             24      1,920             24      1,920             24      1,920             24      1,920
Niscellanepus                                                         2.000                     2.000                     2,000                     2.000                     2,000
Subtotal                                                    39,920                    39,920                    39,920                    39,920                    39,920
Repl-a-emt
VAhicles oad Equipment /12                                           18,100                    18,500                    18,500                    18.500                    18.500
Vcacines /13
Rioderpest                         MF     12/dose      1,400,000     16,800      1,500,000     18,000     1,600,000      19,200        800,000      9,600        800,000      9,600
CRPP /14                                  20/          1,400,000     28,000     1,500,000      30,000     1,600,000      32 000     Z,600,000      32_000   _  600:000       32,000
Aothrax/Blaokleg                   "       2/            200,000      2,400        200,000      2,400       !zo,oO   ~         6 8   ,0,0             7T0         80,000        9607 /15
B-vine Haemorrhagic 8eptioaemia "         12/ "          200,000      2,400        200,000      2,400       140,000         480         60,000        720         80,000        9601
Ovi-e H-emorrAhgic Septioaenia            12/            250,000      3.000       250.000       3.000       !50o000         600         75.000        900        100,000      1,2001
Subtortl                                                    52,600                    55,800                    52,760                    43,940                    44,7201
Drugs and Medicanents
Foe Helminths                      MY     60/dana        100,000      6,000        135,000      8,100        127,000      1,620         40,500      2,430         54,000      3,2401
Fta  Liverfluke                           95/             30,000      2,850         50,000      4,750        110,000        950         15,000      1,430         20,000      1,900t
Foe Tryposomasis"                         70/ "           30,000      2,100         50,000      3,500         10,000        700         15,000      1,050         20,000      1,400!
Insecticides                           1,200/L            4,000       4,800          7,000      8,400       i 3,000       3,600          3,500      4,200         4,000       4,000
Hisoaolaneoao   00000 Drug
and Medicaments                                                      1,550                     2, 000                    2.000                     2.000                     2.
Sbhtotal                                                    17,250                    26,750       t8,70                                  11,110                    13,340!
Minoral Olacks /16                   MF    100/black       100,000      10.000       150,000     15,000        60.000       6,000         75.000      7.500         90.000       9,000
General Afdinistration                                                  3,000                     50000                      ,000                                                5,000
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                  248 390                   268.790                   250.790                   245,710                   240,220
XI 7ncludes field ollaoances and provisioos fot m-dical, leave and  0ther allowances.
/2 Wooul Ae an 7ngeoori- des SBiesces Appliqaees.
/3 Would b4 Aasistaet- d'Elea-ge.
14 Would be Infir-i-rs Veterinaires.
/5 S-ven months per yeae.
/6  5% at  -onstruction  costs of Veterina-y Poats and of buildingt take- over (estimatnd at MF 100 million) and 2.5% of co.straction costs of Vaccnation
Yards a-d Cattle Dip. afd of constraction  toke- 0000 (e-timated at MF 40 million) Aeginning  0ith year f1o1oui.g construction.
/7  25,000 ho  Her y-ar at MY 75 pee kA for foal, oil, grease, spore parta, repairo a-d i.s.r.an.
t8  20,000 kA poe yaea  at MF 90 per kr fo- fneS, oil, grease, apare p-rto, repair- ond insuraece.
/9 10,000 km per year at MF 10 pee ke foe foal, oil, gr--se, spaee ports, r-pairs and insaranoe.
/10 500 haors per year at MY 2,B00 pee hoar for fuel-oil (Lxtuitr 3:1), grease, spare parts and epaits.
/11 For ketosi-e and repairs.
/12 20% of original casts beginning with year of acqaision.
/13 Based on prie-  of Dakoe-prod-aod vcaci-es.
/04 Caotagious Bo-ine Pleuo-pn-onto.
/15 Costs enterefd i  this re-taogle are assumed to be ohorged to the Lisi-took  oers.
Tt6 Will be prod-ced in Mali.
January 10. 1975



MM,EX 6
Page 1
M A L I
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Construction of Watering Facilities
A. Background
1.        The 5th Region can be divided into six hydrological units (Chart 1,
this Annex). With the exception of the areas east of Seno Mango and south
of Dioura, the hydrology of the Region is fairly well known. Data on surface
hiydrology (run-off, flood volume, evaporation) is contained in the two ORSTOM 1/
reports on the "Experimental Watersheds of Tin Adjar (Gourma) and Koumaya
(Mopti Region).` Krnowledge of subsurface water varies:  the Dioura region
is covered by the hydrological map of Western Sudan by Roure (1957); the
Bandiagara Plateau is partly covered.by Defossez's thesis (1962); the western
Gourma region is covered by both Defossez and Reichelt (1971), though in--
sufficient for carrying out catchment works without preliminary studies; the
Gondo plain is again covered by Defossez's thesis and also by the reports of
the Mali Subsurface Water Project (UNDP, 1971).
B. Construction of Surface Watering Facilities
2.        Many natural and man-made ponds are already in use in the gra:;ing
areas and along transhumance routes of the 5th Region. They are used diiring
the rainy season and at the beginning of the dry season until they dry Dp,
generally in November-January.  They are much appreciated by the pastor.alists
because they enable livestock to be watered without requiring manpower for
drawing water. Deepening natural ponds by 1 or 2 meters or building sm:..ll
downstream dams is undertaken spontaneously by the local populations.  Deep-
ening of 16 natural ponds was also financed by FED west of the Niger de:tta.
The construction of dams, making possible the storage of more water for elual
investmLent, is economically more attractive than the deepening of natural ponds,
but in practice, the choice of technique to be adopted must be made in 1:enms
of the conditions of each site. Thus, the construction of surface watering
facilities should be organized as follows:
(a) Selection of the site in the light of the needs for water
and the future use of the pond.
(b) Determination of the run-off and volume of water available
for filling the pond, the volume of soil to be excavated, and
1/ ORSTOM: Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Me,f



ANNEX 6
Page 2
of the evaporation; choice of construction technique
(deepening and/or dam).
(c)  Reconnaissance borings (to an average depth of 5 m), including
the examination and interpretation of the cores and permeability
tests.
(d) Topographic survey and planning, followed by the measurement
and staking out of the works to be carried out.
(e) For each new pond 5,000 m3 of earth would be moved on average,
and deposited at least 150 m from the edge of the pond on the
side facing the prevailing winds (for an average pond of 1,500 m2
area, this volume corresponds to a depth of about 1.5 m at
the center with a slope of 1/10). For each old pond about
2,500 m3 of earth would be moved. In some cases part of the
excavated earth would be transported downstream for building
a compacted earth dam.
3.        Under the project up to 50 ponds would be rehabilitated or
constructed (Map):
East of the Delta
-    West Gourma:         up to 15 new ponds.
-    Batouma - Bore:      about 3 new ponds.
West of the Delta
-    Along existing stock routes:  rehabilitation of 10 ponds originally
built with FED funds.
-    Southeast Mema:                 up to 10 new ponds.
-    West of Dioura:                 about 3 new ponds.
-    Southwest of Dioura:            up to 9 new ponds.
4.        The preliminary construction work of the ponds would be done by:
-    consultant hydrologist (3 months in the field and 2 months office work);
-    complete topographic team, with materials supplied by the
Rural Engineering Department (3 months field);
-    1 team composed of a foreman and 4 workers equipped with manual
soil augers and the material needed for digging wells 1.5 to
2 m deep, supplied by the Rural Engineering Department (3 months
field); and



ANNEX 6
Page 3
1 draughtsman responsible for recording the topographic sunreys
on a site plan (2 months office).
5.        The release of project funds for pond construction would be care-
fully controlled in order to ensure maximum benefit and minimum danger of
overgrazing. Thus, preconditions for their construction would be:
(a) The siting of new ponds would be preceded by an assessment
by ODEM of grazing conditions, livestock numbers, livestock
movement patterns and present water availability over the
grazing areas concerned;
(b) New ponds would be built and old ones rehabilitated only
where grazing is adequate for additional livestock;
(c) Each new or rehabilitated pond would be designed individually
in accordance with topography, soil, pasture, livestock num1jers
and season of use;
(d) Pond size, calculated on the basis of rainfall probability
and catchment yield, would only allow permanent water during
two years out of 10; and
(e) Each new pond site would complement existing water supplies
in the same grazing area or on the same stock route.
6.        The ponds would be constructed by the Rural Engineering Depar!:ment,
operating with the heavy equipment listed in Appendix 7 to be based first at
Niono, later at Douentza. This equipment is being financed by the Africvan
Development Bank (ADB). Including transportation, construction with tli.s
material would require an average of 10 days to construct one new pond.
Construction of the 32 ponds in the west of the Delta would therefore :ake
8 months; and construction of the 18 ponds in the east of the Delta wolild
take 6 months. Supervision of the work would be done by the ODEM Watei-
Development Officer with the possible assistance of a consultant hydro;;eologisl:.
7.        Although ponds are cheap in comparison with the construction cost
of wells and bore-holes, they have high maintenance costs as about eve3y 5th
year about 1,000 m3 earth must be excavated per pond. The Rural Engineering
Department would be made responsible for maintaining the ponds.
C. Construction of Wells
8.        Up to sixty wells, 35-70 m deep, would be constructed in the ieno
Mango, and up to ten wells, 25-65 m deep, would be constructed along stock
routes west of the Delta to provide permanent water.  As mechanical pumping



ANNEX 6
Pages 4
or water drawing by animals is too expensive and relatively complicated,
manual water lifting would be used. This fixes the maximum depth to water
at about 60 m, the limit for manual water lifting. The speed at which water
can be lifted manually also provides insurance that would limit overgrazing,
as this system allows watering of not more than about 1,000 animal units per
day.
9.        Data available on the west of the Delta and in the Seno Mango make
it possible to construct wells in these localities without additional large
scale studies. However, preparatory work would be required for the exact
location of each well and the construction program would be carried out in
the following order:
(a) Selection of well sites from the point of view of sociological,
pastoral, and management conditions;
(b) Inventory of already existing wells around the site to be
equipped;
(c) A study of the "dry overlap" (for wells situated north
and south of Dioura) by geophysical methods; and
(d) Supervision of works during construction, including decision
to stop construction works through carrying out radial or
vertical borings and trial pumping.
10.       The preliminary work for construction of the wells would be carried
out by:
-    1 consultant hydrogeologist (2 months field); and
-    1 geophysical team composed of an engineer-geophysicist, an
assistant geophysicist, a Malian assistant geophysicist and
10 laborers; the geophysicist team would be required for 3
months and would be selected under international competitive
bidding (terms of reference, Appendix 2). The geophysical
studies would be carried out only to the extent that one
or more of the 10 wells provided for the west of the Delta
are found in one of the three zones of "dry overlap." The
decision to undertake these studies would not be made by the
ODEM Water Development Officer until the wells have been
sited in coordination with the ODEM-Range Management Officer.
11.       The construction of the wells must be to very precise specifications.
To that end the call for tender and the contracts would be prepared by ODEM's
Water Development Officer, assisted, if necessary, by a consultant. The
following points would be included in the documents:
(a) Wells would be built of reinforced concrete with moulds of
a diameter of 1.8 m. The concrete line would be anchored every



ANNEX 6
Page 5
8-10 m, 0.30 m deep in the soil. In the aquifer the line Di,
strainer-equipped pipes of a diameter of 1.4 m would be l10Nered
by caisson to 4 to 7 m; it would be covered with a pipe of the
same diameter by telescoping the casing.
(b)  Filter gravel, calibrated to the granulometry of the soil
traversed, would be put around the strainer-equipped pipes and
would fill the bottom of the well for 0.50 m. Greatest atl:ention
would be given to the catchment part of the well. In Cont:.nental
Terminal (a relatively little permeable formation), an attvimpt
would be made to catch the highest possible aquifer and to
select a diameter of opening of the screens and the granulometry
of the gravel so as to obtain flows of at least 6 m3/hour.
This yield of 6 m3/hour would be the flow for acceptance of
the works.
(c)  In the Seno Mango, it would, most likely, not be necessary to
strain the wells as the rocky substratum does not easily crumble.
The decision to use the wells with or without anchoring pipes
would be made by ODEM's Water Development Officer.
(d) In the Seno Mango, as some wells reach the rocky substratum,
a decision would have to be made by ODEM's Water Development
Officer whether or not to sink the wells deeper in order to
reach possible waterbearing fissures. In some cases, well
digging would be stopped and borings would continue several
meters with the aid of pneumatic hammers.  It would also be
possible to continue the well by boring with a hammer-drill
a quick and cheap technique. These methods would only be
used in cases where the aquifer is confined, which will
require a precise knowledge by the hydrogeologist of the
depth of the water level. The cost of such additional work
is included in the physical contingencies.
(e) A pumping test of six hours at the minimum acceptance yield of
6 m3/hour would be carried out. The pumping rotations must
be compatible with the future well use.  This test will ser"e
for work acceptance.
(f) The surface installations would include a 1 m high curbston.:
of reinfcrced concrete surrounded by a reinforced concrete
slab of 6 m in diameter to prevent mire and 4 basins of
reinforced concrete with the internal dimensions of 0.40 x (1.60 x
0.60 m, The basins would be connected by stainless steel
pipes of 2-1/2" diameter with 4 reinforced concrete troughs
placed 5 m distant from the edge of the well and having
internal dimensions of 4.50 x 0.80 x 0.30 m. The curbstone
would make it possible to install 6 wooden forks bearing the
pulleys used for lowering and raising "delous" (water sack)
by manual or animal traction.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
12.       Construction of the wells would be carried out by force account by
the Hydraulical Department of the Ministry of Public Works (10 wells in the
west of the Delta and 20 wells in Seno Mango) and by a contractor (40 wells
in Seno Mango).
Well Construction by Force Account
13.       The project would finance the establishment and operation for three
years of 10 teams of Operation Wells distributed as follows:
-    3 new teams at Koro, representing a "sector";
-    1 additional team at Bankass; and
-    3 additional teams at Niono and 3 at Douentza.
Details of the buildings, furniture, technical equipment, vehicles, consumable
materials, personnel costs of these teams is given in Appendix 6.
14.       The expected output per team is 80 m of well per year completely
equipped in soft earth or 60 m in semihard earth or 40 m in hard earth. Be-
yond 50 m depth the output diminishes by 25 percent. On this basis, 30 wells
-- representing 1,520 m in the Continental Terminal and 130 m in the rocky
substratum, of which 240 are beyond 50 m -- would be carried out by the
10 teams in 2-1/2 years. Taking contingencies into account, the project
would therefore take 3 years.
Well Construction by Contractor
15.       It is expected that the construction of the 40 wells -- representing
2,080 m in the Continental Terminal and 305 m in the substratum -- would be
completed in two years. This would require five well construction teams oper-
ating simultaneously.
16.       The ODEM Water Development Officer would supervise the construction
of all 70 wells, assisted, if necessary, by a consultant hydrogeologist.
Operation Wells would be made responsible for well maintenance work, starting
in PY 10.



ANNEX .
Append:ix 1
Page 1
CONSTRUCTION OF WATERING FACILITIES
PREPARATORY WORK FOR POND CONSTRUCTION
Terms of Reference
1.        The areas to be developed with surface water would be selected by
ODEM staff, but an expert consultant in surface water hydrology would be
needed to draw plans for pond construction in the light of local conditions,
with particular reference to the surface topography of watersheds and the
nature of the alluvia of pond-bottoms. The expert should have at least 10
years' experience, not less than 5 of them in Africa.
Description of the Work
2.        The consultant would be responsible for locating sites for pond
development either by deepening or by damming natural ponds (the 2 techniques
may be combined). For each pond site he would specify:
-,   the volume of earth to be moved;
-    the dimensions of the ditch to be dug (staked out on the land);
-    the facilities to be provided for access to the pond;
-    the nature, thickness and permeability of the clayey alluvia
at the bottom of the pond;
-    possibly the characteristics of a downstream dam;
-    the estimated volume of water in an average year, a dry yea:
and a rainy year, with the probabilities of filling;
-    the site for depositing excavated material; and
-    the time required for the development work.
The expert would be assisted by:
-    a team of surveyors from the Rural Engineering Department
who will stake out the ponds;
-    a team  from The Rural Engineering Department for reconnaissalice
boreholes which would carry out an average of 5 boreholes,
1.5 to 2 m deep, at the bottom of each pond; and
-    the ODEM Water Development Officer who would determine soil
and geologic characteristics of the alluvia.
3.        Time Required:  Three months.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 1
CONSTRUCTION OF WATERING FACILITIES
PREPARATORY WORK FOR WELL CONSTRUCTION WEST OF THE DELTA
Terms of Reference
1.        The construction of 10 wells west of the Niger Delta may make it
necessary to specify: (a) the limits of 2 zones of "dry overlaps" of the
Continental Tertanal around the underground relief of substrata north and
south of Sioura, (b) the topography of the pre-Cambrian substratum under the
C.T. around the village of Petal.
2.        The assistance is required of (a) a hydrogeologist with about 10
years of experience, half of which would be in Africa, and (b) a geophysical
team composed of an engineer geophysicist with about 10 years of professional
experience, partly in Africa, and an expatriate assistant geophysicist. The
Mali Department of Hydraulics and Energy would make a Malian assistant geo-
physicist available to the team.
3.        The geophysical team would be provided with the material necessary
for carrying out electric prospecting by the Schlumberger method (electric
soundings) and prospecting by seismic refraction (12-channel apparatus),
inclusive of vehicles, radio apparatus and explosives. ODEM would obtain
from the Government the authorizations for temporary admission of the material,
for purchase and handling of explosives and for using radio equipment.
4.   Description of the Work
4.1       Hydrogeology:  the following would be undertaken:  inventory of
wells, geological sections of wells, siting of geophysical profiles; inter-
pretation of measurements in collaboration with the geophysicist.
4.2       Geophysics:  (a) "Dry overlap' zones: execution of it profiles (each
8 km long and 1 km apart) by electric soundings in AB = 400 m &;ery km.  Elec-
tric soundings with a smaller grid would be carried out in zones considered
interesting or presenting particular problems. After two of the electric
sounding profiles, seismic refraction profiles would be carried out. The
calibration would be done by reference to wells in the area. Number of steps
anticipated: 50 electric soundings in AB = 400 m on a 16 km seismic refraction
profile.  (b)  Petal well:  the requirement is 25 electric soundings in AB
200 to 300 m or a grid of 3 km x 3 km around the Petal well, plus 2 seismic
refraction profiles following the electric sounding profiles, and calibration
on the Petal well and surrounding wells. Number of steps anticipated: 25
electric soundings on AB = 200 to 300 m + 10 km of seismic refraction profile.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 2
5.   Documents to be Furnished:
(a) Interpretation report;
(b) Maps of the substratum topography (isobaths) and maps o;:
thickness of the C.T. (isopacks);
(c)  Electric cross sections interpreted along the
electric profiles;
(d) Seismic cross sections interpreted along seismic
profiles of the centers of irresistivity; and
(e) Isoresistivity map.
6.        Time Requi.red:  Two months for hydrogeologist; and
two months for geophysical team.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
CONSTRUCTION OF WATERING FACILITIES
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE HYDROGEOLOGIST TO
SUPERVISE THE WELL CONSTRUCTION
1.        The construction of wells would take a total of 3 dry seasons.  Up
to 15 teams would be working at the same time at sites far away from each
other. Therefore, funds are included in this project to allow ODEM to draw,
if necessary, for the services of consultant hydrogeologists of different
levels for supervising well construction works. The consultant(s) would be
engineers or technicians with considerable professional experience in hydro-
geology and well construction in West Africa.
2.        Description of the Work.  The tasks to be performed would be defined
for each consultant mission by the ODEM Water Development Officer. They would
consist of supervising or assisting in geological and technical cross sections
of the wells and in the control of current construction works at the hydro-
geological and technical levels.
4.        Time required:  from one week to two months for each mission, as
stipulated in each case by the ODEM Water Development Officer.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
CONSTRUCTION OF WATERING FACILITIES
JOB DESCRIPTION OF THE ODEM WATER DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
1.        Brief terms of reference for ODEM's Water Development Officer are
given, along with other senior staff, in Annex 14. Specifically, he would
be required for 3-4 years and would need to be completely mobile, with, radio
communication both with Mopti and the worksites.  He would in particular
carry out the following tasks:
-    Select the pond sites (with the Range Management Officer) and
establish them (with the consultant hydrologist, Appendix 1);
-    control the pond construction work;
-    establish the 70 wells as the work progresses (in collaboration
with the Range Management Officer) including an inventory of
the watering points and a study of hydrogeological and topo-
graphical conditions;
-    conduct hydrogeological and technical control of the wells
under construction (in liaison with the hydrogeologist and
the well specialist from Operation Wells);
-    interpret the geophysical study of the Dioura region (in coll..bora-
tion with the consultant hydrogeologist, Appendix 2);
-    prepare international calls for tender and contracts for well
construction; and
-    prepare monthly and yearly progress reports containing the
technical details on the ponds, and the hydrogeological and
the technical cross sections of the wells.
2.        At the request of the hydrogeologist and with the agreement of the
Project Director, consultants of varying level would be made available tu:
ODEM to participate in the control of the works particularly while many
worksites are in operation.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 5
CONSTRUCTION OF W4ATERING FACILITIES
HYDROLOGICAL STUDIES EAST OF SENO MANGO
Terms of Reference
1.        East of meridiarn 1025', there are insufficient data at present to
propose surface or underground Ilydraulic development, though the area is one
of considerable pastoral potential. The project would, therefore, provide
for a study of that region in order to specify possible developments that a
follow-up project could finance. Studies to date indicate an eastern limit
of the Continental Terminal between meridians 130' and 1020'; it would be
useful to know precisely the topography of the pre-Cambrian substratum and to
seek possible extensions eastward of the underground structures observed in
the Gondo plain. It is considered that this work can be done by the same
staff that would undertake the preparatory work for well construction
(Appendix 2).
2.   Description of the Work
In the region east of meridian 125', bounded by the frontiers of
the 5th Region, the studies to be carried out would include:
(a) a preliminary photogeologic study, to be undertaken by a
consultant (one week);
(b) a visit by a consultant hydrogeologist to estimate the needs
of water and the Dossibilities of development by deepening
of ponds (note the existence of large ponds to the south
and east of this region) or underground hydraulic works;
(c)  geophysical prospecting on three 30-km profiles 15 km apart
with electric sounding profiling every 1-3 km; in addition
electric "profiling" at a constant depth would be carried
out according to the perpendiculars to the presumed structures;
a seismic profile following the electric sounding profiles
would make reciprocal calibration of the measures possible;
these would be calibrated on the existing wells. Number of
steps anticipated would include: 30 electric soundings plus
5 km o' "orofiling" and 10 km of seismic refraction. Time
needed: 4 weeks for a team composed of an expatriate
geophysicist, an expatriate assistant geophysicist and a
Malian assistant geophysicist;
(d) interpretation of the geophysical measures and the drafting
of a report (three weeks).
3.   Documents to be Furnished
A hydrogeological report with a map of watering points, a map of
photogeological interpretation, a map of the substratum topography, an estimate
of the possibilities of hydraulic development, and a geophysical report with
electric and seismic cross sections.



ANNEX 6
Appendix I-
Table 1
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
.Constructina of Watering Facilities
Investment Costs of Buildings for Well Construction by Force Accot.nt
Total Cost
With 15% Tax
1.  Complete Sector With 3 Teams
Lodging of Sector Chief                                       6,900
Workshop, Storehouses, Office 1/                             11,590
Building for Storage of Explosives 2/                           740
Office and Dwelling Furniture                                 1,725
Total                                        20,955
Rounded to MF                                      21,000
2. Supplementary Building
Hangar for Vehicles 3/                                        2,070
Rounded to MF                                      2_100
1/  224 m2 at MF 45,000 per m2.
2/  16 m2 at MB 40,000 per m2.
3/ 4Lo m2 at MF 45,000 per m
June 28, 1974.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 6
Table 2
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Coi truction of Watering Facilities
Cost of Equipment of a Typical Sector with 3 Teams
(MF '000)
Unit Cost   Total Cost       Total Cost
Item                               Quantity  Before Tax   Before Tax   After Tax (25%)
Four wheel drive vehicle                1         3,380         3,380           4,225
5 t truck 4x4 w/dumper & front
winch 2 t                             1         9,800         9,800          12,250
2 t truck 4x4 w/winch & reinforced
chassis                              2          6,900        13,800          17,250
Compressors 4,000 1 - 7 kg/m2          3          4,900        19,600          24,500
Hammer drills                          4            210           840            1,050
Pneumatic picks                        4              92           368             460
Phase converter with shell             4              25          100              125
Flexible coupling, compressed air   40                31        1,240            1,550
Monoblock drill borers                40              16          640              800
Needles for pneumatic pick            40               2.8         112             140
Narrow spades                         40              11.5        460              575
Pneumatic winches and cables            3           805         2,415           3,020
Casing for lining rings 1.80 m 0       3            390         1,170           1,460
Casing for lining pipes 1.80 m 0        2           320           640              800
Molds for pipes 1.20 m 0                3            520        1,560            1,950
Cylinders 150 0 and 3 m long            2           400            800           1,000
Pipe guides                             3            155          465              580
Telescopic derricks                     3            600         1,800           2,250
Self-emptying cauldrons                 3             35           105             130
Tracted 2,000 1 cistern                 1         1,100         1,100            1,275
3 ton hoist                            4             45            180             225
Detonators                              6             90           540             675
Ohm meters                              2             52           104             130
Safety belts                           15             21           315             395
Sisal rope                           300               2.5         750             940
Pumps and hoses                         4            650        2,600            3,250
Shop material                           1            900           900           1,125
Four wheel drive vehicle parts          1            460           460             575
Truck parts                             3            975        1,725            2,160
Miscellaneous                                     3,500         3,500            4,375
Total                                                    71,469          89,340
Rounded to                                                               89,500
June 28, 1974.



ANNEIjX 6
App nlix 6
Tabl e 3
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Construction of Watering Facilities
Cost of Complementary Equipment of a 3-Team Sector
Unit Cost   Total Cost      Total Cost
Item                               Quantity  Before Tax   Before Tax   After Tax (25%)
2 t 4x4 trucks w/winch &:
body reinforcement                    1         6,900         6,900           8,625
4,000 1 compressor 7 kg/rm2             1         4,900         4,900           6,125
Drill hammer                            1           210           210             265
Pneumatic pick                          1            92            92             115
Phase shifter with shell.               1            25            25              30
Compressed air hoses                   10            31           310             390
Monobloc drill borers                  10            16           160             200
Needles for pneumatic picks            10             2.8          28              35
Narrow spades                          10            11.5         115             145
Casing for lining rings 0 1.80 m        1           390           390             490
Mold for perforated pipes 0 1.20 m    1             520           520             650
Pipe guide                              1           155           155             195
Telescopic derrick                      1           600           600             750
Self-emptying cauldron                  1            35            35              45
2,000 1 cistern                         1         1,100         1,100           1,375
3-ton hoist                             1            45            45              55
Detonators                              2            90           180             225
Ohm meter                               1            52            52              65
Safety belts                            5            21           105             130
Sisal rope                            100             2.5         250             315
Pump with hoses                         1           650           650             815
Shop material                           1           300           300             375
Truck material                          1           575           575             720
Miscellaneous                                     1,000         1,000           ' 250
TOTAL                                                   18,697          23,385
Rounded to                                                              22,oo
June 28, 1974



ANNEX6
Appendi 6
Table 4
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Construction of Watering Facilities
Operating Cost per Year of a Typical Sector with 3 Teams
A. Salaries ana Wages
(MF '000)
Unit Cost      No.       Total
1.  Sector with 3 Teams
Sector head                              960          1           960
Bookkeeper, storehouse man               610          1           610
Masons-shaftsinkers                      610          3         1,830
Assistant shaftsinkers                   400           3        1,200
Drivers                                  400                   1,600
Mechanic                                 610           1          610
Mechanids assistant                     )400          1           400
Permanent laborers                       260          5         1,300
Guard                                    260           1          260
Seasonal laborers at MF 20,000/mo.
for 10 mo. per year                    200         15         3,000
Subtotal                                   11,760
Bonus for Output                                        400
Total                                   12,160
2. Supplementary Staff
Mason-shaftsinker                        610           1          610
Assistant shaftsinker                    400           1          400
Driver                                   400           1           400
Permanent laborers                       260           2          520
Seasonal laborers at MF 20,000/mo.,
10 months a year                       200          5         1,000
Subtotal                                    2,930
Bonus for Output                                       70
Total                                    3,000
TOTAL SALARIES AND WAGES                          152160
January 10, 1975



ANNEX 6
Appendi2   6
Table 5
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Construction of Watering Facilities
Operating Cost per Year of a Typical Sector with 3 Teams
B. Vehicles and Equipment
(NF '000)
Before Taxes         Taxes        After Taxes
1. Vehicles
Four wheel drive vehicle                    950               460            1,410
5 t truck                                 1,210               580            1.790
Two 2 t trucks                            1,700               800            2,500
Compressors and pumps                     2,450             1,200            3,650
Cisterns                                    370               170              540
Subtotal                    6,680             3,210            9,890
2. Materials
4 curbstones                              1,150               200            1-,350
170 m in soft earth                         440               110              550
35 m in rocky earth                         280                70              350
Small materials (shovel, pick, borer)       680               170              850
Office operation                             80                20              100
Miscellaneous                               260                60              320
Subtotal                    2,890               630            :,520
3. Supplementary Equipment
Evaluated at 1/3 of the equipment
of a 3-team sector                      3,190             1,280            L1470
TOTAL                                            5,120           1i,880
Rounded to                                                       l2)00
June 28, 1974



ANNEX 6
Appendix 7
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Construction of Watering Facilities
Construction of Ponds
TyDical Equipment of a Rural Engineering Work Brigade for Pond Construction
I te                                                            Number
Bulldozer with ripper 130 HP                                       2
Motor scraper on tires 150 HP                                      2
Grader 120 HP                                                      1
Loader on tires                                                    1
Isocompactor roller                                                I
Dump truck 6 m3                                                    2
10,000  l  tank truck                                              I
Motor pump                                                         1
Jeep                                                               3
Surveying Material                                                 3
Concrete mixer                                                     1
20-ton hydraulic jack                                              2
6-ton hydraulic jack                                               2
Mobile granulation station 4 loads                                 1
Set of tools for mechanic, metric                                  1
Set of tools for mechanic, American                                1
Set of hand tools for terracing                                   1
Tent for 4 persons                                                 5
June 28, 1974



MAL.I
LiVESTOCK PROJECT
Co-truti-n of we-.iDa F-c111iis
VA,.sssi Vs .utio  sod :jtWt-o  Costs .0 5  PoNds
Cotogory                         0Lth        LInS tCot               I                                                                      3                                                                            Total          fr.5.            __
M.     Cost                No.             Cos                so,          Cost                     No,        Cost           NO.       Cost    No.      Coat      Rist.!nz        L OStS      Osoe-
Hydrologist for Dsigo of Po-d. 1/             Na-/-~th         4,000         2              12.000               1             4,000-                                                   ----                                          4      06.000       52,60          5,7000 
ToOotOphtO-l Wor-Y                            Moo/moth           400         3              1,200                1               400                              --4                                                                          1.600         4o0           960         160
prOP.rOti_ of PI...                           M.o/-soth           40         2                  00               1                40                                                                                                   3           1250       It0           00           la
-Soil Sonolino at P-sd Sit.e.5/                Mts,s              200         5                 600               1               200                -                                                              -4                            000         240           480          00
S.bt.t.1                                                       03.0                                4,660                                                                                                          18.520      13,900         4,720          250
Woo FoOt 0/                        ~~~~~          ~~Pond  5,000  30           165,000              iN             50,00                               -- O                                                               40     220,000      176.000        22.200      52,000
Oooooolon o  foistng  fods 6/             P05t          2,750         7              10,250               0              0.050               -                                                               --                I       27.500      22,000         2,750,       2,750
5,rt'  'Thu. '1                   totth~~~ D-a       900         7               6.300               3             2.700                .-                                                .--                             10       9 000       7.200           90090
Wob.t.1i                                         -             190,55                -            60.950               -                                                                           -256,500    205.200                      25.650      25905-0
00111cof CosrciOWorks  '                                                                  -                                                                         -                       ----  ---                          ---
ttsint--aoot o  Pond  I/                        Pond           0,000                                    - -----                                                                                                             50 5.00   0       5.000   44_000             5. 0050
P'.yltsIConttoooiorIO/                                                               10,0055                            6,595                                                                                         5.900    -       31.15(,   24,920           3,115        i.55
Ta00A. INVESTMENT AND MADSTONANCE
COSTSFORVO  PONDS-                                                                       224,4AS              -77,160                            -                                                 --                    00.00    -        6.5170   287,*70          38,905       34,505
I/  1-,0    -  lot  ... oti-ono  o-d lot -rno- SIr  r    fi.ld all1o-ooc  iod         ......os
2/OnploOaOo,lots topographi.s IOn0   6    oe ftgls.ia0   p.ott,  lsLoi,o  field alostoas   t-aosf-r  f-oflltia..
2/000552 t.an   of the &orel W2agCOa.ft1g flsPetM.st, eso  oo.aOi.aig of . foro..  s.d 1. Ib.--.; 1-.d50. fiead .Io,.n -d traeport f-silitls..
4/  W-ill bo t...troot.d Wy th.  lR ... Itistn  Spton Dp,".   1~             0000.4t .01th the typ. of sqolp".et d..o-lI,d in App*Milz I of th5.  am-.
5/  0002o~  pOt fonPd an M? 1,100 Pat57
6/700 u  pOt pond 01My 1,100 Por n..
7!O  br  -tInstrtod 0t 00 of thO  -0  or ---otod po-d.;  -locld.. cao             --nOt. -nd  -owotitg of 1.900 .3    3y 600 for,3
0/  411  it d0-  by hydrog9~o0i1  ojtf ODEM.
I/ ..tOp,o og t 00 0,000 0   -Hty 4   5  y...s
Of   0, o7.f rOttuttlo it o.d    -sosc   ots..
Jonoory 00, 1975



VNNEX 6
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJEWI
Construction of Wttering Facilities
Construction and Maintenan.e Cost of 70  ells
(YI' 000)
toil                1                  2                     3                  Total           Foreign       F 'to I
Category                           tufit      Cost           Nc         Cost    No         Cost       N.         * .c      No         Cost    Exchange    V1           Tj.es
-c _t --------               Yeas---------  _  _-__
Prepocotory Works
HydroQeclegiut  tI                                   Mau/Month   4,000               -      8,000    -           -          -                    2        8,000       6,400        .us)'
Geophysical SOcocy  /2                                 M-oth       9.2000            2    18,000                                                 2       16,000      12,800      l'. I' l-
Prcooa-tion of Bidding Dcon.eots  L3                                                          -                  -
Subtotal                                                                     26.000 0                                     -                 26,000    19,200  . .20'          1,600
A. W811 Construstiss by Ct-ractor (40 wells)
Prepacation of Eqoipment                                             175          -           -         5        87i        -          -         5          875         660         a5        130
T-raspcrt of Equipmest  /4                                           865          -           -         5      4,325          5      4,325      10        8,650       6,490        860      1.100
Transport of Equip-nt  /5                                             14          -,          -        20        280         20        280      40           560        120          'S        85
AssemblingandDiusaseobling  of Equipoent /6                         460      -                _        20      9,200         20      9.200      40       18,400      13,600      1.841'    2.760?
Earth-excavation with Pisk-cue  /7                                                -           -       -       54,630        -       *4.630              109,260      81,945      '.925    16,390
R-ck-exc.oation with E<plosines  LI                                               -           -       -       26,190       -       2h,190    -           52,380      39.285      <,235       lb8su
Roinforoed Conc-rts Liringg   /9m                                     6i.5        1           -    1,100      69,800    1,!05        f0,170  2,205      140,020   105,015        4,J00    21,005
Sicking iota Soft Aquifor  /10 /o                                   230           -          -         35      8,050         35     Y,050       70       16,100    12.075        ' ,-IC    24,s
Sicking into Rlcky Aqiifr  /11                                      400                      _         65    26.080         tS    2o.,000    130         52,000    39,000         '00      7.80'
Screened Casing in Soft Aquifer  /12                   well         050                                 7 -    5,950                 5,950      14       11,900      3,925        .190     1.795
Scroeend Casing in Rocky Aquifer  /13                  well         850                       _        13    11,050          '3    '1,800       26       22.100     16,575       '<"       1,3V
Blind Coning  tl4                                      wel3          105                      -        20      2,100         20      2,100      40        -.200       1,150        42'        61O'
Gravol for lraocl-ossk  /15                              m            34.5        _          -         80      2,760        80      2,766      160        5,520      4.140         ;50       03'
Pomping-te-t  t16                                      hour           29          ,          -        120      3,468       '20       i.480    240         6,460      5.220         ..5    1,045
Suriacs Equipoent  117                                 well       2,900           -          -         20    58,000         20    58,000        40      116,000        07,p0    . ,n0n    17,40(
Subtotal                                                             -                         282,740               282,585               564,925   423,700       56,h75   84,750
B. iell Canutruction by Forse Account (30 Wello) /8
Ivesct-ent Coets
Buildisgo cod Purnituoe  /19                                                   -       35,700                -                     .                 35,700    26,775         1,5711    5,355
Eqgipiest L2O2                                                                 -      291,900                -                     .                291,900   218,925           -      72.4'5
Opesoting Coste
Wages and Salaries   /21                                                       -       23,600             33,200                -3,201               '10,000        -          ,'.'     4. O0
Vchisles and Matesloin   /22                                                   -       31,500             45,000                45,000              121,500      85,050         -      3b,4>"
Sob carol                                          ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 302,700  78,200       28,200,              539,101   330,750        5   ' 119.28'
SuoervisiaonofiConstruction Werbs  /223                                           -       46,115             24,530                 4 6,775              75,420     52,815        .e15   '3,970
Wll1 iaisteonsne 2'-4
Phynsial Contin,encies   /25                                                      -       83,750              74,640               72,550               230,940   161,660       22,1      4  ,
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION AND
MAIN0ENANCE COSTS                                                                5- 38.565 -                460.110               637,710            1 ,436,385   988,125   181 ,70  266,6'
/1   Includes interna-tioal end internal air travel, field allowances end insurances.
72   Will be -ected by I eupatriate geophysicist, 1 espatriate geophysicist technician, 1 Malian geophysicist Ie-h-.cian and 10 laborers.
Includes transport cests is the field, field ullogansas, cost of necessary small equipment and internatienal and internal air travel and insurance fsr the 2 expatriates.
/3 Will br done by the hydrogeolegist of ODE08 in collabhration with the Hydraulic Service.
14   From  theb-s  ththe ocotrantor to the first well-site and froa  the last well-site te hisbae..
/5   Between wells.
76 O each well.
77   M27 40,500 per m fron 0-10 m depth (400 n); N41 46,000 per m from  10-20 n (400  m); Ml 51,500 per m fron 20 to 300  (4uO i); MP 57,500 per m fron 30 tc 40 n (400 m),
hF 63,500 per n from 40 to 50 m (360 m); 141 69,500 per m from  50 to 60 (110  m); 4F 75,500 per    frosm  60 to 75 m (10 m).
/1    Z  149,500 per m frco  40 to 50O  (10 n); YsF 161,000 MF per i irom 50 tc 60 0  (225 m);  817 172,500 per m frie  TI to 70 m (85 i).
27    o 1,80 m
710    i  per well fer 14 wells.
711 5 r per well for 26 wells.
712 For 14 wells.
T13 For 26 wells.
1t4 1 m per well.
7/5 4 cobic neters of calibrated gravel per well.
tl6 Daring 6 hourn per well.
717  Includes parapet, concrete apron, 4 trowghs (4.5 n x 0.8 m x 0.3 n) and piping.
/15  Will be constructed by "0peration  Wel1s" of the 'yvdraulic   Service.
/I9  Office, heusiog und farnitore for  3 additional we11 cnostruction tsans at Nion  and at Doueetza, one additional tean at Bankass and coo complete well sonstruetlee
sector at  ore,   For details see Appendix G, Table I of  -ccc Anex.
/20  Ior 3 trars at Nion, Deusngta and Xors respectively acr  one teen at Banhass. For details see Appendix,;Tables 2 and 3 of this Adnna.
/21  or a complete se-ter at lore, 3 teans at Nidon  and L_oe-taa respestively and one te    at Bankass.._ For details see Appesdfmv,Tgb1e 4 of this Adnex.
/22  Per a eomplete sector at Kore, 3 teans at Niece and D-lwnt-s respectively and one teen at Boaksos. For details see Appendiof,Table 5 of this Anne-.
773 77, of cost of c-estructioc works.
724  2.57. of cast of  .o.struction weeks beginnieg in year 10 i_llowing consttrcoion,l(appro-i-ately MF 30 nillion per year).
7725  107. of cost of preparation           and superoision of  -coat-uction works and 207, of cost of construcsion works.
January 10, 1975



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Hydrological Units of the 5th Region
AAEA                           Surface Water                                           Ceology                                    Sul surface hater
est of the Delta       Flat region. slighty higher than the flooding    Geological substrateum made up of shales              The C.T.   w hen thick enough. contains A generalized aqu,ifer
area,  No organized hydrographic network  low        rnd pre-Carilran gravel locally injected        esute. known by measurementa made in the wells.  The water table
topographic p toins occupied by raiy season         with veins of doletite.  The depth of this   is fed to the east and South east by infiltrations frio  the
ponds.                                               substratum is about 50 a toward Diora.           Niger river and the flood area; it  rumn  off toward  the north be-
16 ponds were deepened in 1961 to a vo-              dininishJrgtoward  the wBstand incregaing    coeing progrestively deeper (5 a near the flood orea to 60 m in the
lume of 4,500 r3; tley are still partly used         toward the north, reanhing several hundred   no-fih of the 5th region).
and -eoh appreciated by atockraisers.                meters ta tie Ntara - Laike Vaguibinsarea.       Two "dry overlas" aro located north and south of Diners. Thbirexact
On this substretrum have been deposited          liadt i  not knowng the establishment of wells in these areas
f6rotations of clayey sands belonging to        would require prior reconnaissnce.  The permeability of the C.T.
the Continental Terminal (C.T.).   -            vAries widely; the ydeds obtained from  the wells are less then
.2 m/hour but could be improved up to 6 m /hour.  The water is of
good quality.  The substretum may beer water locally whcn ftsaured,
butChe determonation of water-bearing tonrsa would require costly.
studies.
Corresponds to the plain actually flooded by         The Alluvia of the Niger rest on the C.T.    The  aq.ti'er         of the C.T. is fed by infiltration   from  the
Delta  of the Niger    the river.  The flood begins In August-Sep-            in the east and the west, directly on the    the Niger. and is also contained in the shellow alluvia, 3 to
tetber at Mopti, reaches its peak fron Oct-          substratum in the north (Lare-tiaftunke          10 m underground,  It is possible to obtain eacellent yield. at
ober 15 to November 30, subsides until March         region) and southeast (Bandiag#re plateau    all times
in the Upper Delta and April May in the lower    with a dry overlap in both cases.  Both
Delta.  The flow is 30 a3/s and increases to         t.e Alluvia of the Niger and tht C.T. are
more than 5,000 n3rs   Annual nun off ave-           of undetermn1ed thickness is tliis area.
rages S0 billion e .  The waters of tlhc inte
rtor Delta are intensively used by the herd-
men in the dry season.
The very fissured fnrmations permit consider-    The Tlateau is composed of a thick aries    Thl  Koutlaha sandstones apparently contain i generalized deep
able infiltrations and give rise on the peri-    of q.asihorizontal sandtoro  s resting on           aeuifer       (over IG0  r deep).
andiagars Plate..      phery to tny springs used fur irrigation.            schst-    A large dyke of dolerite cuts          There Are shallower discontinuous   aquifers   in the fissured
and tandamia          Many daos have been built on the Plateau.            the series near Deuentze.  Toward the            cones of the upper sandstones.   Water is found a depths of 5
northeast a aeries of outliers extend           to 15 a, with large seasonal         fluctuations.  The yields are
as far as hodsort.                              on tie order of 3 m3thour per well.  Many comaes have %otsnderTround
water
The hydrsgraphic system is well organized           The region is connected ts the Uandiagara    There Are no enxct data on the hydrogeological characteristics Of
atousa   B Bore -      eat of the surface water being drained by a          plateau.  The quaternary cover is only a         the region; the search for wster beating levels would require lengthy
Lake  KS  arou          permanent streaw (Acure Amba) and by Lake            few meters deep  nd the sandstones outcrop   and  costly technique.
IPYrarou.  The course of tho Acure Amba is               in a series of hills running IE-NW.         The region is classified as inadequate for subsurface water            dew-
marked by a series of more or less permanent                                                         elopment under the project.
ponds. Rainy season ponds also Torn in the
northeast of the region.
The region is covered with dunes running e-u,    The substratum under the dones consists of   The only weakly productive levels are the seams of limestone, but
aestern Gourms          and there fs practically no hydrographic syst    sandstone quartzites and brechoid conglo-    their prospecting would require lengthy and costly investigations.
Only in the Intermediate hollows and at the         merates. shales or clayey and limestone          The region is classified as inadequate for subsurface water dev
foot of the otliers are tie-re a few ponds at       schisti, and shales, sandstone, and do-          *lopnent under the project.
the end of the rainy season.                        lomites.
The hydregraphic sysiem is rather degraded,         The coopositine and the topography of the    The  oondo plain is the seat of a generalized water table, the surface
becouse the Gondo plain is a watershed between   subutratun under the CT. is fairly well             of which is found either in the C.T. or At the upper level  of the
the Niger b.oin and the beaten  of the Voltas.    known  and was deterimined by the geol.gica   s,ubstratum  (limestones and dolo,sitesn  The Aquifer table is fed on its
Only the southern perc of thc plain l\L  a           sections supplied by the wells and by the    edgens inflrtos firon the 54- , ---                           - f   -     i.
hydrographic syntem developed in cuoiuctio         nevyic;   rcf'1--                                of Douentea - Kombori; there is Also a feeding de-e at the level of              '' I
V-t14 i' .-,-- -Thu  topagraphy ofthe s.bstratue is irrc-    the Koro ochl ia.
Ponds have been co,otructed vith a '.''F  -f -       ;,       .  ..r.  st over SO a thickh           The depth of the water table  varies from 45 to 90 e averaging 60 m.
ri- l" P1           2 s    to 12 000 m  and a  e~pth of l. S       hs Es   fmrda  125 there is no precise    W09st of IferidiAn 125'   the hydrgogoloRY to known well enorE1 to preLIe_e
ponds are very much apprecioted by st- krtiser.    eologic study  the C.T  seaus to bh               a progren of exet.tiom withoult further study.  The precise lncation
but there ore no exact data on these works,          Lhinner, allovius  he substratum to             of eatchment works will require a preliminary field survey, because of
outcrop                                         distorted topography of the dune -assif; the flows expected should
in Seno 'tango,  arge dunes cover tho C.T., Anot vcrcod 6 m. /hor'r 1,- '0v                !r. .o,;-e-        - .-  Es tnoA
with '^-  I -       .t..e-uits treatin6 coc  o    ' a
c        -roso  yu. pod
g ~            ~_ __   ,  =    I,



ANNEX 7
Page 1
M A L I
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Mopti Abattoir and Hide-Drying Facilities
The Current System of Marketing and Slaughtering
1.        Cattle and smallstock for Mopti and Sevare are now slaughtered in
abattoirs owned and operated by the municipalities. Butchers, primarily
wholesalers, purchase the animals from the ljvestock markets and bring them
to the abattoir where they are resold to a local retailer. The local retailer
has the livestock slaughtered and drepsed in the municipal abattoir by his
own hired labor. The municipalities furnish the facilities and the Livestock
Service furnishes veterinary inspectors.
2.        The retailer's costs for slaughtering and dressing are approximately
MF 1,300 per head for cattle and MF 410 per head for smallstock, broken down
as:
Cattle                                   MF
Municipal fee                                300
IHired labor (in-kind payment)             1,000
1,300
Smallstock
Municipal fee                                160
Hired labor (cash)                           250
410
3.        Most livestock for the Mopti and Sevare abattoirs are purchased
from the large livestock market in Fatoma about 10 km north of Sevare; only
a small number comes from the small local Mopti and Sevare markets. In
1973, about 2,350 head of cattle and 4,650 head of smallstock were slaughtered
in the Mopti abattoir and about 2,150 head of cattle and 1,000 head of small-
stock in the Sevare abattoir. Some smallstock but almost no cattle are
illegally slaughtered outside the municipal abattoir for sale in retail shops.
4.        The livestock marketing system involves the cattle owner, one or
several middlemen, and the livestock traders. Generally, the livestock owner
has only a few animals to sell and prefers to deal via a middleman rather
than directly with a livestock trader and so the owner usually contacts a



ANNEX 7
Page 2
middleman from a small primary market.  Besides bargaining for the owner,
the middleman usually provides him overnight quarters and subsistence. The
trader purchases animals either for resale to local butchers and other traders,
or for export.  Some owners, however, sell their animals directly to traders.
Local abattoirs generally purchase cull animals, which are :Less experni.ve tharn
export quality cattle, and probably could not make the long trek to corsumpticrl
centers in coastal countries. Trading is private without documents, arLd
animals are sold without being weighed. Most transactions are in casl, thougli
credit at high interest rates is sometimes provided. All livestock a-.e marketed
on the same day once a week. Veterinary inspectors are present and, in addition
to animal health, are responsible for gathering market information on prices,
numbers presented and sold, and destination of animals sold for export:.
5.        Wholesale and Retail Meat Trade and Prices.  Wholesale butchters
generally purchase several animals at the livestock market and then resell
them to the retailer at the local abattoir. The retailer hires butcher boys
to slaughter the animals. Then the carcasses, viscera and edible by-products
are sold in the retailer's street stalls.
6.        Government controls livestock prices only at the retail meat level.
In Mopti, control prices are MF 200 per kg for meat without bones, MF 225 per
kg for meat with bones, MF 250 per kg for fillet and special cuts.  With the
present market valute of cattle, actual prices exceed control prices by about
25%.
7.        Existing Mopti and Sevare Abattoirs.  The existing abattoirs at Moptl
and Sevare are unsanitary. Animals are slaughtered and dressed on the floor,
and edible and inediLble products are not properly separated. No runninig water
is available.  A taik truck brings one load of water once a day, primarily to
wash the floor after slaughtering is completed. The Mopti abattoir corisists
of only an uncovered concrete slab with three horizontal beams (about  ni high)
containing hooks for supporting the dressed carcasses. It is in a residential
area on the banks of a large stagnant lagoon; in this lagoon intestines, heads
and hides are washed and stomach contents are dumped. The abattoir carninot be
improved or extended due to the lack of space, nor can it be reallocated within
.Yopti.  The Sevare abattoir design also does not allow for expansion at reason-
able cost. The investment costs to construct a larger and more efficient
abattoir to serve the needs of both Mopti and Sevare would be consideraY3.y
less than the cost of building a small new facility for Mopti and moder-iizing
the present Sevare facility.
The Project: New Abattoir at Mopti-Sevare
8.        The project: would replace the existing abattoirs in Mopti and Sevare
with a modern and sanitary facility in Mopti-Sevare.  Included and adja4:ent
to the abattoir would be hide and skin-drying facilities and a livestocd
holding pen to hold Et one-week lot of animals for slaughtering.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
9.        Location.  The abattoir would be located 15 km from Mopti -- the
nearest site not flooded during the rainy season -- about 1 km south of Sevare,
on the all-weather Mopti-Bamako highway and 1 km from the Mopti airport.  This
location would facilitate meat export by plane and refrigerated trucks. The
site selected would satisfy the basic requirements for a modern abattoir:
proximity to adequate labor sources, availability of water and electricity,
nearby livestock markets, and sufficient possibilities for effluent treatment.
In addition, the Mopti and Sevare retail markets could easily be supplied
without refrigerated transport. Furthermore, the relative nearness to Sevare
is justified because, due to lack of space for expansion in Mopti, Sevare will
grow more rapidly in the future.
10.       Capacity.  Table 1 gives slaughter figures for 1967-73 and projections
to 1995 based on these figures and expected population growth of Mopti and
Sevare. On the assumption that the abattoir would operate for 360 days per
year and need 25% spare capacity for peak demand periods, it would require
a capacity to process 48 cattle and 100 smallstock per day. The hide-drying
facility would have sufficient capacity for drying the daily output of hides
and skins during two days.
11.       Buildings.  The abattoir would be designed, constructed and equipped
to provide hygienic facilities for slaughtering, dressing, processing and
storing meat products. The loading dock for carcasses would be opposite the
livestock pens and the effluent treatment lagoons. The facility would be
single story with a roof and walls finished on the inside with waterproof
surfaces. All openings would be screened. Inspection and work areas would
be well lighted. The abattoir would have a carcass storage room adequate to
hold a full day's kill of beef and smallstock. A rail system would be included
to allow moving the carcasses from the kill floor to the storage area and
to the loading dock. Rails would be placed 3.35 m above the floor.
12.       The office and guard facility would be an enclosed single story
building. Livestock pens and kill floor races would be fenced. The hide
drying facility would be a covered shed with concrete floors and open sides
to allow ventilation.
13.       Equipment and Processing.  Equipment would be constructed of water-
proof materials which can be easily cleaned. Wood would not be used. Slaughter
floors would have on-the-rail dressing without chain conveyors. Complementary
facilities would be provided for edible by-products. Inedible by-products
would be processed in a separate area. Condemned carcasses and offal would
be destroyed in a lime pit. Throughout processing, each carcass with its
edible and inedible by-products would be properly identified. After slaugh-
tering, carcasses and edible by-products would be delivered by a truck, owned
by the abattoir, to the butcher shops. In the hide-drying facility, hides
and skins would be fleshed, identified and hung on rust-resistant drying racks.
The livestock holding pens would be fenced and provided with watering troughs.



ANTNEX 7
Page 4
14.       Utilities.  A bore hole would be constructed adjacent to the exist-
ing one, and each would be installed with a pump with a minimum capacii:y of
15 m3/hour.  Water rould be pumped to the water tower of the adjacent  -ice
processing mill. ThLis system would provide water to the abattoir, and related
facilities.
15.       Electric power would be available from the municipal electric system.
Provisions have been made for extending the aerial feeder lines and for dis-
tribution of electricity within the site. Effluent treatment would in)ioLve
separation of solids and fat in a catch basin, anaerobic treatment, and evapo-
ration in lagoons constructed adjacent to the facility.
16.       Management.  ODEM would be responsible for constructing and operating
these facilities. OiDEM would employ a firm experienced in abattoir design to
prepare detailed plans and specifications for the abattoir/hide-drying facility,
including process flow diagrams showing the required equipment. The Rural
Engineering Department would supervise construction, procurement and installa-
tion of equipment.  The plant manager, driver, guard and skilled and unskilled
laborers would be employed locally.
17.       Benefits and Justification.  The new abattoir would provide wholesome
meat for Mopti and Sevare and eliminate the present health hazards associated
with the existing abattoirs. It would take slaughtering away from the residen-
tial area in Mopti. Furthermore, it would provide additional capacity to meet
growing demand for meat that is not available in the existing abattoirs. In
addition, improved handling between the abattoir and the retail outlet woluld
be effected.



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Mopti Abattoir - Hide Drying Facility
Past and Projected Slaughter Rates
Actual Slaughter (Head)!-/                                                     Projected Slaughter (Head).Z/
Year        Cattle         Smallstock                    Year                                        Cattle           Smallstock
1967          3,294          9,033                       1974                                         4,800              6,400
1968          3,394          8,742                       1975              Project Year 1             5,100              8,600
1969         4,086           7,792                       1976                             2           5,400            10,800
1970         4,216             -                         1977                             3           6,120             11,880
1971         4,306          10,300                       1978                             4           6,840             12,960
1972         4,500           9,100                       1979                             5           7,560             14,040
1973         4,495           5,700                       1980                             6           8,280            15,120
1981-85                         7-11        9,000             16,200
1986-90                         12-16      10,800             21,600
1991-94                         17-20      14,400             28,800
/1  Combined Mopti and Sevare.
/2 New abattoir to be in operation PY 2.
June 27, 1974
(>X
o 0



i..NNEX 7
lable 2
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Mopti Abattoir - Hide Drying Facility
Investment Casts
Units      Unit Cost   Foreign Exchange          Local       Taxcs       Total
Category                                                 - -------------------------  F '000------------------------
Site Preparation                                                                     -                450          ID         500
Civil Works
Fencing  /1                                     600 m                         1,320                 600         480       2,400
Fencing  /2                                     600 m                         4,500              1,600        1,400       7,500
Fencing  /3                                     120 m2                        1,100                 500         400       2,000
Abattoir  /4                                    350 m2      100/m2           14,000             15,750        5,250      35,000
Hide Drying Building                            300 m2       40/m2            4,800              5,400        1,800      12,000
Administration Building  /5                     100 m2       70/m2            2,800              3,150        1,050       7,000
Guard Facilities                                 50 m2       70/m2            1,400              1,570          530       3,5C00
Utilities
Borehole  /6                                      1                           2,000              2,250          750       5,000
Pumps (15m37hr capacity)                          2                           4,080                 720       1,200       6,000
Electric Power Supply for Abattoir                                               600                675         225       1,50()
Water System for Abattoir                                                     1,500              1,020          480       3,000
Utilities System for Holding Lot7/                                            1,650              1,150          500       3,30()
Effluent Treatment                                                              255              1,020          225       1,5CC
Equipment
Cattle Slaughtering & Dressing /8                                             2,590              1,170          940       4,7C()
Small stock Slaughtering & Dressing  /8                                       2,480              1,120          900       4,5CO
Carcass holding area for 1 day kill  /8                                         730                 310         260       1,300
Hide Drying  /9                                                               1,250                550          400       2,200
Miscellaneous  /10                                                            1,180                 820         500       2,500
Transportation Equipment
Truck  /11                                                                    2,640                760       1,10r        4,50)
Engineering Services
Plans and Specification Preparation  /12                                      4,000                600          40i'      5,002
Subtotal                                                                  54,875             41,185       18,84:    114,90)
Supervision of Construction (6%)                                                 5,600              1,400                   7,00)
Subtotal                                                                  60,475             42,585       18,84:    121,90')
Physical Contingencies ()3,025                                                                     2,115          96&       6
TOTAL                                                                     63,500             44,700      19,80':    128,001)
/1  Exterior perimeter abattoir - hide drying facility atMF  3,000/m plus MF 600,000 for entrance way.
/2  Exterior perimeter livestock holding lot at MF 12,500/m.
/3  Cattle and small stock pens including ramp to slaughterfloor atlF  12,500/m plus MF450,000 for gates.
/4  Separate slaughter area for cattle and small stock.
/5  Includes facilities for guard.
/6  Drilling bore hole for water system 50:m at MF100,000/mto be constructed by force  account.
/7  Water and electric service to livestock holding lot.
/8  Equipment for slaughtering and dressing 48 cattle and 90 smallstock/day.
/9  Drying racks.
/10   Tools, small equipment, trolleys and office equipment.
/11 Closed truck for transporting dressed meat to butcher shoDs.
/12  For preparation of detailed engineering drawings and specifications for procurement.
June 27, 1974



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Mopti Abattoir - Xide Drying Facility
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Year I     Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6   Years 7-11    Years 12-16    Years 17-20
Volume
Cattle (Head)                                                      -       5,400      6,120     6,840      7,560      8,280        9,000           10,800          14,400
Small Livestock (Read)                                             -      10,800    11,880    12,960    14,040    15,120          16,200           21,600          28,800
------------------------------------------  MF '000 ----------------------------------------------
Revenue
Slaughter Fee (Cattle) I/                                          -      10,800    12,240    13,680    15,120    16,560          18,000           21,600          28,800
Slaughter Fee (Smallstock) 2/                                      -       3,780      4,158     4,536      4,914      5,292        5,670            7,560          10,080
llolding Fee (Cattle) 3/                                            -      2,268      2,570      2,873     3,175      3,478         3,780           4,536            6,048
Holding Fee (Smallstock) 4/                                         -        756        832        907       983      1,058         1.134           1.512            2.016
Total Income                                                   -      17,604    19,800    21,996    24,192    26,388          28,584           35,208          46,944
Operating Costs
Plant Manager                                                    960         960        960       960        960        960           960             960             960
Assistant Manager                                                  -         600        600        600        600        600          600             600              600
Skilled Labor 5/                                                   -       1,600      2,000      2,400     2,400      2,800        3,200            4,000           5,200
Unskilled Labor (Abattoir)                                       130         520        520        780      1,040      1,040        1,300           2,080            2,860
Unskilled Labor (Ride Drying Facility)                           130         520        520        520        780        780          780           1,300            1,820
Guard (Abattoir)                                                 130         260        260        260        260        260          260             260              260
Guard (Hide Drying Facility)                                     130         260        260        260        260        260          260             260              260
Driver                                                           200         400        400        400       400        400           400             400              400
Water                                                             56         425        510        595        680        765          850           1,030            1,370
Electricity                                                      100         300        360        420        480        540          600             740            1,100
Maintenance                                                         -      2,200      2,560      2,700     2,880       2,980        3,000           3,600            4,600
Vehicle 6/                                                       250         900      1,100      1,300      1,500      1,700        1,900           2,400            3,000
Feed 7/ _                                                           -      1,130      1,270      1,420     1,580      1,740         1,900           2,400           3,000
Miscellaneous 8/                                                  50         190        230        270        310        360          410             540              730
Total Operating Coats                                      2,136 9/  10,265    11,555    12,885    14,130    15,185           16,420           20,570          26,160
Hll
1/  MF 2,000 per head.
2/  MF 350 per head.
3/  MF 120/day average 3.5 days each animal.
4/ MF 20/day average 3.5 days each animal.
/ Butchers.
6/ Operating costs including insurance.
7/  One animal unit consumes 4.5 feed units/day at MF/10/unit (6 smallstock = 1 animal unit).
8/ Knives, trolleys, cleaning materials, expandable office supplies.
9/ Operating costs during construction period.
January 10, 1975



LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Mppti Abattoir - Hide Dlryirg Facility
Cash F     Proections
?W liF00; 
1          2                                            6                                12        13-1       1             18-20
CASH INFLOW
1. Slaughter Fees                           14,580     16,398      18,216      20,034     21,652   23,670      23,670     29,160      29,160     38,880          38,880
2. Holding Fee                              3,o24       3,402       3,780      4,158       4,536    4,914      4,914       6,dge       6,048      8,064           8,064
3. Long-Term Transfer          108,000                                      -                          14        ,
4. Government Contribution      _20.00         -         _                                            -           -
Total                     128,000      17,604     19,800      21,996      24,192     26,188   28,584      28,584     35,208      35,208     46,944          46,944
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Operation Costs               1,500       8,571      9,776      10,719      11,980     12,9551/ 13,958     13,9582,   17,348       17,348     22;242          22,242
2. Investbrt.                  M81' 0                                                        4 _                   - _                    -               -
Total                     129,500      8,571       9,776      10,719      11,980     16,355   13,958     17,958      20,748     17,348      25,6142         22,242
Cash Surplus (Deficit) before
Debt Service                   (1,500)      ,,033     10,024      11,277      12,212      9,833   14,626     10,626      14,460      17,860     21,302          24,702
3.Debt Sertvie*2
A. Interest (5%)              5,400      5,400      5,220        5,031      4,833       4,624               3,415       3,136                  1,516
B. RepayqAt                     -                                           4. 0i2         h                                                   78
Total                       5,0oo       9,000      9,000       9,000       9,000      9,000    9,000       9,000      9,000       9,000      9,000           9,000
Net Cash Surplus (Deficit) after
Debt Service                    (6,900)        33      1,024       2,277       3,212        833    5,626       1,626      5,46O       8,860     12,302          15,707
Transfer at year end               108,000    104,400    100,620       96,651      92,48t     88,107   68,301     62,718      56,854     30,316      22,833
1/ Tr>:lk Replacemnt
./  Equipment rep2acemrt
3/  An assumed debt service projected to show financial viability of the abattoir.
n  21
June 27, 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Markets
Background
1.        Livestock marketed in the 5th Region originate mainly from
within the Region, with some animals coming from the 4th and 6th Regions.
In 1972, over 200,000 cattle were presentei for sale at the Region's
19 public livestock markets; about half of these cattle and 180,000 sheep
and goats were presented at the five markets to be constructed or expanded
under the project: Sevare, Kona, Douentza, Boni and Tenenkou. These markets
are located along the principal stock routes.
2.        The larger markets generally handle animals for slaughter and
for export. Markets are held once a week. For details of the marketing
system, see Annex 7.
3.        Activity in livestock markets varies substantially by seasons.
Most animals are sold at the beginning of the dry season, when livestock
returns to the Delta, and least during the rainy season when the herds are
grazing away from the major markets. However, the markets in the Delta
have their greatest activicy near the end of the dry season when cattle
are concentrated there.
4.        The existing livestock markets in Sevare, Kona, Douentza, Boni
and Tenenkou operate in opern uncontrolied areas, in or near the communities.
Cattle are traded in one area and small stock in another. The availability
of little or no water and the lack of security discourage herders from using
the markets; livestock get lost rather frequently. In fact, in Douentza,
where there is a small fenced private cattle market, cattle owners are more
than willing to pay a fee for security reasons, for the overnight use of the
livestock park. Due to their disorganization, the existing markets make it
difficult to collect basic marketing data (numbers presented and sold, prices,
destination). Improvements are needed to facilitate marketing and thus to
attract larger numbers of producers and traders.
Construction of Five Livestock Markets
5.        Location and Layout.  Under this project, facilities for holding,
watering and marketing livestock would be provided at Sevare, Kona, Douentza,
Boni and Tenenkou. Annual throughput for each facility has been projected
from the number of livestock presented for sale at each of these sites during
the period 1971-73 and from the expected increased offtake resulting from
the proposed project (Table 1, this Annex). Two models with different capaci-
ties have been developed, as follows, assuming that the markets would operate
one day a week:



ANN'EX 8
Page 2
Cattle        Smallstock
head/day
Sevare                                800             1,200
Kona                                  800             1,200
Douentza                              400             1,000
Boni                                  400             1,000
Tenenkou                              400             1,000
6.        Investment Costs for the markets are given in Table 2 of this
Annex, and Income and Operating Costs in Table 3. Each livestock market
would have three basic elements:
(a) A livestock park, where animals are held prior to sale, would be
enclosed with a six-strand wire fence attached to metal posts,
and watered by troughs. The larger markets would have a 1 ha
holding area and the small ones, 0.6 ha. Each market would be
equipped withi a well, a hand pump and a water storage tank.
(b)  A single story building, adjacent to the livestock park,
would be constructed for administrative purposes and as a
guard facility. For the larger markets, the building would
have 45 m2 of floor area and for the smaller, 30 m2.
(c)  Some livestock holding pens, where sold livestock could be
kept, a concrete vaccination yard for vaccinating cattle
destined for export, a cattle weighing scale, and a
loading ramp would be built at the livestock park of each
market.
7.        Construction and Management.  ODEM would be responsible for con-
structing and managing the livestock markets.  The Rural Engineering Depai:t-
ment would prepare plans and tender documents and would supervise constructLon.
Each market would have a manager, a laborer and a guard, and would be super-
vised by ODEM's Marketing Service.
8.        Benefits and Justification.  The proposed market fees -- MF 150 per
head of cattle and MF 25 per smallstock, to be paid by the producer -- have
been calculated to generate a reasonable rate of return on the investment.
The producer is expected to pay this fee willingly for the services renderdcl.
The markets would provide thie basis for developing an organized livestock
marketing system in the 5th Region. The availability of water and securiti
at the markets would attract an increasing number of livestock owners and
traders, which in turn would increase competitiveness and, subsequently,
producer prices. The markets are also expected to develop the supply of
feeder steers necessary for satisfying the rapidly increasing demand for
these steers from the fattening schemes in Mali's higher rainfall areas.
Furthermore, better organized livestock marketing would facilitate gatheri::Lg



ANNEX 8
Page 3
reliable data on prices, livestock availability, types of animals being
presented, destination, etc. Finally, associated with these markets would
be increased social benefits and income to the five communities, which would
induce desirable settlement.



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Markets
Past and Projected Throughput
1971                1972                1973          Project Year 2    ProJect Years 3-7
Cattle  Smallstock  Cattle  Smnalistock  Catte Smallstook  Cattle Smallstock  Cattle  SmallstoWk
Shvar6-Mopti-Fatoma      35,557    499673    47,817    84,691    29,809   52,290       36,000  51,000      43,200   61,200
Kona                     25,836    36,097    19,895    37,000    23,465   40,250      25,000  38,000      30,000   45,600
Douentza                 13,200    46,700    13,267    36,384    15,006   42,500       14,000  44,000      16,800   52,800
Boni                      7,857     9,516    10,898    12,560    15,921   16,641       11,000  13,000      13,200   15,600
Tenenkou                 14,806     7,295    10,791      6,897          -        -     14,000   7,000      16,800    8,400
June 27, 1974
ti,



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Markets
Investment Cost
(MF '000)
Units    Unit Cost       Sevar       Keona      Douentza   __Boni          Tenenkou      Foreign ExchanRe         Local        Taxes        rotal
Fencing  barbwire  /1                              300 m                     1,060      1,060                                                  1,170                    525         425        2,120
Fencing barbwire  /1                               310 m                                              1,160        1,160        1,160          1,920                    865         695        3,480
Fencing metal tubing                               370 m                     4,660      4,660                                                  5,130                 2,325        1,865        9,320
Fezncing metal tubing                              180 m                                              2,260       2,260         2,260          3,730                 1,695        1,355        6,780
Concrete vaccination paddocks                                                2,440      2,440                                                  1,950                 1,955          975        4,880
Concrete vaccination paddocks                                                                         1,840       1,840         1,840          2,210                 2,210        1,100        5,520
Loading ramp                                                                   650        650           650          650           650         1,340                 1,410          500        3,250
Office and guard housirng 2.                      45 m2         80/r2        3,600      3,600                                                  2,880                 3,220        1,100        7,200
Offic- and g,,Ard hcuxing 2/ ,0)2                               80/.2                                 2,400        2,400        2,400          2,880                 3, 22001 I,200
Well                                               230 a       170/m         3,400                                 3,400                        3,000                2, 710       1,090        b,800
Well                                               15 m        170/m                    2,550         2,550                                    2,250                 2,030          820        5.100
Well                                               10 m        160/n                                                             1,600            710                   635          255       1,600
Water storage                                      30 rn3       40/a3        1,200      1,200                                                     960                 1,080          360       2.400
Water st3rage                                      20 m3        40/c3                                   BoO          800           800            960                 1,080          360       2,40(0
PuJmps   3                                         eacl:                       330         330          330          330           330          1,130                   190          330       1,650
Watering trouigh                                   30 mS         20/c          600         600                                                    480                   540          180       1,200
Watering trough                                    15 m          201m                                   300          300           300            360                   405          135         900l
Scale                                                                          660         660          660          660           660          2,260                   250          790       3,300
Miscellanecins                                                         / S250            1l,OS          600          700           500         61640                                  3t,635   43,00
Sub-Total                                                             19,850      18,800       13,550       14,500        12,500         36,960                28,170       14,0-'0     79,200
Supervision of Construction (77.)                                            1,390      1,320           950        1,0140      _   B84                                                 - _.550
Sub-Total                                                             21,240    20,120         14,500       15,510        13,380         41,400                29,280       14,070      84,750
Physical Contingency                                                        j  060      1,010           730          780           670          2j160               _,380            710            )
TOTAL                                                                 22,300      21,130       15,230       16,290        14,050         43,560                30,660       14,780       89,000
/i  Six strand barbwire on metal posts.
/2  Single structure diuided for Jffice and guard housing.
/3  Hand puwss to fill reservoir and watering trouigh.
/4  Office equipment, pump :;pare parts, hand tools, etc.
June 27, 1974



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Markets
Income and Operating Cost Prolections
Year 1                                   Year 2                                     Year 3-7    Year 8-12    Year 13-20
Sevare     Kona      Douentza       Boni      Tenenkou      Total        x 1.2          x 1.5         x 1.9
Volume
Cattle Hlead                                          -        36,000    25,000       14,000      11,000      14,000      100,000        120,000      150,000         190,000
Smallstock Read                                       -        51,000    38,000       44,000      13,000       7,000      153,000        183,000      230,000         290,000
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~M FOO-
Revenue
Cattle Fee 1/                                         -         5,400      3,750       2,100       1,650       2,100       15,000         18,000       22,500          28,500
Smallstock Fee 2/                                     -         1.275        950       1.100         325         175        3.825          4.575        5.750           7.250
Total                                             -         6,675      4,700       3,200       1,975       2,275       18,825        22,575        28,250         35,750
Operating Cost
Manager                                               -           600        600         600         600         600        3,000          3,000        3,000           3,000
Laborer                                               -           260        260         260         260         260        1,300          1,300        1,560           1,820
Guard                                                 -           260        260         260         260         260        1,300          1,300        1,300           1,300
Maintenance (2.5%)                                    -           550        525         375         400         350        2,200          2,640        3,300           4,180
Miscellaneous 3/                                      -           300        255         225         200         200        1.180         1360         1.740           2.200
Total                                             -         1,970      1,900       1,720       1,720       1,670        8,980         9,600        10,900         12,500
1/ FM 150 for use of market facilities.
2/ FM 25 for use of market facilities.
3/  Small operational items.
January 10, 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I-lopti Trial Station
Background
1.        The internal delta of the Niger River system is an area of unique
value. Agriculture and fisheries apart, its grasslands effectively support
the whole of the cattle industry of the 5th Region, and some neighboring
areas.
2.        At the same time, the delta is an area of many problems and con-
flicting interests. In recent years, the spread of shifting rice cultivation
has spoiled the grazing potential by an estimated 150,000 ha of bourgou and
other floodplain grasslands. The bourgou grasslands -- dominated by
Echinochloa stagnina and Vossia cuspidata -- are the Tost valuable grazing
resources of the delta.
3.        It is imperative that the forage potential of the delta be pro-
tected against future deterioration and that the productivity of areas
already damaged be restored. If land-use in the delta can be rationalized,
there will be opportunities for greatly intensifying present systems of
livestock production, including the retention of animals in the delta for
longer periods of the year. Ilowever, if this is to happen, it will be
necessary to develop methods for the control of parasites and insects,
as well as to establish the economics of different production techniques.
Present Research Facilities
4.        Livestock and grassland research is currently under way at two
Government centers in Mali:
(i) Centre National de Recherches Zootechniques de Sotuba, which
has good animal facilities and a land area of some 700 ha; and
(ii) Station de l'Elevage et de Recherches Zootechniques du Sahel
de Niono, which has equally good facilities for field research
(including both a ranch and access to the irrigated lands of
the Office du Niger) and yards for feedlot trials on a semi-
commercial scale.
In addition, feeding trials are conducted by the Office du Niger itself, using
by-products from irrigation farming.



A:NNEX 9
Page 2
5.        Current research programs are largely irrelevant to the uni(lUe
problems of the Niger delta.  An exception is the feeding trials that have
been undertaken at Niono (and, to a lesser extent, by the Office du N:.ger).
The capability of the Niono station for future feedlot work is suffic: ent
to make it unnecessary to consider major feedlot facilities at M4opti.
Although the feedstuffs immediately available at Niono and Mopti are -ot
always comparable, there is no reason why Mopti-type rations could nol: be
simulated in the Niono yards, as and when required.
Project Provisions
6.        The project provides for the establishvnent of a 150 ha trial
station on the east bank of the Niger, 8 km north of Htopti, to be staffed
by one Livestock Research Officer (in-charge), one Pasture Agronomist,, and
support staff.  The Pasture Agronomist would initially have to be an ex'tat-
riate, who would be replaced in PY 5 by a Malian.
7.        The purpose of the trial station is:
-    to determine methods for restoring the productivity of
degenerate bourgou;
-    to study production increases from natural pastures
through grazing management;
-    to identiLy productive forage plants that can be used to
replace o;r supplement the natural grasslands of the delta;
-    to establish, through combinations of different categories o;-
land and forages, systems of land and forage resource managernent
that provide for the nutrition of animals kept year-round in the
delta;
-    to establish appropriate regimes of parasite and insect cont:oL
for maintaining the health and productivity of cattle and sheep
kept year-round in the delta; and
-    to determine, by stall feeding, the potential value of the fcrages
produced on the station or available locally.
In addition, it is anticipated that the station will grow Acacia albidc
seedlings, for distribution for planting in suitable areas. In all, 40-O50
ha will be developed for irrigation and simulated flooding regimes.
8.        Individual studies will include:
-    methods for reestablishing Echinochloa or alternative species
under simulated flooding regimes;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
studying of potentially useful forage plants under a variety
of flooded and irrigated conditions;
assessments of the livestock carrying capacities of represen-
tative grassland types;
comparison of alternative antihelminthic regimes and insect
repellents on cattle and sheep; and
-    feeding trials for milk and meat production.
9.        Techniques worked out on the station, especially those focused on
animal husbandry, will be tested in collaboration with two nearby villages,
probably Nimitogo and Tourorongo. The former comprises mainly Peuhl cattle-
men and some rice cultivators and the latter mainly Marka rice cultivators.
The difficulties encountered in incorporating new technologies, as well as
their social and economic consequences, will assist in framing the future
work of the station. It is anticipated that this pilot extension program
will incorporate a small livestock credit component.
10.       While the station is regarded as an outstation of ODEM, close
liaison will be needed with the Institut d'Economie Rural (IER), which
controls the research program of the Ministry of Production, including the
stations at Sotuba and Niono (para 4). The work program of the Mopti Trial
Station would therefore be subject to annual review by a Research Committee
under the chairmanship of the Director of IER or his representative, and
with membership comprising the Director of ODEM, the Director of the Station
de l'Elevage et de Recherches Zootechniques du Sahel, and the Livestock
Research Officer and Pasture Agronomist of the Mopti Trial Station.



l0.J10101 0l0.0l10IO                                        0010               0010         0'1'0- 00           10ww  :<0,   w 0y  0   w <0rc     f-yo    redn>twg:
0010         n g=0 01<SO101O       OXO0 0                   1100           w    -0110000000                                       0000.000                   000001000 00000  9 r yt . ccrX<u          
 cJ  a  R>  0000.011g                            11W00001   WW0000  0W 000 000On 1o 01100,1 w  .r oU  f.            * 01000                      0 = 0 o '  o 
. ,    0      0  0   0           001      0    g   0   0    o O    a      o            O     o o g o ' O o            o oS   r, o  na Q u n I 0 0   n   0   o O O o .  .   o   o
n 0                                              o         0  n  0      a    W . 0       0 0    =      0 0   1<                                           0    0'            0 0I-
S ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     0                   00 0 X g                                                                0                     0    00    0 0g l q  0o .q  
r  P   1"  n    0   'n                                     00           0 0     0 0     0 '  a0                                      10  0               0. 0 0 1.:
s10100000                        000 r                             00         00 0f    :X> .R6u=
00       0.000 01.10a a 0.   001                  0        01      00 e
nn       X   = a 6   g   "~ .          S 88              ooo-01<800081<0   81 oSoIQ(                                                o                    8             I
z<  R n    ovw s .wX a           ooo               ooooooooooo80gooo                                                          o0-0010oooS
sgr  0  a            0.    3        0n                    00e100
0.           01 s0              0    010 a0                                      0 081        1 0   0   0      0 0 0                                       010g10
0 S  11                2 2 .    -    1 1 0                     n0 0                     0   0    0   0   0       0  100                                                           0
g                         2 c     a a  0.< 
00 c     1 '0                         000u =      a
0*0          0.      04               0 0                                                                                                                                                     0    .o     
0     0                                                                                                                0    0 0 0 00.0  0 0                                                            r  
0~~~~~ ~~~ 0                                                                                                                                                                0    0   00    r    -0 .||    
c     1                             0       8   80                                                                                                          ~      0      0 8   810    8888I
01                                        c   w      _   _        0   0   _.1                                                                                                       0 r0>~ wv        ,     N    O
t                                         P 0   0                                                                     0 00  0                                            80 00
S'~~~~~~~~ __                                                                                                                                                    1
_                                                                                                                  O  O   O   O  W   =   W      O)  W   :O W W <z CO GO ^ b W J W W kA r Vl C in Vl WA r v 1910 &1F   -
6~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                                                                                                     ~ ~ 0s  00  0n 00  r.
0    ~1                                               101
|g  |   |t$6     s   r'801          10.0    xo 88 > 00<001                                     01<08.0        P    o 810   0000
S~~~~~~~~~~011010000008 



ANNEX 9
Table 2
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ODEM - Mopti Trial Station
Operating Costs and Income
(M ' 000)
Unit      --------------------------------- Project Year ---------------------------------
Cost             1                 2                 3                 4              5-20
Mo.     Coat-   NO.       Cost      No.      Cost     No.      Cost     No.      Cost
A. OPflAT ING COSTS
Salariea and Wages 1/
Director of the Station 2/                       2,000       1       2,000     1       2,000     1       2,000     1       2,000      i      2,000
Pasture Agronomist                              20,000       1     20,000      1     20,000      1     20,000      1      20,000      1      2,000
Assistant Livestock Officer                      1,300       1       1,300     1       1,300     1       1,300      1      1,300      1      1,300
Technical Assistant 3/                             960       3      2,880      3       2,880     3       2,880     3       2,880     3       2,880
Mechanic                                           610       1         610     1         610     1         610      1        610      1        510
Driver-Mechanic                                    400       4       1,600     4       1,600     4       1,600     4       1,600      4      1.600
Head Herdsman                                      400       1         400     1         400      1        400      1        400      1        400
Herdsman                                            260      2         520     2         520     2         520      2        520      2        520
Laborer                                            260      20      5,200    20        5,200    20       5,200    20       5,200    20       5,200
Guard                                              260       1        260      1         260     1         260     1         260      1        260
Subtotal                                                       34,770            34,770            34,770            34,770             16,77J
Maintenance
Buildings & Construction 4/                                              -            4,230             4,230              4,230             4,230
Land Development 5/ J                                                _______
Running Costs of Vehicles & EBuiment
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle 6/                      1,875       1      1,875      1      1,875      1       1,875     1       1,875      1      11i75
Van 7/                                             900       1        900      1         900     1         900      1        900      1        900
Motobike 8/                                        100       2         200     4         400     4         400     4         400      4        400
Tractor (60-70 HP) 9/                            2,250       1      2,250      2      5,500      2       5,500      2      5,500      2      5,500
Lighting Plant 10/                                 675       1        675      1         675     1         675     1         675      1        675
Pumping Station 11/                                          1      4.000      1      4.000      1       4.000     1       4.000      1      4,000
Subtotal                                                        9,900            13,350            13,350            13,350             13,350
Replacement
Vehicles & Equipment 12/                                            5,420             6.920              6.920             6.920          _6.92i0
Purchase of Livestock
Breeding Heifers/Cows                           40,000       -           -     -                 6         240     6         240      -           -
Breeding Bulls                                  60           -           -     - -              1/3         20    1/3         20    1/3         20
Feeder Stee-s                                   30,000       -           -    60       1,800    60       1,800    60       1,800    50       1,500
Miscellaneous Livestock Purchases 13/                        -                -           -                200               200               200
Subtotal                                                            -             1,800             2,260              2,260             1,720
Diverse Production Means
Fertilizer 14/                                                      6,000              6,000             6,000             6,000             6,000
Seed                                                                1,000              1,000             1,000             1,000             1,000
Concentrate Feed 15/                                                   700             1,100             1,200             1,300             1,600
Minerals 16/                                                            20                30                35                40                45
Vaccines, Drugs & Insecticides 17/                                      40                60                70                80                 90
Miscellaneous 18/                                                     .780               820               830               840               870
Subtotal                                                        8,540             9.010             9,135             9.260             9.605
.OTAL OPERATING COSTS                                          58,630            70.080            70.665            70.790             52,595
B.  INCOME
Culled Cows                                     40,000       -           -     -           -     5         200      5        200      5        200
Culled Bulls                                    60,O0e       -           -     -           -    1/3         20    1/3         20    1/3          20
Fattened Steers                                 50,000       -           -    58      29,000    58      29,000    58      29,000    60      30,000
Heifers                                         40,04e       -           -     -           -      -          -      -           -     5         200
Miscellaneous Livestock 13/                                  -           -     -         400      -        400      -        400      -         400
Milk 19/                                                     -          -      -                  _ -      450    -          450    -          450
TOTAL INCOME                                                                     29,400             30,070            30,070            31,270
1/  Includes field allowances and provision for medical, leave snd other allowances.
2/ Would be a veterinarian, specialized in livestock research.
3/  One Infirmier Vet(rinaire and two Moniteurs Agricoles.
4/  5% of construction costs beginning with year following construction; excludes elaboration of contracts, supervision of works and
purchase of furniture.
5/ Will be done by the Station.
6/  25,000 km/year at MF 75 per km for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurauce.
7/  20,000 km/year at MF 45 per km for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
B/  10,000 km/year at MF 10 per km for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts, repairs and insurance.
9/  1,500 working hours/year at MF 1,500 per hour for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts and repairs.
10/ 1,500 working hours/year at Mr 450 per hour for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts and repairs.
11/  20,000 m3/ha x 50 ha x MF 4 per m3 for fuel, oil, grease, spare parts and repairs.
12/  20% of original cost beginning with year of acquisition; includes pumps of pumping station valued at MF 9 million.
13/  For exple for sheep and lambs for fattening for the Tabaski feast.
14/  50 ha x   MF 120,000 per ha.
1/  0,7 t per A.U. per year at MF 15,000 per t.
16/ MF 300 per A.U. per year.
17/ MF 600 per A.U. per year.
18/ 10% of diverse production means; includes office expenses.
19/ 30 cows x 300 1 milk/year/ME 50.
January 10, 1975



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ODEM - Staff Training Costs
(MF'000)
Unit   ----------Project Year --------------------------------
Cost         1               2                 3                 4                5                Total
No.     Cost    No.       Cost    No.       Cost,  No.       Cost    No.       Cost    No.       Cost
Training at CNRZ/Sotuba /L
Travel Mopti-Sotuba                  5      30       150      30      150      30       150      20       100      20       100    130       650
Living Cost Allowances /2           36      30    1,080      30    1,080       30    1,080       20      720      20       720    130    4,680
Education Materials                  4      30      120      30       120      30       120      20        80     20        80    130        520
Subtotal                                  1,350             1,350             1,350               900               900            5,850
Annual Seminars at Mopti /3
Seminar Costs and
Living Cost Allowances             10    122    1,220    131    1,310    152    1,520    156    1,560    156    1,560    717    7,170
Training Abroad
2-Month Fellowship /4              950      3    2,850        3    2,850              -                 -                 -          6    5,700
Formal Training Abroad
(man year) /5                  1,700              -          2    3,400       2    3,400               -                 _         4    6,800
Subtotal                                  2,850             6,250            3,400              -                 -               12,500
TOTAL STAFF TRAINING COSTS                           5X420             8,910             6,270            2,460             2,460            25)520
/1  Four-month courses at the "Centre National de la Recherche Zootechnique de Sotuba  in livestock husbandry,
range management and livestock extension for ODEM's medium and lower grade technical staff.
/2 MF 200 per participant per day.
/3  For all project technical staff.
__  For senior Malian project staff to visit ongoing livestock projects in Africa; includes living cost
allowances (MF 7,500 per day) and transport costs (MF 500,000 per person).
/5  For four Malian graduates to replace expatriates; includes living cost allowances (MF 100,000 per month) and
transport costs (MF 500,000 per person).
Spnrat>pmh,r A_ 1Q77A



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Preinvestment and Other Studies and Project Preparation
Apart from the Mopti Trial Station (Annex 9), the execution of the
project requires or would benefit from:
(a) preinvestment studies for well construction, which are conditions
of disbursement;
(b) studies in support of a regional livestock development plan; and
(c) miscellaneous studies, e.g., concerning the testing of functional
literacy programs, tree planting, fiscal and credit systems.
The main responsibility for designing and executing these activities will
rest with the Planning/Management Unit of ODEM.
A. Preinvestment Studies
Study No. 1:   Human and Livestock Census, Seno Mango (Controlled grazing
area and site for water development).
Objective: To determine the number and distribution of
families and livestock likely to use the area and the herd
composition.
Execution: By enumeration, under the direction of the
Community Development Officer and Livestock Economist of
ODEM, utilizing the field staff of the Pastoral Service
and the Animal Health Service.
Duration: Three-four months for the initial census,
starting in PY1 as soon as possible; supplementary data
concerning particular groups will need to be collected in
PY2 and PY3 prior to each year's well development program.
Study No. 2:   Socioeconomic Surveys, Seno Mango
Objective: To determine (a) the proportion of local
villagers and livestock that will actually participate
in the Seno Mango scheme; (b) the numbers of animals
from further afield that will be accommodated, seasonally
or permanently, and the areas that will be reserved for



ANNEX 11
Page 2
their use; and (c) the forms of cooperative organization and
the conditions of participation that will be introduced
for purposes of management. This information will be
incorporated into an outline plan for the Seno Mango,
indicating a proposed subdivision into development units,
each with allotted users, livestock, and management system.
Execution: By dialogue with the pastoralists concerned,
enquiry into social organization and attitudes, and discussion
with representatives of other government departments; to De
planned and directed by the Planning/Management Unit of ODEX
(especially the Community Development Officer, Livestock
Economist and Range Management Officer), supported by the
Pastoral Service. The Livestock Economist will need to
support development proposals by economic analyses.
Duration: About four months initially, comprising three
months of field work (concurrent with Study No. 1) and six
weeks' analysis to prepare for the first season's development
program; subsequently about one month of field checking anGh
analysis will be needed to precede and update each development
season.
Study No. 3:   Well-siting Survey, Seno Mango (in the light of Annex 6)
Objective:  To choose specific sites for well-digging.
Execution:  Site selection by the Water Development Offic,r
and, as required, a consultant hydrogeologist (Annex 6,
Appendix 3), working in collaboration with the Range
Management Officer.
Duration:  About three weeks prior to each season's work,
concurrent with Study 2, with intermittent supervision andl
resiting by the Water Development Officer during well-
digging operations.
Study No. 4:   Ecological Studies, Seno Mango
Objective:  As part of wider ecological studies (Study No.  4),
to maintain a record of range condition and trend, and to
establish better guidelines for determing livestock carryil,g
capacity.
Execution: Transects and study plots, established and
recorded under the direction of the Range Management Offic!r.
Duration: Intermittent throughout the project period.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Study No. 5:   Predevelopment Range Survey, West Gourma and Batouma-Bore
(Areas for water development)
Objective: To site new surface reservoirs in a manner that
will optimize the investment, providing sufficient water
(if feasible) to permit 200,000 cattle to remain east of the
Niminiama-Adiou line until mid-November and, subsequently, on
the Bore plain until the end of November.
Execution. Reconnaissance survey and air-photo interpretation
by Planning/Management Unit, especially Range Management
Officer and Water Development Officer, who will jointly decide
the final sites in relation to topography, grazing conditions
and estimated livestock populations; the design of appropriate
structures for the reservoirs will be undertaken by a con-
sultant water engineer (Annex 6, Appendix 1).
Duration: About four weeks, probably in PY2, immediately
preceding construction work.
Study No. 6:   Predevelopment Range Survey, West of Delta (Areas for water
development)
Objective: As Study No. 5, but designed to permit (a) 200,000
cattle to remain in the Mema until mid-October, and sub-
sequently to delay their onward passage (cf. Study No. 7) so
that they arrive at the delta in mid-November, (b) 150,000
cattle using the Diafarabe area to remain west of the
Barakabougou-Kerke line until mid-October, and (c) up to
50,000 cattle to divert from the Diafarabe area to the old
Kotia area and remain east of Dioura until mid-October.
Execution: As for Study No. 5.
Duration: About five weeks, early in PY1.
Study No. 7:   Geophysical Survey, West of Delta (see Annex 6, Appendix 2)
Study No. 8:   Land Resource Assessment, SW Dioura
Objective:  To determine land capability and devise an
integrated development plan for the area southwest of Dioura,
optimizing the use of the wells scheduled for that area (cf.
Study No. 7), in balance with other physical, and human and
biological resources.



AN:CX l;
lage 4
Execution:  Air photo interpretation, followed by combi:ked
ecological and socioeconomic surveys by the Planning/Ma&-age-
ment Unit supported as required by consultants.  A semi4.etailed
soil survey will be required if early indications suggest
agricultural settlement.
Duration: About two months, probably in PY2.
B. Regional Livestock Development Plan
(Including Identification of Future Investment Programs)
Study No. 9:   Surveys of the Central Delta
(i)  Pastoral land use survyy
Objective:  To map the movements and territories of pastoral
groups in relation to the grazing resources of the delta, as
a basis for planning and organizing ODEM activities.
Execution: The vegetation-topographical map at 1:50,000 scale
by the UNDP/FAO Migratory Locust Project will form a base mnap
for refining or regrouping grassland types and superimposing
the movements and territories of pastoral groups. The survey
will be conducted by the Planning/Management Unit (especia:ly
the Community Development Officer and Livestock Economist)
with the support of the Pasture Agronomist from Mopti Trial.
Station, involving air-photo interpretation, pasture anal-s is,
observation of herds and enquiry among pastoral groups.  iIerd
observiation will be supplemented by enumeration and possi,)ly
aerial counts. The firnal map will show the ownership and
itineraries of herds along stock routes, including patter'1s
and timies of dispersion and aggregation.
Duraticon:  About 10O mornths, broken into two periods of five
months in consecutive dry seasons, the eastern delta bein:
studied. in t'ne first season and the western delta in the
seconds  The f4rst field season will 'e preceded by a
reconnaissance survey to establish methods.
(ii)  Aoeconomic sure
Obljctive- To divi-de the delta into discrete dev elopment Irnits
based on opportunities for agriculture, livestock and othe-
(e.g., :fishery) development, havIng in mind the need to co:ifine
the sDreAd of cultivation to areas of best agricultural po:en-
tial while safeguardioig and developing the pasture resourcl] of
the delta for the benefit of the regional livestock indust:y.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
Execution and Duration: To be decided. In part this study
can be combined with 9 (i) but in its entirety it requires a
major agricultural input (including soils and hydrology). The
best approach, and the consultant requirement, can be decided
when 9 (i) is being planned.
Study No. 10:  Hydro-Ecological Survey, the Delta Fringe
Objective:  To determine the feasibility of developing shallow
groundwater for crop or pasture use on the fringes of the
delta.
Execution: A reconnaissance or semidetailed survey of water
and land resources, undertaken by the Water Development Officer
and possibly a consultant soil surveyor and/or irrigation
engineer, assisted by the Pasture Agronomist and/or the Range
Management Officer.
Duration: Probably undertaken as an extension of 9 (i).
Study No. 11:  Hydrological Survey, East of Seno Mango (see Annex 6,
Appendix 5).
Study No. 12:  Livestock Census, 5th Region
Objective:  To determine the livestock population of the 5th
Region.
Execution:  To be planned by the Livestock Economist, probably
to involve aerial sampling combined with ground checks during
other studies and at the time of aerial sampling (immediately
before and after the rains, when the livestock are concentrated).
Duration: Possibly before and after the rains in PY2 and PY3;
the exact replication and duration will depend on the methods
used and the success and coverage of the first counts.
Study No. 13:  Identification of Discrete Development Areas, 5th Region
Objective: To complete the division of the Region into discrete
development areas and to establish more precisely their develop-
ment opportunities and requirements, as a basis for deciding
priorities and planning future livestock activities.
Execution and Duration: Data on ecological and livestock
potential, present land-use, social organization and water
resources to be accumulated during other work by the Planning/
Management Unit; to be finalized in PY3, when four to seven
months will be devoted to completing area surveys and preparing



ANNEX l 1
Page 6
new project proposals, with consultant support as appi^opriate.
In the preparation of the latter proposals, considerati1on will
be given to opportunities for ranching and fattening in the
south of the 5th Region.
Study No. 14: Ecological Studies, 5th Region
Objective: To provide more reliable assessments of range
condition and trend and the livestock carrying capacity of
representative grazing areas, required in support of future
development planning (Study 13).
Execution and Duration: As Study No. 4.
C. Miscellaneous Studies
Study No. 15: Functional Literacy, 5th Region
Objective: To determine the response of representative
pastoral groups to functional literacy programs, as a medium
for transferring new ideas and applying livestock extension
programs.
Execution: To be designed by the Community Development
Officer in conjunction with the Functional Literacy Serrice
and applied with the assistance of the Pastoral Service.
Priority will be given to the Seno Mango area.  On the '.vidence
of early tests, more comprehensive programs are likely .o be
initiated.
Duration:  Intermittent throughout the term of the projec .
Study No. 16:  Tree Planting Trials, 5th Region
Objective: To determine (a) the potential value under Theal
conditions of a variety of fodder trees and shrubs and ())
efficient methods for the establishment and utilization of'
Acacia albida and other species of recognized value.
Execution:  Study plots to be laid out in consultation bitween
the Water and Forest Service and the Pastoral Service as
required.
Duration: Intermittent throughout the project period.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
Study No. 17:  Legal and Tax Systems for Controlling Grazing and Livestock
Numbers, 5th Region
Objective: To review present legislation and fiscal (primarily
tax) policies governing livestock and land-use in the 5th
Region and to indicate ways in which amendment could assist
in realizing desired development objectives.
Execution: By one or two consultants.
Duration: About 6 man-months, in PY3 or 4.
Study No. 18:  Livestock Credit, 5th Region
It is anticipated that under the program of work of the Mopti
Trial Station (Annex 9), two or three villages will be incor-
porated into a pilot scheme for testing livestock credit for
fodder and meat production.



hed  -1vhs,,e-  F-i-tri-s - Wilh-~ b ll esee
Lehi   he-isheSit  2         ~      ~     ~      ~     ~~            ~      ~     ~~2  3  4  5  6  3         8             9           ii          hI             6 2          is           04           is            it             i           his           19           20
N..ehe                              54h.hhh      5172,020      5 9h7.sia    612,303      605,426      614,603       62h,.856     622,625      622,h782     h6246I        6027,207     629,800      6310,691      633,945      636,126       6380,2h0     640,616       642,h830     645,049       641, 286     64.3
W. s                       h.        54,000       51Y, 202      59. ash      61. 230      60,543       626460       62, hit       62,262       62,200       62,4t2        6 2, 7h29    62,900       6 3,2189      63, 395      63,603       63,030        64,062        64, 203      64,525        64. 729      6,9
hIf.r hel-                        N 80.     hhhh         63  2825      143,356      14h.h53      145,3h02     147, 5h5      149,hhh      149,42i      hh9.46h      h49,9h9       15h.549      hh ,h152     h5h,654      h52,h1472     h5h,63h17    h453,200      h53,34h       h54,29       hhho          h5,4            ,
lleiiers a-a   ~        9s.      hhh.hhh       hhh,Whh      h25,06h lo4.Iss            h38,36       436,Sih       030655      hh,i           h,h          4,h         h4,hIh,i                    4,h          4,5           4.h 363.3I I               46hi        164,23        h45.h22      14,2          i6h2
heaters 3-6 aer0M.                           h,h0h        ihh,h2h      ihh,49h4       95, 392     I, 6h4       ih17 8h13    ,2h:, 15       0 11,4h02   12hi,21h3    122,h45       122,79       12 02,825    223, ih6      i03, h3      h24,21 ih    i4,622       1225 h2       009,65         2,5          2,32         ai 
shOhr                      s..      9h,hh        hh,h          Ih7 .h       hhIh         hI97          4,29        hh75           i            1hh 62,Ihh  1h2,432       112,912      113,364      2h3  ',4      h14,hhh      204,503      hh4,908       h65,Shh      225,hh        Oh,h            ,h          h,1
alhs02sesNi.                        hOhOhO         19,200       90,600       92,463       92,580       89360        09,609        89,403       00,36        08,5~60        0,6129h     89,200       69,352        69,655       90,h46       92,45         9020          9009        h960           00,226       hh4
Mies23 atr                      N..       00,000        90,002       22,072       803,642      60,4604       00,944       25,063        2522  25,0920432                       2439         2674   ,:60   742          2,2           25,416       2,2            595         2,53          2,2           6262,6
heOe 94 ystsh.                            20,000        92,220       83560,i      67,746        25,60        35,1: 66     2,710        32,359        20,755       7h,593       69,0          69,927       76,033       20,432        70,264       20,969        26.073       36 426        2,2          2146          067
Oehrs 4-5 9cn$           ts.~~~~~~~~~N  62,000   6250         7h,621       70,04         5396         5,85         5644         52,992        40,66        40,020       46.04Q9'     48,232        46,249       49,25         40,590       60,7992       68,955       49 ..h         4,04952963
S-ire 0lder 6bs 5 Irm               N..       _50,h2 III     .0875     _56.040       66, 206       75.4,94      68,2227      67,5613       64.159    _62.352s        5.125        546011-       53.036       5I.83        51.094        52._204      50.579        50.566       50.663        5   2         599          5   6
-i                Os.    2,522,~~~~~~~~1~ 00 00   h,355. 766   1.6312.h52   h658 0 I36   2 625 2210 2 692,96 h693 64I5   0 668,56h   16864,439   0,693 872   1 605 692   66906 663s                  16044 h2322 23556 h7526 60
T-t1AisiO,6  LI             is.   2~,239,009    1.~268,882   0,3_30,634   2,3~61,436   1,375.162   1,388,609   1,503998139         9129    ,2,22          1,2,53   1.374,416 1 0375 8614 1 138 205    1,382.489   0,306.678   6.392136   2 395,247  _1.40 45Q 1_405238   2 0   2                               .     3
N,heeOhsah.                         262,024      172,606       629,295      103,691      262,628      184,382      106,252       08h,785      206,695      68a,386      188,296       188,940      289,561       290,684      692,830      091,514       192,185      292,649       193,326       194,186      29   6
Zshcle,O.                          162,000       171,606      2159,695     185,9                           RI60 19.8  686,252    186,785      006,835      687,366      088,166      100,942       1895.57      193.204       190,850      696,56419682116594.686                                             69   6
Ss VO63h-s              9s-       924,005      343,6          5,9          62,562      363,206      360,262      37,1          323,520      973.610      324,272      9 _76,372     372 800      3929 24       3800566      381,606      3863029       384,370      385 6~9h      302 030~  90   2            8 2
Csss                   9s.       ~~~~~~~37,400  30,589      40,692~   42,6331         42,1:I62      43,05G4      43,94        44,497       44,521        44,640      146,824       43,205       4o,056        45,305       45,459        45,620       45,180        45,939       46,292       456,22        4842
OsOls                  is.        3,~~~ ~~202   3, 140       3,450        504          364           353          9             ,0            ,3           ,32          ,4          5764          3,29         529          504           3,017        3.630         5,444        5,077362                   5,6
Osi Ir  nOseshs.                  324201       94,3121      35,03-9       56,7138      36,326       36,0716      52,251        1 37,35      32,367       52,422       3263          32,720       3~7,923      38,631'       38,1I68       833          3,42         3,2           3, 17073     3   37        38,12
Seiters 0-2  ess6.                             120          6,62         9,3/,01                    886s,1                    8,050         8,940        0,966        8,96h        0,995         9,033        ss9          9,299         9,129        h,6            19,3        5225          9,5           ,8            ,2
osller  2 Y-3ao                   9s,        0.040         7,~20        6:,224       2:,243       0,095        h,289         0,69         h,369l       6,404        6,420         6,4301       I,65         8,402         8,525        0,553        8,5841        661:111       8,46067                     ,2h,3
Irlsse5-   ses           s,        6,02         6,642         6,6          5,3G,20                   260           2,9I,4                    7,824        7,900          ,2          792          7,96"29h                   8,203        9,20          I,t            ,9          8,2:,5                       ,1794
Bell essse              is.       64,8025      5  6,6s       22,618       25,426'      22,:690      7 23,52       24,5203      712,204      24,2314       14,954       25,214       1556         2,21          2,1             33          666         2,'874        11,042'      21.4h6        22,614       22,44
Osle  2-2acor           Is,        6,02         5,400         6,216        6,450        0,613        6,539         6,638        0,205        6,24         686           6,746        6.7151       6,602        8,024         6,47         4,010         6,094         6,919        6,945         6,862        6,99
tsr,2-3  e. ys..5, 6h ,h22                                            4,2582       5,5          548            ,555        5,5462       5,327         5,364        5,512        5,306        5,569         53.350       3,313        5 ,3h         5 5,5,21                   5,4           5,665,655,0
Milin 3.4 osesi      Os.       ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~4,240O  5,280  3.460  4,324      4,03         4,2           4,833        4,504        4.506         4,506        4,462        4,463        4,472         4,4836        4,5014       4,329,       4.1,43        4,559l       4,1            ,9,0
.el. .-.  ..e..s                             3,460        4,200         4,963        522          4,065        4,548         4,532        4,543        4.234        4,245         4,236        4,694        4.196         4,208        4,226         4,243        4,251         4,21         4,6           436,2
iles  hdi  hl-e S ...ses       _hs.        3002         6,4020        6,611        6,431        2612         6.923        6,846         6,525        6,244        3.809        554           094          32h          5.196         5,197        5,044         5,144    ~ 5,152    ~ 5,163              5  2          ,9
0s2,,  ts,tses     s.       165,209      292,903      200,8604     704,396       2072,35      200.3~53     222,450       202,1209     712,30       0212,102     21,4          1.2           14. 282     214 9636_56                2~ 22         -202.056     217.8000      260542       20  30        220 06
4,,0  CsN s                                  32,402        32,490       40,041       42, 195      35,:021       60,9~45      69:2,60       24,503       1474 71  94:,734          24,555        15,2         75,576       25,627           % 76,12   2639          16,606i      76,874        7,5          146264
4,21  OlIn             4,         9,60          0,0           .8           ,6           ,6 60        9             ,2           ,0           ,3           9,46         9.6          9408         944           941          9,0            ,42         9,56          9.69         9,42          966          0,70
hsl   9rhr                          ,           ,03         1,14         1,22            81                1,23  6267         12,90         6,204        8.3093       0,367        6,520         632          1325         2370          6,336        1,41,344                   2,349          ,5           ,1            ,6
sihr-e3-4ysN.lo.                                            -                                       -            -            -            .             -                                                                                                                                                         
sleiss 0-8 lesss   ts.      6,000         5,400        6,~~~~~~~~~~~~~2120  :6,61  12,9072    13,21~1      14,382f      25,646       06,03116  26,85            06,065       08,9317      172,OhS       62,06'66     221~1297      62,27        1:27,13       172,27       12,336        81,61        12,41
Mes2-3, yees9,                            6,0            3,02         2,28.3                     ,2            ,8           ,3           ,4            ,940        0,094        856          8,0            92          695          998923                     806910.60                                9,429,7
Osise 41 ,e                         O.       2,             3,500        4,036         0,54         0,h62       01,378       66,636       089,261       67,440       22669        62,648       12,421        27,46         755           70          12,479       h272367       6729          6,51791292
Stres  010cr 66cr S Yts-           3s.       21,62           ,2         1,2          40,0         4,85          49,364       40,058       50,0I60        642         33887        32,397       31.46~4       30,32 4      30,010       3,00          33.iQ005     30,009        30,054       3.2            020         3,9
Ss6eI Ns-bre-s                        90,000       94,463        96,6         1,0          3,47        142,203       158,021      065,938      263,069      1_62,931      161.410      L60.764      660,499       162,495      160,113 ,   161,092        66.5           6,5          6,1           6,1          6,2
CelalriOst               0         60            60            60           68           60           00           60            00           60           tO            60           60           6             60           69            67           60            60           60            60           60
Mstlt   es"-.1lO- Ceise        0         20             20           26           2            20  20                      20          02           20     20            2                  2             20           20           20            20           70            20            228                       2
-hsihe -e         0         42            48            40           4h           40           41           40            49           40           40            40           40           40            42           40            40           40           60            40            404
-As%                                                                          6                                     6 6  6       6                   6                                6 6                 6                   6             8                          6            6             6
CsllIsget-sc                                    6'            6             1            8            9           20           ii            Il           122 I                                   12           12            12           1 2          12            1.2           12           2621
-ssOe                  5         25             05           65           65            15'          I5           25           25            1,5          15,          15           65            65           iS            15           13            75     5            15                  65            i
Oshh/hseRetis                                  10            00           10           10                         1            10            10           20           10           18             0           22           12            10           68            10            10            0100
Oi  e-irr1lhis             sst        40            68            46           48           46           49           48            46           41           40            46           46           40            46           46            40           48            46           48            48           4
Cs%OelOr                             36.0           36.8         36.          54.           38.2         36.3         36.7         36,9          37.0         37.6         52.2         37.3          32,.3        90.          33.3     .3   3I3.4                       7, .4           437.4                  33.
Ociss-le2 Y--oS.ld                   s                               6                   8           20           62           83            64           45           65           85            I5           41            05           i5            05           15            IS0                        58
Nee2:9yi :,IsId                  2.                        3            3            5             7                         l            2            2 I0                      10           60I     0                  10            74           00            10           10            6i                         1
Meleel-5  vretl OslO  4   5              5            5          ~~~           ~~~          ~~~          ~~~          ~~~         ~     ~ ~~~ ~              ~     ~ ~~~~12  15  12  22  24  23  25  2  25  2525  2               2905                        5           2             25           25
SteeeotIIIshn-t sYes-8s02l   5                 3I            3            35            35           35           35           95            35           35           35           35935353                                                            53                        55            9355 
st-1 0stest 6.l                      0                                      6            11           8.2          8.8          9.3           99           99           9.7          9.6           9.5          9.5          9.4           9.4          9.4           9.4           9.4          949.                        ,
Li,es  =  I O       ,irl 000  89.2.2  sel    0.3 4.2.1 sere  1-2 ye--      0.66A...; heier 2-3 y-er-   0.25 8,.6.  heifer 3-4 y--e = 0.9 A,.1.
6ee23  ere=0.0 8.2.; s,el  34 yee- - 0.95 0.0.2  -1-r 4-5 yss=1.2 A.U.1 btsll/-tee   slIe  this S ru-  = 1.2 2.4.



MAL,
le-d lovove  root,l   0h the hroj~ect
unit.     D3ep-                              2                         1.           5           6            7            2             p             1             11           12            .3         i4-20
Cows                             Ne.        540,000         572,020       60,4,097    002,_ i1'    668,176      691, 724    726,413      742,689       765,400       765,400      74 ,40 , "     765,400      765,400      765,400      765,100
Nulls                            lie.        54,000I         57,202        4-3,28       .4,2e>       46,773       .4,4.4      0,1,49       51,915       531,578       53,174        53,578        531,575      53,578       53,578        53,578
Heifer Calves                    No.        110,000         137,285        4,P42,    162,694        74,500      i83,030    189,56,       156,251     2,2,525        202,535-'    202,525        2'02,525     202,525      202,525       202,525,
Heifera 1-2 years                No.        L20,00          10 i3,100     a30O421      1I, 27,      I 56, 184    165,729    175,705       151,980)     i86,40i       191,4324     344'. 14,421,  11,4L        194q  o      14,42Ii4,h~   j94,424
Hinfers 2-3 years                ND.        114,000         .12,500        98,.'30     .1~,2P04      37,1,       s'5  ") ,931             it,38 1,681  274,701       .60,465    106,61,          L52, 47      156,617      1966147       156,647
Heffers 3 - 4 Years              No.        103,000D        108,020      .01,901       9)2, ''4-~    85,269       97,060    105,805      114,952       1q,1940       i23.252     .1,2            1,8o5 I4.,835             .,838        131,555
Soil Calves                      Wo.         90.100         102,961,      116,017       219, 71     147,~3       0'.2 !,525    157,969    163,542      168,774,     O.6,771    .65,771           118,771      .65,771      264,771      165",771
Males -1-2 years                 No.       I100,00           19,210o       90,268      10) 630       15, i40     1058,1P00    P,4          ,Ii 25       31,469       146, 704,    ul6 700,        3, 701     236,704      106 701      .136,704
Mel ee   2-3 Yeses               110.        85,oo      000                11 (00 7i281  81 045       ( oo  -     817 5 6     541 599      72,602       60,312        '.7,689     O.9, ul1        49,21.44,l 49, 214 1,;)                 49,214.
Ml elo    3-4 yearo              Ns.         70,000          52,720        56,45 0      2            78, 56       87,209     54, 0016      51 21        69,695B       57,900     ('5              4710121>     17,245       47,245       417, 24,
Malee  lI 45 Years               No.          .1000          62,00         71 966       7 13,       i5    2       6A,410         275      61, '2'       -7,662        49, 233     41,             325Q             '             4         51544
OteoOlder lIhr 5) yeas,       o.5.0..2  7                              '0 62        5 59          4,64        40o1        1,86         2,2              5          011         705 ~ ~ 142                                 2
lotol Nulsoore  No.  L500010  1,5)8 756    1 624 253   L,714 200   1 S'S o4'   1 S97,0~00 ,9m2' 5   4>9~1,020 216     1 P,2__ 2  1~94.__   95i200 9k-127__1,,98 __3 _579, l24
lIe. (or lelucO         1100~~~~TI.  112.010       271 o26      18  051.91, L 1'7           0174    L,~77            0   '      20o2         212             4.0         1   0 2 ,        1 ~:0 41                           >1 0,14,o
l1ll r-vo                       lO.         14.00           11  6         184  50       2,1 5046                 ,1                      T`2,7  2.,6372  241,0      ?41,111t   2451,10          2o 12l iI     41 Ill      2,60          h,0
Costs                            No.        3,2,400          38,550        33,902       28,360       25,986       30,255      31,551       1,8          34,267        1~5,377     35,547          35,721       4559  5,8)OM90            35,5%9
hiulls                           No.          3,240           3,280         2,560        1,933        1,770        1,571       1,937        2,006        2,077         2,1431       2,143          2,143        2,143        2,14,         2,1.:
Hei2e- Calves                    Nio.        32,4oo          34,321        35,005       33,323       33,676       34,563      36,107       37,351       35,576        38,576      48,576          38,576       38,576       38,375   ~    6, 76
Hleifers -1-2 years              N..          7,200           6,600         6,561t       5,970        6, 5083      7,072       7,321        7,583        7,850         5,103       8,101           5, 101.      5,101        5,111         6, 101
Heiefers -2-3 Years              No.          6,540           7,200         5,170        5,217        5,731        6,247       6,789        7,028        7,279         7,536        7,777          7,777        7,777        7,777         7,777
Hifolers- 3-4 years              No.          6,120           6,540         5,64o        3,929        3,756        4,002       4,363        1,742        4,I909        5,084       5,263           5.4`7        547   5,4~7         5,4      17
Null Calves                      No.         64,500          68,642        55,173       66,646       63,143       65,368      67,701      70,090        72,330        72,330      72,30           71,330       72,3310      72,3411,     72,334
Males I-2 Years                  No,          6,000           5,400         5,l48        4,643        5,175        5,593       6,101        6,319        6,542         6,751       6,751           6,751        5,751        6,751        6,751
Males 2-8 years                  No,          5,250           6,000         5,960        3,707        4,225        4,6o6       5,157        5,156        5,245         5, 299       5,465          5,468        5,468        5,468         1.,661
Males 3-4 years                  No.          4,900           5,250         4,550        2,551        3,2~62       3,634       3,500        3,384        2,904         2,4129       1,905          1,965        1,969         1,9)69       1,96,9
Maled 4-5 years                  No,          3,66o           4,200         4,156        3, 455       2,737        3, 131.     3,485        3.360        3,249         2?,755       2,316          1,531        1,590c       1,590         I,591
Stvers Older than 5 years        No,.          ,0             6,66o     ~     5,85       4,41         4,677        _,_.,_55,,~ 30   ~                      59          2,723       2.325           1,870        1,390        1,8124
Total Numhers                      175,.14o        193.003       150,970      1,68          6,66        170,863    127570        1853,39588417               189,11 ~2- 65855 -----18,21- 15,19                                 17,7
Isales
:,IP  Cow,                      No.         52,',00         '32,400       44,041       45,325       56,905       26,518      75,090       55,970       96 ,)20       107,1.56    107,156        .07,156       107,156      107,156      107,,56
Su,l. lul ls                     No.          5,100           8,1.00        9,152        5,659        7,967        8,4ig       5,71i6       4,017        9,345         ),644e       9,640,         4~,61'.      9,644        9, .40.      9),414
Cull Heifers                     No.          1,030           1,140         2,3D56       1,965        3,756        4,126,      4,498        1l,,8B       5,060         5,241        5,426,         5,42,21      142_6        5, 424       l-42E
Heifers 3-4 years                No.           -- -                                -            -            -                  -            -             262        17,595      23,123          20,701       32,735       32,738       32,738
Males 1-2 years                  No.          6,000           5,400         5,145        5,8o4        9,056       13,260      16,775       20,536       24,531        25,316      25,316          25,316       95,5,16      25,316        25,316
Males 2-3 years                  No.         10,000           3.100         3,960        7,413       oo,563       231,028     35,41,4      51,858       65,557        79,451      52,022          52.022       52,022       52,020       82,022
Males 4-5 years                  No,         10.500           5301C         6,618        9,510        9,582,      13,309      17,4112      19,3,22      20,304        17,425       14,475         11,445       11,511        L1,811       11,811
leer  Older than 5 yeeeu       P0 1,670                    4oq23,88                      680       t,8 42       53,877      59                                                    ,,7           05t9:2        ,,l>21   9
uelN,ouber,                      9---9---11,3                              1743          5,92        1253         1  755,9855,5_306,780  305,519                                     3050         27.4           9j82~,
Produetlo,s Sets
Calving6 Rate                                 6o              6(            61           61           63          63          63           63            6~3           63          63              63           63           63           63
Moe,taloty Rate-Heifer Calves                 20)             20            19           17           16           16          i6           16           16            16           16             16           16           16            16
-lull Calves                   40              4o            37           31,          30           30          30           30           30                  30                    J 30         30 513                      0
-Adults                         6               6             5                         4 4         4            4                  4                    4     4             4              4                  4             4
Colling Nate-Cows                              6               6             7            5            9           10          11           12           23            14          11,             14           14          1IL           14
-Bulls                           15              15            16           15           15           18          18           18           18            18~          18             18           1-8          18            15
-Heifers                          I               1             2            2            3            3           3            3            3              3           3              3333
R,ll/Cosw Ratio                   5           10              10             8            7            7            7           7            7            7             7            7              7            7            7            7
Age at. First Calvinog         Months         1       46             4       138         ,     45           45    1*            5           45           15            45          45              45           45           45           4,
C-ss/Total Hierd                              36              36.5         317.2         36.9         ?64,5        36.5        36.6C        37.o         35.0          35.3        38.5            15b.4        38.7         35.7         38.7
Males 1-3 years "lol                         n ce.             6             5            5            7            9          11           13           15            15           I,             15           15           15           15
Males 2-3 years Sold                         e.a               3             5            5           10           P0          30           40           50            60          60              60           60           64,          60,
Males 4-5 years Sold                         n.soa.55                                    21           114          17          20           23           25            25           25             25           25           25           25
steers Older than   yeses Sold  5,            .5,             35            .8           48           50           55          60           66           66            6F,         66              66           66           66           66
Total 101t1,1 Raet                             6       ~       .7.3                       5.0          8.U.         9,6        11,0         12.5         134           11,3        15.3            15.2         15.0 1,4.9                14.9
I  Cost = 1 An! ml Usit (A.1..; calf   ). 3 A.U1.  Iear-r - 0.6 A.0.1 1,ci f-    v-eoaro   0. 75 A.1.1 hei fer 3-4 yve-   r. 1) A.4',;
msle 2-5 3Years   05. A1T.1,  Made 3-'- yeses =0 .95 A,.,. osl m 4Ic "y-  = I.. A.' .; lolI st-or oller 'h-s  - yeses   1,1 2A.11.
Jesse 2, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 3
MALI
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ecremeneutl Beef and Mert Productiou fro, the Cattle Herd
(MF mfllio.)
Cltn
Price/         Before                                                                                  Pro1ect Year
(MB)       Developenut          1       2        3        4       5        6        7       8        9       10      11       12       13       14       15      16       17       18       19      20
A. Without the Project
Beef
Cull Cows                           25,000             810            810   1,001   1,195   1,378   1,514   1,690   1,863   1,868   1,868   1,874   1,882   1,889   1,896   1,902   1,908   1,915   1,922   1,929   1,935   1,942
Cil1 Bulls                          57,800             468            468     496      518      531      525     533      538      540     540      542      544     546      548      550      552      553     555      557      559      561
Cu11 Peifers                        22,000              23             25       25      21       27       28      29       28       29      29       29       29       29      29       29       29       30       30      30       30       30
Heifers - 3-4 Years                 22,000                                                                  -           -            -            -        -       -        -        -        -
Males 1-2 Years                     16,000              96             86      99      138      176      209     230      250      269     269      270      271     272      273      274      275      276     277      278      279      289
Mlles 2-3 Years                     27,500             275             83       65     125      178      178     246      246      246     243      244      244      245     246      247      248      249      250     251      251      252
Meles 4-5 Years                     54,400             588            190     225      465      553     619      905      989      960     962      960      951     951      954      958      962      965     968      971      975      918
Eteeca Older thao  5 Years          57.800           1.253          2,365   1.955   2,341   2.589   2.334   2.315   2.200   2.105   1.959   1,873   1,819   1.777   1.752   1.739   1.734   1.735   1.737   1.741   1,746   1,751
Sub Total                                       3,513          4,027   3,866   4,803   5,432   5,407   5,948   6,114   6,017   5,870   5,792   5,740   5,709   5,698   5,699   5,708   5,723   5,739   5,757   5,775   5,794
Milk 2/                                                  972          1,030   1.07S   1.102   1.090   1.106   Ijg18   1.121   1.121   1.124  _1.129   1.134   1.137   1.141   1.145   1,149   1,153   1,157   1,161   1,165   1,169
T17TAL                                          4,485          5,057   4,941   5,905   6,522   6,513   7,066   7,235   7,136   6,994   6,921   6,874   6,846   6,839   6,844   6,857   6,876   6,896   6,918   6,940   6,963
B.  With the Projget
Bee,f
Cull Co-e                           25,000             810            810   1,001   1,208   1,423   1,670   1,902   2,149   2,410   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679   2,679
Cull Bulls                          57,800             468            468     529      503      406     487      504      522     540      557      557     557      557      557      557      557      557     557      557      557      557
Cull  elifers                       22,000              23             25      50       43       83       91      99      108      I11     115      119      119     119      119      119      119      119     119      119      119      119
Heifers - 3-4 Years                 22,000               -              -        -       -        -        -       -        -        6     387      509      631     720      720      720      720      720     720      720      720      720
Melee - 1-2 Years                   16,000              96             86      82       93      145     212      268      329      393     405      405      405     405      405      405      405      405     405      405      405      405
Moles - 2-3 Years                   27,500             275             83     109      204      290      633   1,057   1,426   1,803   2,186   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256   2,256
Melee - 4-5 Years                   54,400             588            190     360      517      521     724      949   1,051   1,105       948      787      623     643      643      643      643      643     643      643      643      643
SteensOlder then 5 Veers            57800                                                                      3,108   3.271  2.822   2.596   2.217                            47   1.186   1.186 15186    .t86_ 1.186   1186__ 1.18
Sub lstal                                       3,513          4,027   5,128   5,787   6,247   6,931   7,887   8,856   9,190   9,873   9,529   9,054   8,704   8,646   8,565   8,565   0,565   8,565   8,565   1,565   8,565
Milk 2/                                                  972          1,030   1,105   1.176   1,263   1,307   1,354   1.402   1.447   1.447   1,447   1,4444 7 14747   1 1.44,447   1447   1,,447
TOTAL                                           4,485          5,057   6,233   6,963   7,510   8,238   9,241  10,258  10,637  11,320  10,976  10,501  10,151  10,093  10,012  10,012  10,012  10,012  10,012  10,012  10,012
C.  ENCREMENTALE BEYE  AND
MILK PRODUCTION                                                    -      _   1,292   1,056       988   1,725   2,175   3,023   3,499   4,326   4,055   3,627   3,305   3,254   3,168   3,155   3,136   3,116   3,094   3,072   7,291-'
1/ Based ou  ecomic beef pricee of:  MB 340 per kg osrc-su  c,eight (Asnex 2, pore 14) for export qleity cattle c(.ll bulle, -sles 4-5 years, esd steers older thee 5 years);      250 per kg carcass iwsight for 2-3 yeer old
feeder steers to be fattened in Mali's southerm  region; and MP 200 per kg carcesae veight at Mopti-S6vare m,rket for doeesticIlly coueeu,d ctttle  (cull cows, heifers, cod meles 1-2 year. old).
2/  Cawo  ix milk follofin  clvino raer: 150 liter- mil per veer per c.ov fr f-h-mu   nnne -n,, e- MB 0 7cr liter.
8epteeber 4, 1974.



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Incremental Meat and Milk Production from Sheep and Goats
No. of Sheep   No. of          Value                                 Value         Total Value
and Goats /1   Sales /2   of Sales /3    Milk Production /4   of Milk /5           of Production   Inoremental Production
('000)          ('000)    (MF million)         ('000 1)          (MF million)   (MF million)               (MF million)
Before Development            2,000           600         1,800           15,300                306              2,106
End of Project Year
1                     2,000           600         1,800           15,300                 306             2,106                         -
2                     2,060           618         1,854           15,759                 315             2,169                         63
3                     2,122           637         1,911           16,233                 325             2,236                        130
4                     2,186           656         1,968           16,723                 334             2,302                        196
5                     2,252           676         2,028           17,228                 345             2,373                        267
6                     2,320           696         2,088           17,748                 355             2,443                        337
7                     2,390           717         2,151           18,284                 366             2,517                       411
8                     2,462           739         2,217           18,834                 377             2,594                       488
9-20                   2,500           750         2,250           19,125                 383             2,633                       527
/1 3% herd increase per year from PY 2-9.
/2- 30% extraction rate.
/3 Carcass weight 12 kg at MF 250 per kg.
/4 45% of sheep and goat flocks are ewes/goats of which 85% give 20 liters milk
per year for human consumption.
/5 MF 20 per liter.
September 4, 1974.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Qualifications Required for ODEM's Senior Staff
Director
An experienced administrator, preferably with some formal training
in the biological sciences, and with at least 10 years experience in Et iLead-
ing position in Africa.  He will be required to direct a mixed team of Malian
and expatriate staff; he will hold responsibility for an annual budget of
some US$2 million and he will negotiate and provide liaison with Government
departments and international agencies. He must command respect and have an
understanding of pastoral peoples. He should be conversant in French and
preferably English and be between 40 and 60 years old.
Deputy Director
A graduate in agriculture, animal production or veterinary science,
capable of providing technical and administrative support to his Directcr
and, when necessary, assuming full responsibility for the affairs of an
interdisciplinary development agency.  He should have at least 10 years-
experience in Africa, mostly in pastoral areas, and preferably in both
East and West Africa.  Previous responsibility for development program-, in
pastoral areas would be highly desirable. He should be conversant in P'rench
and English and be between 40 and 55 years old.
Range Management Officer
A graduate in a biological science, with qualification in rarga
management, and with an intimate understanding of the ecology of arid lands
in Africa. He must be fully competent in aerial photo interpretation.
Previous experience with range development programs would be desirable.
Ile will participate in, and probably lead, interdisciplinary range surveys,
assess livestock carrying capacities, and be required to develop and ayp.y
methods for assessing range conditions and trends. He should be willing to
accept extended periods of field work, be conversant in French and English
and be between 25 and 45 years old.
Water Development Officer
A graduate in hydrogeology (or in hydrology with a working knowl-
edge in hydrogeology) with a broad understanding of rural water developLaent
in Africa based on at least six years postgraduate experience. He will
participate in interdisciplinary surveys, site surface reservoirs and wi!lls,
supervise construction teams and interpret the hydrological and hydro-
geological implications of soil and geological samples.  Within reasonable



ANNEX 14
Page 2
limits, he will be able to draw on consultant advice, but must be capable
to a large degree of functioning independently and effectively in remote
areas and under harsh conditions. He must be conversant in French, and
should be 30-40 years old.
Livestock Research Officer
A graduate in animal production or veterinary science with at
least three years postgraduate experience in animal production in Africa.
He will be required to direct an experimental station for forage and
livestock production and be responsible for its livestock component.
His work will include feeding trials with zebu cattle and small ruminants
and work on parasite and insect control. Some experience in conducting
and preferably designing and directing animal research is required. The
officer should be conversant in French and preferably English and should
be 30-45 years old.
Pasture Agronomist
A graduate in agriculture or animal production with specializa-
tion in pasture research, including at least three years postgraduate
experience in irrigated tropical grass production. He will be required
to design and implement experimental programs for the rehabilitation and
management of floodplain grasslands and irrigated pastures, involving the
simulation of flooding regimes. Additionally, he will participate in
interdisciplinary surveys in the inundated zone of the Niger delta. In
his research activities he will work in liaison with and under the direction
of the Livestock Research Officer. He should be conversant in French and
preferably English, and be 30-45 years old.
Livestock Economist
A graduate in a biological science with postgraduate training in
economics or a graduate in economics with several years experience in the
agricultural sector. Experience in collecting and handling socioeconomic
and livestock statistics is essential, as is a working knowledge of the
theory of samples and of the commoner forms of statistical and economic
analysis. The officer will be responsible for collecting and analyzing
herd statistics, leading or participating in livestock censuses by combined
aerial and ground sampling techniques, and for determining the economic
viability of specific investment programs. He will participate in inter-
disciplinary surveys and must be prepared for extended periods of field
work. He should be conversant in French, and be 30-40 years old.
Comunity Development Officer
A graduate in a social science or education, or an experienced
educational or extension officer. The essential requirement would be
an ability to collect and interpret socioeconomic data related to pastoral



AIN\EX 14
Page 3
peoples. An understanding of forms of cooperative organization adapted to
African pastoral conditions is desirable, as would be a knowledge of the
theory and practice of teaching functional literacy. He will participat:e in
interdisciplinary surveys, collect census data, evaluate social organiz;tions
and attitudes, and assist in designing and evaluating forms of organization
for the Seno Mango area.  He will also provide liaison with the Functioral
Literacy Service in testing and developing literacy programs.  He shoult 'e
conversant in French and preferably Peuhl, and be 35 to 55 years old.



ANNEX5 15
Cost OCr-s    Foreign
lsvootswnt Costs - 30576.930  toO Osaarmstleo    1)~~~~3 253    370C,-                ~        ,>          22.6a       233,54        361.2        (84.0)                             42
3/ ink's cod n-                              28sot  2.23  4  2 >3       -., 2'',73                    '4                                    ( 42 '"~4 44.6)                     59
opor-tlog Coals    Salatt- a')oToo                                 73,3221061,-    23,3,0)                                 377.2         637.3      1,310.5        (18.9)                             63
-Coo...ttOtsl 1070400                                -      a.3           2-o-                                      12.0 I        33912.13         -                            108
- Salsoloaoo..oa of lsilOiozs & Cosstrsnolzo4/,23'  17,430  '>' '' ~~~~~~~~~ 2.333  31.3.  33.1       93.3        (14.0)                             42)  4
- Oollolo  (355-49  Coo-, &- 3o~P2s-aono)  o.               33"77                                       4.1         197,1         290.9       (32.7)                             66
0- Ch-r                                        !..'        33c'c___                       32            93.3         539.6        246.7       (2.03                              39
S,ibtotsi                                                     3252        3'- 3 V '"' '  34)                         ,028.0       0,337.9      2,406.7       (Z56.0)              19.8           57
bootsatCosts  7.. 3'7dI~    an   aon,ta                       34?.        4,"          ''5(2                         193.7        186.6         3.3         (53.3)                             3
- 'OolOoIos aod 3rvi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zoo,1  33,3          3 ~~~~~"I   (n'3310)           1 t.7 ~     32.9         120.3       (34.3)                             61
OsaogCoats  - CaI-IS3 -1' -9,oZ                              233 -7723)                                              3o31.2             -        396.1I      (20.2)                              8
- !o2olnoton of 2oI.al..   c Csosstreetl.nc   3,3              323)          93.)         13.6          25.3        (6.3)                             435.  13.4 28.5  (.3)  4
- Vohootos 33oo02og Coot,. 3 2oa1sootso~rn)44.81'    3 '3"                     C 9.4         3~9.        3 11.6        341. 2      (33.6)                             68
- tusarol Adoto!oln-os3on                                        242'         ~~~~     ~    ~~~~        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~74.7  1.3  13.3  (3.4)    80
Subtota1l,2 l35'    22,~                                                                      _ 1 2'0 (0    3         9172.3        095.1      3,469.7       (300.6)              13.0           34
1II.  08001'Aotos SoalO'3 S-"go.s
--vot-os  Costs -  slo's00  oosvotIs0   2                                        3,1-73                       42             9.1          73.5        163. 3       (25.8)                             45
- ''o:lo  .o  3 -040t                   20,  '      3350           0'0  "      '~'   -2.3        71.7        125.9        300.0        (57.9)                             61
op-taiog Costa       oa'o    o   I~'                                     2      -.                        00' 4(03         3 '   2           -      1,393.3        (39.3)                              0
- 05'4000002'0.- 01 3nI1'7'o~t & C.. o00004400  2n,.97  6,~237  s',  ?'' f5643)          44,50         33.9          -3.6       (12.5)                             45
-Vliio(.obnto.g Coals     s & Rep o- 0 *   -3 -14    1393                           .23           32.0         395.4         648.)      (162.1)                             61
lOnorot 3lso2~~~~~~~~~~~~          33    3~~~24,730.724                              373.1         499.3         832.6       (93.1)                             60
G- 0'or,  AOdnSlo,-too22                                     363                           375.8                     1-5.3         51.1        (5.)  I30
S,Ib-ot.                                                     9o'jO '0     513,3735        2   1      (300,422)      2,030.3       1,147.3      3,177.5       (420.2)             26.0            36
IV.  foods nd Wells
Foods.  Popstnybo                                                     ,522      13143o                        `3333         10.3          30.9         41.3         (0.6)                             75
- Coostoostioa no6 Ooootootoioo nO 9,,sota'sotloo,  32,303  3~0_5.320  '53 5~o"    (23 633)       230.0         456.5        330.0        (37.0)                             88
- Poisslosesoo                               ll,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rcCob  44,30           ,03           24.5         93.0        '123.9        (12,2)                             89
titus - Feopoooo.ory',Ycov2.o         1,203      23,333                         3373         15.1         42.3          93.5         (3.6)                             34~~~~~~~~~~~i,1  42.7 57.  (3.)  7
-Coosor-tio, 'oa0.fnooo   f  5020sl.                       7  1o       ..,                             37           2,        1,393,9       2,621.0      (64A. 45_                            68
S,,btolal                                                     23'3,2512~ I ,093 I'C(.,3                               391.0       3,421.3      3422          (257.6)             26.0            71
V.  Hoot4 AhsIta4r.-104o  tono7ooo4
I1v-toot Costa  ILs Fo-p,,ontloo                                                                                             LI  33  .       -            .L(61
i-,COo013orl,                                  39-26        3.378d3                                      7.3         66.3         034.2       (74.2)                             43
-Otiittiot                                          33'I,7                              '3              22.7         23.4          43. 1        (7.5)                             50
- Coo43,soot                            2                       ,1o32)        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13.6  2.4.2  63.8  (9.1)           53
sO Cono2'ocllo.a   ..,/                                     (333)           3~~    ~ ~~~~        ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4  71.3  26.3  (09,)      80
u til--no                                                                                (747V_ ~ ~ -)   3.2          3.3           8.3         (3.1)                            40
u i    -ootoouo                                    ''          '                             .          La).          9.9          23.8         (3.4)                            43
-   l  1o. ieio                                                                           7373  2~)      5.0          5. 2         532.2        (2.8)                            53
-O0he0r2                                                                                 5I1              .7          8.6          14.3         (0.3)                            60
Subtolt                                                             '       "            4"! 7  'to2   `''.:'43        221.5        162.6         204.1       (53.1)                3.2          42
VI. l.vsotook M,,ktbol
Iov-t-st  -t. t- C-so  "solo  2 9          '. .       10                                                       ,s32)          4.3          03.0          1.33.      (35.3)                             49
Op-o.tf-g Coot,    Sata---  .'n03.'n40--                                                                        23'          9.3 .3           .         49.0        (2.5)                              0
Iototovsoone   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3   0 ~~~~~~~~'~ 7.33                        215          03,3          22.3        (3.4)                             49
ot -     . 34,a.&3                                                                                           .           4.77          12         (                                 40
S,,eotot 1                                                                   L''3                        ,733          264.7        307.7         272,4        (30.4)               0.3  -        40
VI"   vest-'ot Cooto.  3o63l,i,-'o-oano  C-ttnI   'i-n                 57,003       0', ~-  00                 M,,'353       '93.3.3                      221,6      0(3.2)                               43
/.h',o    o  33o20.~                                                                                                310.1         55.9       (14.3)                             61
U- .t-ollk                                                                                   -           0.3-                       79             .                               0
op-orstn  Costs    Salorl-  s-o  :4,o                                    '      023'02        20  431       2 .02           44, 5        133.3         366.3        (8.4)                             51
-z I                                            q0ooOoo  , 3.1  7 231          3 73 3                   21-.8         25.0         37.6         (5.6)                             42
- intlotos (tootin'C-Coto 43so1, o,ot3 1.              5.00n, 34* '                                2.3           2.            1.         (53.6)                             61
- I.I'on.2oo3   3.243             -                          -          47.9             -         07.9            '                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~179 
Sohtoto2                                                      317?_,47703527j                          5 ,33           49           523. 7      3,003,3      (330.3)                8 .2         33
0001.  Crs6o,4ne                                          72 422      1- .00i                        2'2          7~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~2,79~  333 5.44.3                       .053
Thysiasi Cosllogonolas 4/                94,373     239,? 7        '000  ,00'7  ,273)           473,0         426.3         693.0      (115.5)                0.10         7846.1  65.4  (15.3)5.0  7
Frito Cootboooia  C/1410                                                      2'. 20            4O2('-,73                02           2,200 3      4.082.7       (614.2)3.03
Sobcotal OcInOson                                            ,0.9    ,.o2I              ,...         ,      .        2231         2317          5,014.4L     (329.4)               40.0           53
00s123 2OTAL 3133344f 2_10~'S                                     .nIfl-22    ,..~.                                      9.;39,., 04,1  3I7,700.0    (2.3t8:2)                                        52
T-CxsaeIooddS   c:   et
2/S-ee-so  6. ltlo I n 2 ;Acao 7, toblo 2obono3,t_o7  otAos  3,.010
3/  Pint  oot,agaois  Coo sot; o  nO43 0003.000080o..oy OoCt,1oonv,60-t 70.2'.'.o'-,'o.o'  o   'voooo r32.oo o,too.oned Osr497o4S 151,,197, (3        1975975  ad
123. 1o 936  -0 toh a2oo.-        oooao4'3teroo.s   oosi   Wn ...;,tn    Vso-21. .o-74  0.t4,71-oo495hod7.7 14150co    hosice.   ho13.SoroseI
4934 has-o  toot, snlobs  o'  sIfn.n  .osga,,lrooIto,    o--'.. -aoll "i  ts1t,                                   '
Jaoosy 13, 1975



ANNEX 16
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Cost Phasing
(MF '000)
---------------------- Project Year --------------------
1            2            3            4              5                Total
I. ODEM - Headquarters
Investe-t t Costs - Buildings and Coostraction                       252,100            -             -            -             -            252,100
- Vehicles and Equipment                            58,850       12,450            -             -             -             71,300
Operating Costs - Salaries sod Wages                                  94,460        99,060       99,060       99,060        63,060             454,700
- Consultant's Services                               12,000       18,000       12,000        12,000             -             54,000
- Maintenance of Buildings & Construction                  -       10,500       10,500        10,500        10,500             42,000
- Vehicles (Runoin  Costs & Replacements)             24,985       26,485       26,485        26,485        26,485            130,925
- Credit Trials                                            -        3,000        3,000         3,000         3,000             12,000
- Others                                              20.600       11.600       11.600        11.600        10,600             66,000
Subtotal                                                         462,995      181,095       162,645      162,645       113,645           1,083,025
11. 00KM - pastor1 Service
Investment Costs - Buildings and Cnstruction                          47,200       83,880       28,800             -             -             159,880
- Vehicles and Equipment                             28,850          900       26,650             -             -             56,400
Operating Costs  - Salaries sod Wages                                 30,940       43,700        58,120       61,000        61,000             254,760
- Maintentaco  of Buildings                               -        1760        2,720        4,160          4,160             12,800
- Vehicles (Running Costs & Replacesents)            17,595       18,195       34,755        34,755        34,755            140,055
- General Administration                              5.370        7.130        8.330        8.330          8.330             37,49
Subtotal                                                         129,955      155,565       159,375      108,245       108,245             561,385
111. ODEM - Aninal Health Services
Inve-st-et Costs - Buildings and Constroctism                         12,000       61,500             -            -             -              73,500
- Vehicles sod Equipment                            90,480         2,000            -             -             -             92,480
Operating Costs  - Salaries sod Wages                                101,520       101,520      111,300      111,300       111,300             536,940
- Msinteanre of Buildings & Construction             6,000         6,300        8,440        8,440          8,440             37,620
- Vehicles (Running Costs & Replacement)             58,020       58,420       58,420       58,420         58,420            291,700
- Vaccines, Drugs, Medicaneors & Mineral Blocks      79,850       97,550       67,630       62,550         67,060            374,640
- General Adcinist-ati.o                              3,000        5.000        5.000        5.000          5.000             23,000
Subtotal                                                         350,870      332,290      250,790       245,710       250,220           1,0.29,880
IV. Poods sod Wells
Ponds - Preparatory WorkS                                             13,880        4,640             -            -             -              18,520
- Construction sod Supervlsiooi of Construction                190,550       65,950            -             -             -            256,500
- Maintenance                                                        -            -                                   55,000             55,000
- Physical Contingencies                                        19,055        6,595            -             -         5,500             31,150
Wells - Preparatory Works                                             26,000            -             -            -             -              26,000
- Construction sod Supervision of Construction                 428,815      385,470      365,160             -             -          1,179,445
- Maintenance
- Yhysical Cuntingencien                                        83.750       74.640       72.550             -             -            210,940
subtotal                                                         762,050      537,295      437,710             -        60,500           ,717,555
V. Mopti Abhttoir - Ride Drving FacilitZ
Investment Costs - Site Preparation                                      500            -            -             -             -                500
- Civil Works                                       69,400             -            -            -              -             19,400
- Utilities                                         20,300             -            -            -              -              0,300
- Equipment                                         19,700             -            -            -              -             19,700
- Engineering Servloes & Supervision of
Csnstruction                                     12,000            -           --            -              -             12,000
- PhysicaL Cantingencins                             6,100             -            -            -              -              6,100
Opersting Costs  - Salaries sod Wages                                  1,680        5,120        5,520         6,180         6,700             25,200
- Utilities                                             156          725          870        1,015          1,160              3,926
- Maintenance                                             -        2,200        2,560        2,700         2,880              13,340
- Vehicles                                             250           900        1,100        1,300          1,500              5,050
- Others                                                50         1.320        1.500        1.690         1.890            _,450
Subtotal                                                         130,136       10,265       11,550        12,885        14,130            173,966
VI.  Livestock Markets
Investeset Costs - Construction & Supervision of Construction         84,750            -            -             -             -             8. ,750
- Physical Contingencies                             4,250             -            -            -              -               , 250
Operating Coots  - Salaries sod Wages                                      -        5,600        5,600         5,600         5,600             2. 400
- Maintensoce                                             -        2,200        2,640        2,640          2,640             1( ,120
- Others                                                  -        1.160        1.390        1.390          1.390            _,330
Subtotal                                                          89,000        8,960        9,630         9,630         9,630            121,850
VII. Mopti Trial Station
Investment Costs - Buildings sod Const-ructio                         99,700            -            -             -             -             99,700
- Vehicles sod Equipsa-ot                           18,100         7,500            -            -              -             25,600
- Livestsck                                          2,000         1,500            -            -              -              3,500
Operating Costs  - Salaries sod Wages                                 34,770       34,770       34,770        34,770        16,770             55,850
- Maintenance                                             -        4,230        4,230        4,230         4,230              16,920
- Vehicles (Ruoning Costs and Replacements)          15,320       20,270       20,270       20,270         20,270             96,400
- Livestock                                               -        1,800        2,260        2,260          1,720              8,040
- Others                                             8.540         9.0tC        9.135        9.260         9.605              45 550
Subtota1                                                         178,430       79,080       70,665        70,790        52,595             51 560
VIII.  Tr.ii4                                                                5.420        8,910         6.270        2,460         2,460              25 520
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS EXCLUDING PRICE OOITIHOGENCTES                 2,108,856    1,313,460    1,108,635       612,365       611,425          5, 54.741
Price Contingencies 1/                                               471.884      449.914      494.681       257.445       334,977          2.,28 9OI
G1011 TOTAL PROJEIT COSTS                                          2.600,740    1.763.374    1.603.316       869.810       946.402          7.;_,642
_t See Aone 15, iootoote 3.
J.anuary 10, 1975



ANSNX 17
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Financing Plai
(US$ '000)
Livestock Gassrs       Goversaent             ODEHM             IA               Total
1. 0DEH Hesadquarters
iSvctessct Costs - Beildings and Coo.tructios                                     84.0                               476.2              586.2
- Vehicles and Equipenet                                        44.6                               113.8              158.4
Operating Costs  - Salaries and Wages                                             18.9                               991.6            1,010.5
- Consultants Services                                             -                               120.0              120.0
- Maintenance of Bnildings &
Construction                                                14.0                                79.3               93.3
- Vehicles                                                      72.7                               218.2              290.9
- Credit Trials                                                    -                                26.7               26.7
- Others                                                        22.0                               124.7              146.7
Subtotal                                                                     256.2                             2,150.5            2,406.7
Il. ODEM Pastoral Service
Investtent Costs - Buildings and Constructions                                    53.3                               302.0              355.3
- Vehicles and Eqoipsent                                        34.7                                90.6              125.3
Operating Costs  - Salaries and Wages                                             28.3                               537.8              566.1
M- aintenance of Buildings &
Constrtctios                                                 4.3                                 24.2              28.5
- Vehicles                                                      77.8                               233.4              311.2
- General Adeinistratios                                         2.4                                80.9               83.3
Subtotal                                                                     200.8                             1,268.9            1,469.7
III.  0D7H Animal Health Services
Investment Costs - Buildings and Construction                                     25.8                               137.5              163.3
- Vehicles and Equip=ent                                        57.9                                147.6             205.5
Operating Costs  - Salaries and Wages                                            928.0                               265.2            1,193.2
- Haintesance of Buildings &
Construction                                                12.5                                71.1               83.6
- Vehicles                                                     162.1                               486.1              648.2
- Vaccines, DSugs, Medicasents &
Minerals Blocks                        139.6                77.0                                616.0             832.6
- General Administration                                         5.1                                46.0               51.1
Subtotal                                                139.6              1,268.4                             1,769.5            3,177.S
IV. Ponds and Wells
Ponds - Preparatory Works                                                          0.6                                40.6               41.2
- Construction & Supervision of Construction                                57.0                               513.0              570.0
- Maintenance                                                               12.3                               110.0              122.3
Wells - Preparatory Works                                                          3.6                                 54.2              57.8
- Construotion & Supervision of Construction                              484.4                              2,136.6            2,621.0
Subtotal                                                                     557.9                             2,854.4            3,412.3
V. Mopti Abattair - Wide DrvinR Facilities
Investment Coots - Site Preparation                                               0.1                                  1.0                1.1
- Civil Works                                                   24.2                                130.0             154.2
- Utilities                                                      7.5                                 37.6              45.1
- Eq,ipscnt                                                      9.1                                 34.7              43.8
Engineering Services                                           09                                 25.8               26.7
Operating Costs  - Salaries and Wages                                                -               52.3               3.7              56.0
- Utilities                                                      0.2                8.3               0.2                8.7
- Maintenance of Buildings &
Construction                                                   -               23.0                 -               23.0
- Vehicles                                                       0.1               10.7               0.4               11.2
Others                                                         0.1               14.2                -                14.3
Subtotal                                                                      42.2              108.5            233.4              384.1
VS. Livestock Morktcs
Investeont Costs - Construction and Supervision
of Construction                                             31.3                  -             157.0              180.3
Operating Costs  - Salaries and Wages                                                -               49.8                 -               49.8
- Maintenance                                                       -              22.5                                 22.5
- Others                                                            -              11.8                 _               11.8
Subtotal                                                                      31.3               84.1             157.0             272.4
VII. Mopti Trial Station_
Ivestment Costs - Buildings and Constructions                                     33.3                                188.3             221.6
- Vehicles and Equip-ent                                        14.2                                 42.7               56.9
- Livestock                                                                                           7.8                7.8
Operating Costs  - Salaries and Wages                                              8.4                                337 9              346.3
- Maintenance                                                      -                5.7              31.9               37.6
- Vehicles                                                          -              53.5             160.7              214.2
- Livestock                                                         -                 -              17.9               17.9
- Others                                                         5.o               10.2             86.0               101.2
Subtotal                                                                      60.9               69.4             873.2           1,003.5
VIII. Tr.i_ iu                                                                             2.9                 -               53.8              56.7
TOTAL COSTS BEFORE CONTIBGENCIES                            139.6              2,420.6              262.0           9,360.7           12,182.9
Contingeacies
Physical Contingencies                                                           115.3                   -            490.1              605.4
Price Contingencies                                          45.2                901.7               90.2          3.471.6            4.508.7
Subtotal                                                 45.2              1,017.0               90.2           3,961.7            5,114.1
GRBAX  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   184.8             3,437.2              352.2        ,4- ,,,              17.297.,D
!      Encludes MF 50 oillios (US$ 100,000) for land d-velopsent financed n-der IDA's drought Relief Progran (Annes 9 Table 1)
January 10, 1975



A40010  1I
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Annual Disbur.ment of IDA Credit
(US$' 000)
PY I          PY 2           PY 3         PY 4         PY 5             Total
I.  ODEM Hoadqsartern
I-nvsttent - 3oilding and Constroction                   476.2            -                                                       476.2
- Vehicles and Eqoiprent                       93.8          20.0            -            -                           113.8
Operating Coats - Salaries and Wages                     206.0          216.0          216.0       216.0         137.6            991.6
- Cacsoltants Servic-a                   26.7          39.9            26.7         26.7          -              120.0
-       Maintenance of Buildings           -            19.8           19.8        19.8          19.9             79.3
- and Constroct ion
- Vehicles                               41.8           44.1           44.1        44.1          44.1            218.2
- Credit Triala                           -              6.6            6.7         6.7           6.7             26.7
- Others                                  38.9          21.9           21.9         21.9         20.1            124.7
Subtotal                                  883.4         368.3          335.7        335.2        228.4          2,150.5
II. ODM Service Pastoral
Investment Casts - Boildiaga and Conotruetio-a            89.3          158.4          54.3          -             -              302.0
Vehicles and Equilqent                46.4            1.3           42.9          -            -               90.6
Operating Costs - Salaries and Wages                      65.3           92.3          122.7       128.7         128.8           537.8
- maintenance of 3ouidings                -              3.3            5.1         7.9           7.9             24.2
-   sod Construction
- Vehiclcs                               29.3           30.4           57.9        57.9          57.9            233.4
-  ...cral Adninitrcation                11.6           15.4           17.9        18.0          18.0             80.9
Sobtotal                                  241.9         301.1          300.8       212.5         212.6          1,268.9
III.ODEM Animal Health Services
Icvetmnot Cnsts  - Buildings and Construction             22.5          115.0           -            -             -             137.5
-  Vehicles and Eqoipenots            144.3            3.3            -           -             -              147.6
Operating Cots - Slaries and Wages                        40.0           40.1          61.7         61.7          61.7           265.2
- Mainteno.ce of Buildings               11.3           11.9           16.0        15.9          16.0             71.1
and Contructi.on
- Vehicles                               96.7           97.3           97.4        97.4          97.3           486.1
- Vaccine,rD-rgs, Medictnents
and Miceral Blocko                 156.7          190.5          102.4        83.2          83.2           616.0
- Genrol Administration
Sobtotal                                 477.5          468.1          287.5       268.2         265.2          1,769.5
IV. Founds and Wells
Fonds - Preparatory Works                                 30.4           10.2            -           -             -              40.6
--Coostroction and Sopervisian                     381.2         131.8            -            -             -             513.0
.f Construction
- Mainteance.                                        -             -              -            -          110.0            110.0
Wells - Foeparat-ny 'dsrks                                    54.2            -              -           _             -               54.2
- Co-struction and Supervision                         776.8         698.3          661.5          -            -            2.136.6
of Construction
Subtotal                               1.242.6          840.3          661.5         -           110.0          2,854.4
V. Mopti Abattoir/Hide Driving-Facilities
Inve-stent Cots - Site Preparation                         1.0            -             -                          -               1.0
- Civil Works                          130.0            -              -           -             -             130.0
- Utilitise                             37.6            -              -           -             -              37.6
- Equiprnot                             34.7            -              -           -             -              34.7
- 8ngineering Services                  25.8            -             -            -             -              25.8
Operating Costs - Salary and Wager                         3.7            -             -            -             -               3.7
- Utilities                               0.2            -              -           -             -               0.2
- Haintenance                              -             ..--                                       
- Maitenan                                0.4                                                                     0.4
- Others                                  -            -                                                          -
Subtotal                                 233.4            -              -           -             -              233.4
VI. Livestoock Marhets
Investment Costa - Construetion aod Su-resviaiee         157.0            -             -            -            -              157.0
of Conatruction
Operating Costs - Salaries and Wages                                                   -                                           -
- lsintsnaoce                              --.                                                      
-Others                                                               -                                           -
Subtotal                                 157.0            -              *           -             -              157.0
Investnent Coats - Boildingo and C-nstruction            188.3            -             -            -             -             188.3
- Vehicles and Equip-eouts              30.1           12.6            -           -             -              42.7
- .ivestolck                             4.5            3.3            -           -             -               7.8
Operating Coats - Salaries and Wages                      75.6           75.6          75.7         75.6          35.4           337.9
- Maint-nance                             -              8.0            7.9         8.0           8.0            31.9
- Vehicles                               25.6           3A.8           33.8        33.7          33.8           160.7
- Livestenck                              -              4.0           5.0          5.1           3.8            17.9
- Others                                 16.1           17.1           17.2        17.5          18.1            86.0
Snbtotal                                 340.2          154.4          139.9       139.9          99.1           873.2
V-III. Training
TOTAL C01TS BEFORE CONTINGENCIES                       3.587.5        2.151.4       1.737.9        960.7        923.2          9.360.7
Cntingencie    hyaical                                   308.6          144.8          25.7          -           11.0            490.1
'rice                                    841.7          769.8          546.4       440.5         573.2          3,471.6
subtDtal                               1150.3           914.6          872.5       440.5         584.2         3.961.7
TOTAL TA, CP0DIT                       4.737.8        3,066.8        2.610.0     1.401.2       1,507.4         13.322.4
January 10, 1975



ANNEX 19
MAI4I
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Disbdrsement of IDA-Credit
(USs 000)
Project Year      Quarter          Cumulative Disbursement at
End of Quarter
I              1                         300
2                     -2,000
3                       3,200
5-,700
,,         l~~ 5,700
2                       6,500
3                       7,200
h                       7,8300
3              1                       8,500
2                       9,200
3                   -  9),300
U                ~~~~~0, 4OO
1                      10,300
2                      11,200
3                      11,500
11,800
5              1                      12,200
2                      12,600
3                      13,000
1b                     13,300
January 10, 1975



MALI
ODEM C0.h Flov
(ML '000)
_            _                           _           _    _  __----- -   -_-- ---    -- ----- ------ ------ ----- ------ ---   - -   ---- -----  ------ -----  V---. t     Y - r  ----- -    ---- ------ ----- ---  -- ----------- ------ --    --- ----- ------ ----  - -----
Co8hn flof                                  1         2          3          4          5            6          7          8           9          10        11          12         13         14          15         16          17         18          19         20
Co4-t ft-O  G-ov-r,oet-y               2,312,010 1,379,700  1,174,500    630,540   67a.330                           -          -                -          -                -               -           -                -
GovenuOoft Contribution to:
- Project Co-t Net of
Co,,tfn6o,.or0. 1!               380,00.0  243,000    232,000    156,0w0   165,000       427,395    427,395    427,395    427,395    517,895    457,395    457,395    457,395    457,395    517,895    4$7,395    457.395    457,395   457,395           517,895
p-hysikal c00tig-f- i'/            20,652    15,879     14,794      -            560         -          -          -           -                    -           -          -                                 -           -           - _  _
- Orira 100t178,ci   1!             98.377    89.983      98.936     51.489     66.995         -          -                     -           _                    _                      _                      _          _            _         _
S.btot.1               2,811,039 1,721,562  1,520,250    838.029    910,615      427,395    427,395    427,395    427,395    517,895    457,395    457,395    457,395    457,395    517,695    457,395    457,395    457,395    457,395    517,895
R-ce9ptt  fr- b.rdnu  for V1ci...,
t. .. 2/                    -         -        16,430      20,950     5,460       254        25,460      5,460      25,460     23,460     25,460      25,460 25,460 25,440              25,460 25,460          25,460     25,460      25,460     25,460
C..h 7 -o   fro= Mopti Ab.ttjo.r            -       17,604     19,800     21,996     24,192       26,511     28,594     28,584    25,584       28,534     28,584     35,208      35.208     35.208     35,208      35,208     46,944      46,944     46,944      46,944
4,
Cooh TIoo-, fIro= Lis-to-k MatketU     _            18.825    22,575    22 5T5    22.575         22.575      22.378     28.250     28.250      28.250     28.230     28.250      35.750     35.750     35.750      35.750     35.750      35 750     35750        5750
T2t.1 C4.h Iflor         2,811,039 1,764,991  1,579,035    903,350   9B3.112       501,,18    504,014    509,69    509,68  -  600.168    539,669    546,313    553,813    553,13    614513    553,913    565,449    565,849    565,549    626,049
Cesh lotfIon,
project C08t N.t of PrOc.
Contltg.oenl. 5/               2,108,856 1,264,060  1,078,56.5     82,295    580,155     507,640    508,875    010,175      1,1 -75    570,675    510,175    514,325    515,925    515,925    576,425    515,925    521,515    521,515    521,515    582,015
- frcn 1ontlngc..                 471884  449 914   494,695    257.445    334.977             -          -          -           -          -                                 -          -                      -
To0al C0.h Ontflo-       2,580,740 1,7'S.974  1,573,246    839,740    915,132      57,6M      506,875    510,175    610,175   170,675    510,175   534,325    515,953    515,92$    76,425    515,925    521,515    521,515    521,515    582,015
Annt. C..h Sor9lo, (0.fielt)      7D;29      31,017       5,789     a,oto6    67,9m        (S.652      (4,861)/    .(41        (4S6     29,514      29,514      31,966    57,88       37,888     37,888     37,088      44,034     44,034      44,034     44,034
1/ Ann0 21.
3/ A.n  5, tabl.  2:
A.4nn 7, t0l. 3.
4/ An.  8, t0bl. 3.
51 Ann 16 nd 3 to 11. For Moptl Tri.1 Stjtio, .Ot op.r-ti0  0..t, 0t,y.
6' A00a 16.
J7n06ry 19, 1975



LIVE5TOCK PROJriCT
GoeestCah Plug
(5fF 0I0)
Ceehleflue                              1          2         3          4          5          6         7          a          9         10         11        12         13         14          i5        16         17         IS         19         20
IDA Credit
- F oject Coat net of
Cottingeoaee 1/       I/      1.614.375  968.130   782,055   432,315    415,440                    -
- Physital Cootiog.e&ei-         136,870    65,160     11,565      -        4 950         _         _
- price Cootiseoie  1/           37 _87653 46,410   380.880    198.22s   257,940
ToSOl IDA Credit                2,132,010 1,379,700  1,174,500    630.540   678,30        -          -          -         -          -                     -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -
Reveu-e Cro. Tlati-on     2/
of Project Op.rtloeed           302,441   180,011    150,046    63,651    70,415      64,610    64,771      64,889   64,089      75,433    69,363      69,793     69,984    69,914     76,034     69,984     70,356     70,356     70.356     76,406
of PoJect Ontt 3/               _,        8018 l0    81468    94 436   127.779  166277    261.455   307. 333 305809    3053519    300.088 383    69e 7            694                    763 -     9293 15             2878711    285J626   283 403
lotsRl Revee  frue Taatieo        322.441   268,391    236,514    158,087    198,192   250,887    326,228    372,225    415,697    484,560   400,242    075,112    370,072    365,292    369,789    361,906    368,275    355,167    355,982    359,009
Total Cobb lWISo,               2,454,451 1,648,091 1,4100014    780,627   8t6,522     250,887    326,226    372,225   405,697    434,560    401,242    375,112    370,072    365,292    369,789    361,906   360,275    358,167    355,982    359,809
Cash Oitflo,
Gr-nt to ODEN                       2,132,010 1,379,700  1,174,500    630,500   616,330                  -          -                                          -          -                    -          -          -          -          -          -
Gover-,ent Conttbhortlo to
P- oject Coat eeC of
Contingeeteei 41      ,         380,000   243,000    232,000    156,000    165,01Q   427,395    427,395    427,395    427,395    517,895    457,395    457,395    457,395    457,395    517,895    457,395    457,395    457,395    457,395    517,895
- Phystiel Cootiogeo.ier           20,652   150879    14,794                   560        -          -         -          -          -                     -          -                                                     -          - _
- Prnie Cootiogrania.  _/         98.377   89.903    98.936    51.489    66.9i5                   -     -       .     -                                     _ -  -    .          -         -                           -          -            -
S.btotal     2,631,039 1,728,562  1,520,230    838,029   91o,e85     427,395    427,395    427,395   427,395    517,895    457,395    457,395    457,395    457,395    517,895    457,395    457,395    457,395    457,395    517,895
Debt Setvice
Pc-looiptl                           -              -         -               -                                                                9-- 3,931  59,951    39,951    28,930     58,950     59,951     59,9351    58.953     39,950    59,950
Srlinp Chlrge                      15;990   26.338    9A          39.876    I4.960     944 963               44..63    44.963    44.963    44.963    44.503  40564    43.614    43.164    42.715    42.265    41 816    41 366    40 916    400 872
Tot* lebt Sev44e                15,990    26,338    35,146     39,876     44,963     44,963     44,963     44,963    44,963     44,963    104,464    104,015    103,565    103,115    102,666    102,216    101,797    101,137    100,867    100,823
PetaL Cleh otelo             2,647,029 1,754.990  1,35,8976   877,5h7    945  a8    47W,3i8   472,358    472,350   472,328    542,858  5_3879    561,410    560,960    560,510   620,581    539,80l   559,192    558,712    558,262    618,718
Annoal Surplo. (Defteit)         (192,578) (106,809)  (145,362)  (89,278)   (ft629 $   (221,471)  (146,132)  (100,133)   (66,661)  (120,298)  (160,617)  (186,298)  (190,888)  (195,218)  (250,772)  (197,705)  (198,917)  (200,545)  (202,280)  (258,909)
Adju-ted Annual S.tplO* (Defiect
(Deficit) 71                  (132,578) ( 46,809)  ( 8l,362)   (29,278)    9 9,326   (161,471)  ( 86,132)  ( 40.13)   ( 6.661)   (68,298)  (100,617)  (126,298)  (130,000)  (135,218)  (190,772)  (137.705)  (138,917)  (140,545)  (142,200)  (198,909)
1/ An-ex 18: disrepaneles d.e to ro.-dieg.
2/ Ann  3 thtougb 11.
/ Cattle tRe: MP 400 Per head of c ttle  d 1I9 70 Per head of sheep ed goat. on 00 perect
of leoremootal prod-etion; fEport ta  9F 6,000 per bead of eattl  on 60 psreeet
of i-erensental production of bulls, sale. 2-3 td 4-5 years and  tecrs over 5 year.
4/ Am"ex 3 throtgh 11. Figure io.olode physinal              - ntenee oweajinternee. of peed. and
selh for FYO Dtd thereafter.
5i Annex 6, table I ad 2; Anne 7, teble 2: Dd Ae-  8, tabhi 2.
6/ Ann-e 17.
7/ Anual Serples (Deficit) le..  l9 60 eilOos, the e tiatd  Goowt 0 l
noetribution to nests of misting livestook aervin. and fecilitiee taSen k oar by ODDIM
Jaoory 19, 1975



ANNEX 22
Page 1
MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Poject L-ife
1.         The economic rate of return has been calculated for a project
life of 20 years.
Costs
2.         Additional costs have been calculated including both investmenit and
operating costs, but excluding price contingencies, taxes, and duties. The
current foreign exchange rate of MF 450 = US$ 1.00 has been used. Additional cost
adjustments have been made to specific categories:
(a)   For ODEM Headquarters, it is estimated that 10% of staff time would
be needed for the preparation of a second phase project.  Therefore,
20% of headlquarters and all consultant costs related to project
preparation have been excluded from project costs.
(b)   For ODEM's Animal Health Services, the value of assets taken over
from the Regional Aniual Health Service (MF 140 million) has been
added to PY 1 costs.
(c)   For the Mopti Trial Station, costs have been excluded since it.s
activities would benefit a future pmject, and possibly developnents
outside the 5th Region.
(d)   For training, 50%  of costs are excluded to allow for its bene-it
to future projects.
(e)   For additional herdsmen (one for 50 cattle) MF 25,000 per year are
assumed.
(f)   For cattle trans&ort MF 7,000 per head for all additional expo :t cattle
(MF 2,000 from producer to Mopti - Sevare market and MF 5,000 irDm
Mopti-Sevare market to border), and MB 2,000 per head for all inarement:ed
domestically consumed cattle (from producer to Mopti-Sevare ma:kat) are.
assumed.



ANNEX 22
Page Z
Prices
3.        All prices are based on early 1974 market conditions.  The economic
price of export beef, equal to the estimated border value, has been calculated
at MF 340 per kg of carcass. Domestically consumed cattle are priced at
MF 200 per kg of carcass, while feeder steers for fattening in Mali's higher
rainfall areas are priced at MF 250/kg. The price of mutton and goat meat has
been estimated at MF 250 per kg of carcass and milk at NF 20 per liter.
Benefits
4.        Benefits have been calculated on the incremental cattle, sheep and
goat production, including milk.
5.        The salvage value for buildings and constructions of ODEM's
Headquarters, Animal Health Service and Pastoral Service has been estimated
at 25% of construction costs, ,nd has been added to benefits in PY 20.
Watering facilities are assumed to have no salvage value.
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6,        The project's economic rate of return is 51%.  The effect on the
rate of return of increasing and reducing project costs and benefits is:
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Costs plus 25%                                             40
Costs plus 50%                                             32
Costs plus 67%                                             27
Benefits minus 25%                                         37
Benefits minus 50%                                         22
Benefits minus 67%                                         10
Costs plus 25% and benefits minus 25%                      28
Costs plus 50% and benefits minus 50%                      10



L,VE70CK PROJEGT
_GONOM1C RATE OF RErTU2N
(ISF'000)
_                            ------------- _--------_-__   __    - _- _------  ----------       ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1         2           3          4           5            6           7           8         9            10          11          12          13          14          15         16           17         18          19         20
00ST8
Tov.at-oet Coat.                       229,761      9,199                                            -                                                                                                                                8 0277
Oper.-tin    Coat.                     127,112   141,305    135,905    135,905        91,760       68,270      60 670      68,270     68,270      68,270      68,270      6B,270      68,270      68,270      60,270      68,270
Iavato-It Coat.                           62,367    69,158      45.163                                -           -           -           --
Opa.-tiS coats                           44,716    59,126      87,017      90,977      90,977       90,977      90,977      90,977      90.977     90.977      90,977      90,977      90,977      90,977      90,977      99,977      90,977      90,977      00977      90,977
009001 Soalth Servioca
AM-vH.ltOao   oS--..                     70.0        900-                                 -             -          -          ---.89                                                                                                                    9      1784        5,9
Opo-ating Costa                         165,538   183G180    168,391    163,699       157,894      157;894    157,894    157,894    157.894    157,894    107,894    157;896    157,804    1D7894    137,894    157,894    137,894    157,894    157.994    157,894
Po.d
Ioveat,oaot CoSta                       202,129    69,808                                       -                                                                                54;718
?Saiat-tao   Coats                                    -     -                          54,718         -                                            54,719                                                       4,1 
Walla
0000at,tOot Coat.  438.571   374.883    356,042  -  -  -  -   -                       -           -                      -           -                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27000   2700
.vctoto Coat.                          438,571   374,683    356,442           -          -            -70                                                      27,090      27.900     27,000       27,000      27,000      27,090     27,000       27,000
AbAtt.i lt                                                                                                                                                                                               
Io_t ..a t Coata                       128,000       -                        -          -                                                                                               458 -    1845        1848        1,5          3662-7                  366        2,7
op-ttlo   Coata                           1,948     9,261      10,388       11,575     12,679       13,609      14,718      14,718      14,718     14,718      14,718      18.458      18,438      18,438      18,458      18,438      03,676      23,676      23,676     23,676
Cattla Ma rkata
OoetotCsa74,220                                      -            -           -                                                                                                                                           1134  -47 -37                       1154 1-4
peating Coats                          -72          8;254       0,785        9,785     98785         8,785       8,785      9,938       9,938       9,938       9,938       9,938      11,347     11,347      11,347      11.347      11,347       11,347      1,347      10,347
Tr,.8000  Coata                             5,163     8,644       5,983        2,214      2,214         -           -           -           -
Clttlo T-p-tt Coats                          -      150,994    114,425        96,075    155,118      185,406    261,481    285,572    343,656    303,528    247,607    206,662    198,889    191,661    190,780    189,374    187,690    185,846    183,876    181,837
3erdamon                                      _        3.616     2_8047       69.767    102,707      1SO730 O    131,226    165.151    158.585       151.764     146,885_143,426    140.395         137,712     134.904      1.24,         91       126.650     123,174    120,178
TOTA0   TESTS             1,698,752 1,136,308    960,546       578,997    676,852       655,691    753,351    792,520    844,038    878,807    763,289    722,625    713,230    703,319    754,348    695,344    695,958    691,161    686,214    735,897
BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                                        0032400318(0315003160031600304003020(721 A
I-ore'tc.l ftod..ti.o fEoo Cattlo            -    1,292,000  1,058,000       988,000  1,725,000   2,175,000  3,023,000   3,499,000  4,326,000  4,055,000  3,627,000  3,,305,00  3,254,080  3,168,000  3.133,000  3.136,000  3,116,000  3,094.000  3,072,000  7,291,00
onoauntal ProGaction fro=   eP               -       63,000    130,000       196,000    267,000      337,000    411,000    488,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527,000    527.000  2,027,000
81aage V.lI.  of Bildid . ad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             157.595
Coo, ttttiu _on-                                                       ___   __                           _           _        -
TOTAL BRENRFIT                   1,355,000  1,188,000   1,184,000  1,992,000   2,512,000  3,434,000  3,987,000  4,853,000  4,582,000  4,154,000  3,832,000  3,781,000  3,695,000  3,682,000  3,663,000  3,643,000  3,621,000  3,599,000  9.475,595
Econo- il Rata of Retoto,
1/ 0.0000, ino,rdteol  -rd  1o..
t-na.-  1. 8975



MALI
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK SERVICE
I .
Op6ration de D6veloppement~ de'Elevage           '-                 _______
de la R6gion de Mopti (ODEM)
PLANNING- MANAGEIMENT UNIT                                             IELD OPERATIONS                                                   MOPTI TRIAL STATION
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OFFICER                                                       |EERi   FFICER IN CHARG
LIVESTOCK ECONOMIST               LIVESTOCK MARKETING AND PR QES5UAQ                              ANIMAL HEALTH                         PASTURE AGRONOMIST
RANGE IVIANAGLERINt OJFFICER   I -.ANMA. EAT__SUPOT__rr
WATER DFVELOPMENT7OFFICER                   14EAD OF OPERATIONS                                    HEAD OF OPERATIONS                    &   P     STAFF
5 MA tKETSj1   A8ATTOIR                                2 VE7ERINARY OFFICERS
& SUPPORT STAFF                                        & SUPPORT STAFF
PASTORAL SERVICE
HEAD OF OPERATIONS
4 EXTENSION OFFICERS
& SUPPORT STAFF
June 26, 1974
World Bank-9135(R)






MALI                      s                                                                                                          N I P3.                                                                                                                                       MAY I1j14
LIVESTOCK PROJECT (5th REGION)   /j,                                                                                                                           eo 
Location  of  Project Activities                                                                                                                                    -- -- - --1-6
/                                                               .~~~T300QQ72r:~~~~~~~.  o3r.q
,v Project Headquarters (S.vm,6)' 
Veterinary posts                                            .~                                                                                                                                 '             DO
V . V ontion yards                                                  /                      n    Lnd-  4N
Pastoral posts                                                   /y                                                                                                       \o       oadu                                      6th       R  e gi on
Ij   Cattle markets                                                           J7400  
I -   Abattoir                                                       'M      MAn 
- -  - -- - -  --  ME~    A       Up to loponds                      n'
ll) Mopt, trial station                                          4a00_,~~                                                                  ~                        0~                   po5pns                 ~         C O       R M
* E.iating ponds financed by PED                                                 5'                                                                    f(oDeeheo                                                                                                                           Sc.helo-
7Areas tar pond development                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4o, rKretz  .Krao  .  -    Shra
Ko,arou                                                                        Sa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  horio
NAreas for well deMOePMent and Intensivn                                                                                                                                                    000                                                           O
extensien activitieS                               4th  Region                                                                                                             .         -0'
Roads                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Boni0~n ~~0?'  ~                                                       "
-I        Rcs and lakes/                                                                   NCR5                   ,N.-                                                                                                                                                                                      .,l.-
Towns                                                                 7og-tN 
O     on0T Sahiel                                                                   11      el                                                na ~         {a)pns 
-  - -  Regional bounarie                                                                                   Qooib,/t
-    International boundaries                                    N~NN ~ioR                  ~    ~     ~                                                       -                                          ~~-                     -~-
LAND CATEGORIES'.                                                                                                                                                                                             po6         el                    ~..-Stl
True bcurgcu (Eosch-la stagni,,a/                                       3- we n    '/  d'psaa    upoI                                                                                                                                                                                Sdn
-  Vossla c,,spidata)                            -  Zrr                coS     / n.. .                                    /OT                                                                        '-                                                                                Sudoma
Ni GER            Other inundated grasslnds and                       /      N        Py~rfPk~~j
DELTA              cu tivation                                        I Up to 9 'ponds t-                       Oeku                        4 
coundoled land Intersipersedl with                                                         I e-
IB ndill gli         plateaur and outliers                                                        ja e~N7y5Eako                                                                                  Cr           '                                                                                                  C
Gandarnio                 forabd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro
Sand ploins and consolidated dInes, recsIl1 yaddon-                                                                                                                                                                     .. 
-14-graslnd and wooded grassland                                                                                      2                                                                                                                                                                                               14 _
I  Jnd:tferestiated plains, mastip bushlanad           5                   OT         ~         ~         i"     ' 
and wooded grassland on h.a.,er, soils           s          N/E        N         3000   :f          o" c1 
7n50-----           Zone boundaries Indicating meat annoul rainfall                         ~                                                                                                                                           Sudcm-______________________
I~~~~~~~~~'  3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Saeelian                                                                      I                                  o
Cattle migration routes:                                                                          '-. N -'J1O                                                                   ~      1s~                    h 
50,000  Head of cattle                                                                                                                                                                                   ".                                                                                      --AGRI
Major colt e mouemCels at the onset of the dry seasoni                                                                                                                             - '
-  ~~~~~~~'""'I  ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ARACITANdIA 
0   20       40       h         e        0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wibst
-13'                             2  KILOMETERS                do           alOo13- - '                                                                                                                                                                                               NarGaR
~~~~~~~~~~0  ,                                                                                                                         11,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'qV  Ni-' I,-,j~i~h  O~'2PR OCA
0.   n*                                                                                                                                                                        ,..u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dl.2  1C  5AH0-



