a&, .oli
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name               YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF-LABOR LIL
Region                     Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                     Other social services (100%)
Theme                      Social nsk reduction (P); Social risk coping (P)
Project                    P069374
Borrower(s)                GOVERNMENT OF SERBIA
Implementing Agency(ies)   MINISTRY OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT
Address Nemanjina St. 22-26 Belgrade, 11 000
Contact Person Nebojsa Rajkovic
Tel +38111 3616602     Fax +38111 3617498       Email
nebojsa.rajkovic@uzzpro.sr.gov.yu
Labor Market Bureau
Address. Kralja Milutina 8, Belgrade 11000
Contact Person Svetozar Krstic
Tel +38111 3244612     Fax. +38111 3245236      Email.
Environment Category       C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared          Aug 14, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date        October 4, 2002
Bank Approval Date        January 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Build capacity in the public sector to promote more cost effective labor
redeployment programs and pilot innovative services for the unemployed.
2. Objectives
Pilot and test new approaches and cost-effective labor redeployment programs
and innovative services for the unemployed.



2
PID
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The objective of the proposed Labor Learming and Innovation Loan (LIL) for Serbia will be to pilot and
test new approaches and cost-effective labor redeployment programs and innovative services for the
unemployed The purpose is to build capacity in the public sector that balances social mitigation with
fiscal sustainability and facilitating re-entry to the labor market; and support efforts to monitor and
evaluate the employment and other social impacts of different pilot interventions. This will be assisted
with the approval of a new Labor Law in 2001 which will remove structural impediments to the
contaimment of costs in the enterpnse sector, remove key bottlenecks to the reduction of overstaffing in
enterprises and budgetary institutions, and provide an impetus to growth in employment. Legislative
reform will also bnng the Employment Law into line with requirements of a market economy, and will
harmonize appropnate employment protection with EU and ILO regulations.
The Government of Serbia is increasingly concerned about issues of mass unemployment (predominantly
long term unemployment), large informal labor markets and low efficiency of employment services. This
is reflected in concem about the performance of the current labor market system The labor market in
Serbla is stagnant, with very limited labor andjob flows. Unlike most transition economies, the majority
of unemployed are persons without previous labor market experience (mainly youth), rather than workers
who lost their job. This indicates of a rigid labor market, with barriers to entry. Hiring is limited, as
attested by the low share of workers with short length of service in total (formal sector) employment. As
a consequence, escaping unemployment and finding a new (formal sector) job proves to be an extremely
difficult task. The poor availability of job opportunities leads to the so called "discouraged worker"
effect whereby workers withdraw from the labor force as they cease to believe that they can find a job.
As a result, the employment-to-population ratio, which is a better charactenstic of the labor market slack
than the unemployment rate, is low in Serbia (some 50 percent), pointing to underutilization of labor
resources Although the informal sector labor market mitigates the unemployment and poverty problem,
in the interest of long term economic development it is important that unemployment is absorbed by the
growing formal sector, rather than by the informal sector. Serbia is most likely to witness a rapid and
substantial increase in unemployment in the wake of accelerated privatization and enterpnse
restructunng. The restructunng will give rise to large inflows into unemployment, while due to the
underdeveloped new private sector, outflows from unemployment will be, in the short- to medium-term,
limited.
Currently, owing to budget constraints and high spending on unemployment benefits and related cash
payments (pensions and health insurance), expenditures on active labor market programs (ALMPs) are
very limited in Serbia. The programs are broadly targeted, and not necessanly at disadvantaged groups
(e.g., groups running a high nsk of long-term unemployment). In addition, the programs are likely to
carry a heavy deadweight loss, and thus their net impact and cost-effectiveness appears to be low. Job
search assistance, which based on international experience is one of the most cost-effective active labor
market interventions, is underdeveloped in Serbia
There are three types of ALMP currently being implemented in Serbia: i) employment/self-employment
subsidy; ii) apprenticeships (training) for school leavers; iii) training for the unemployed. The programs
have a limited effect and do not seem cost-effective The current budget of the LMB divides only 8
percent for active measures, compared to 82 percent for passive measures.
All programs are admunistered and financed by the Labor Market Bureau (LMB) and its local branches.
The LMB has currently around 1600 employees but one counselor on average works with more than
2000 unemployed individuals which is one of the heaviest work load of a public employment service
(PES) in the region. The Bureau has no possibilities to hire new staff. This is the main reason why new
approaches in provision of cost effective ALMP are needed.



3
PID
Regarding labor redeployment programs, currently most redundant workers (90-95 percent) in enterprises
undergoing privatization and restructunng opt for a generous lump sum monetary compensation
amounting to 10 average wages in the economy of the Republic or YUD 6,000 for each year of
employment, since alternatives for participation in active labor programs are limited. Moreover, an
expenence from Romania, Russia and other countries indicates that severance as seed capital failed to
result in an appreciable level of development activity (new businesses were not created) The LIL would
encourage dismissed workers towards programs which are likely to be more effective for their age and
skill profile.
So all the activities that the Labor LIL project would support are predominantly new programs for the
country, which are being tested in 34 pilot areas (municipalities), evaluated and then expected to be
implemented more broadly
Accordingly, the Labor LIL will support new policies and institutional arrangements for labor
redeployment programs (LRP), by building capacity to implement a LRP targeted at workers displaced
by privatization, and will enhance ALMPs through piloting and evaluating new and more cost-effective
interventions, including job/social counseling, job search/job club programs, enhanced labor exchange,
and placement services, in order to improve both their impact and cost-effectiveness. Program evaluation
anticipated in the project will play a critical role in informing the allocation of resources to, and
expansion of, programs with the largest impact The project will improve operational efficiency and the
provision of improved information systems within Labor Market Bureau.
4. Description
First component "Design, monitonng, and evaluation of a Labor Redeployment Program" alms to
support new policies and institutional arrangements for labor redeployment programs by building
capacity to implement a LRP targeted at workers displaced by privatization. In particular, the component
aims to assess and test different administrative structures for the LRP, and take into account the pace of
restructuring which will require approaches based on learming-by-doing Operating guidelines for a LRD
will be prepared, and cadres of LRP specialists trained. The component could also involve the design of a
facility, which large enterprises can draw on to support enterprise-level Social Plans dunng pnvatization.
It is anticipated that enterprise-level Social Plans will be developed and tested in several pilot enterprises.
The primary objective of Component 2 "Piloting and evaluating reforms in Public Employment
Services" will be to support improvements in public employment services, through piloting and
evaluating new and more cost-effective interventions, including job/social counseling, job search/job
clubs, enhanced labor exchange, and placement services. The component will also assist in the design of
ALMPs that can be used to screen unemployment benefit recipients, and increase system confidence in
the employment status of claimants. The component aims to support 7-8 programs linked to job search
assistance and/or job placement services in 3 or 4 pilot municipal areas These pilot schemes will need
to take account of workers socioeconomic profiles (including age, education, gender, work history, skill
level) and local labor market needs.
The objective of Component 3 "Labor market information and evaluation social impact of restructunng
and effects of ALMPs" is to provide the Government of Serbia with an information base and guidelines
for improving ALMPs, a framework for reforming labor relations, the development of institutional
capacity to collect and analyze labor market data, and to help agencies responsible for labor market
policy make informed decisions.



4
PID
Surveys conducted of the unemployed persons who participate in ALMPs will assist in determining job
placement and retention rates and the gross impact of different labor market interventions. The survey
will use a targeted sample drawn from unemployment register records at the disposal of the LMA
Survey results wil] enable determination of unit costs per placement of different programs, and assess the
relative effectiveness of local LMBs, and eventually inform and guide resource allocation across
programs and localities.
The pilot areas will be chosen in regions with high unemployment rates and mass redundancies resulting
from enterpnse restructuring, privatization or closure. The introduction of new employment services and
associated participatory techniques in a selected range of municipal employment bureaus is expected to
lead to approaches and lessons that can be applied across the country. The LIL will, therefore, aim to
support new activities and ALMPs outlined in the proposed Law on Employment
Implementation arrangements. The estimated period of implementation of the project is 3 years. The
key institutional counterpart for the LIL will be the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MOLE). The
Labor Market Bureau (LMB) will be a key operational partner in the LIL The program will be
implemented with the support of a US$ 3.5 million World Bank Loan and a DFID grant of US$ 2.0
million (co-financing). DFID is also providing resources ($ 80,000) to support preparatory work that will
contribute to the design and implementation of the program.
1. Design, monitoring, and evaluation of a Labor Redeployment Program
2. Piloting and evaluating reforms in Public Employment Services
3. Labor market information and evaluation: social impact of restructuring and effects of ALMPs
4 Project Management
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER (0.6)
IDA (3.5)
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (DFID) (2)
Total Project Cost 6 1
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : Social impacts are expected to be positive as a result of the adoption of improved
employment services which would help redundant workers andjob seekers to cope with their new status
and to reintegrate into the labor market by providing placement services and assisting workers to
undertake self-employment, and reduce the short-term negative impact of labor restructuring on affected
workers and communities



5
PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Arvo Kuddo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone
Fax:
12. For information on other project related documents contact.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone. (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web. http.// www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



