ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Freoll' rovorty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/14/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF                 Project ID: P069374
Project: Employment Promotion Project            Task Team Leader: Arvo Kuddo
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 28, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m).
Bank Approval. March 6, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m): 2.75
Managing Unit ECSHD                               Sector: Other social services (100%)
Lending lnstrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme. Social risk reduction (P); Social risk copilg
Status: Lending                                  (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of labor programs by piloting and testing new approaches
and innovative labor redeployment programs and employment services for the unemployed
l.A.3. Project Description:
Component I involves the "Design of a Labor Redeployment Programn"This component aimsto
support new policies and institutional arrangements for a labor redeployment program (LRP) by building
capacity to implement redeployment measures targeting redundant workers in enterprises undergoing
deep restructuring or privatization. Componenit 1 involves the design, testing, and implementation of a
Labor Redeployment Program that will support workers affected by enterprise restructurinig and
privatization, is consistent with intemational best practices, and is feasible for replication under the
conditions existing in Serbia. In particular, the component aims to assess and test different administrative
structures for the LRP, taking into account the pace of restructuring which will require approaches based
on learning-by-doing. Operating guidelines for a LRP will be prepared, and cadres of LRP specialists
trained The component could also involve the design of a facility, which large enterprises or local level
partnerships can draw on to assist in preparing enterprise-level Social Plans during privatization. It is
anticipated that enterprise-level Social Plans will be developed and tested in several pilot areas.
The primary objective of Component 2 "Piloting reforms in Public Employment Services"will be to
support improvements in public employment services, through the design, piloting and evaluating of new
and more cost-effective interventionis. The component will also assist in the design of ALMPs that can be
used to screen unemployment benefit recipients, and increase system confidence in the employment
status of claimants. These pilot schemes will need to take account of workers socioeconomic profiles
(including age, education, gender, work history, skill level) and local labor market needs. The
Component comprises 5 tasks. The objective of thmproved Employment Servicess to provide



2
ISDS
enhanced public employment services to workers, who have been displaced by the privatization of SOEs
and enterprise restructuring programs, and other job seekers, to assist them in rapidly reentering the labor
market. It includes the following activities: job search skill training programs; job clubs; special
employment programs for vulnerable groups (youth, disabled, and minorities); vacancy and job fairs; and
employer contact services. The objective of thimproved Small Business Assistance Servicess to
encourage the unemployed to enter self-employment and assist individuals to start successful businesses.
It includes the following activities: small business advisory services; business incubator services; and
development of a general framework for local economic potential studies The objective ofhibeal
Economic Development Planning Studiesis to help communities to develop the local economy and
generate new employment by identifying and marketing regional resources and opportunities to potential
investors. The Studieswill be implemented in each of the EPP pilot regions by local contractors. The
Design and Implementation of Virtual Enterprises (a Practice Firimfi)Ts to improve interactive
learning obtain and develop business skills, and introduce the students into the day-to-day business life
and labor market reality.Staff Development and Management Trainingin the Ministry of Labor and
Employment and the Labor Market Bureau aims to enable MOLE and the LMB develop technical and
process management skills to for the effective development of employment policy and labor market
interventions, and ensure effective implementation of EPP.
The objective oComponent 3"Labor market information and evaluation: social impact of
restructuring and effects of ALMPs'?s to improve the effectiveness of labor market policies and
programs by developing an information system on labor market trends and patterns and on the effects of
labor market programs.  This involves building local capacity to generate, analyze and use the
information for policy formulation and program design.
The Component comprises five tasks: (i) Development of the performance information and management
system (PIMS) to monitor labor market trends and programs, and guide program design; (ii) Training on
the principles and methods of the evaluation of active labor market programs (ALMP), (iii) Monitoring
of displaced workers. the use of labor redeployment services and changes in the labor market status; (iv)
Qualitative assessment of ALMP supported by the EPP in four pilot areas; (v) Build a Database on
Displaced Workers.
Surveys will use a targeted sample drawn from unemployment register records at the disposal of the
LMB. Survey results will enable determination of unit costs per placement of different programs, and
assess the relative effectiveness of local LMBs, and eventually inform and guide resource allocation
across programs and localities.
It is anticipated that the analysis of the results of labor market monitoring will be concentrated in 2005 so
as to ensure sufficient accumulated experience with ALMPs and labor redeployment. If the results
confirm that the new employment services were more effective compared to those currently used, it is
expected that the new methiods would be expanded and replicated throughout the country. Therefore, the
introduction of a relevant set of new employment services and associated participatory techniques
through the model offices and model municipalities is expected to result in adoption and replication of
the programs countrywide. The EPP will, therefore, aim to support new activities and ALMPs outlinied in
the new Law on Employmenit.
Component 4 Project ManagemenTlhis component will finance project management activities
including the Project Implementation Unit. The PIJ will be under the overall supervision of the Ministry
of Labor and Employmenit. It will act as a coordination office for the project including all liaison and
reporting with the Bank, administer all procurement issues and financial management responsibilities
The PIU staff will be led by a manager (PIU Director) who would have overall responsibility for the



3
ISDS
project. He/she will be assisted by a financial specialist with responsibility for project finance and
accountinig, and a procurement specialist who would advise and assist with all procurement procedures
and monitor their implementation. The PRU will also have a Component Coordinator for technical work
on the components and a support staff member.
Components:
1. Design of a Labor Redeployment Program
2 Piloting reforms in Public Employment Services
3. Labor market information and evaluation: social Impact of restructuring and effects of ALMPs
4. Project Management
I.A.4. Project Location' (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments. There is no physical construction or civil works associated with the project. Therefore, the
project is rated as environmental category "C".
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes C No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             21 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4 36)                                        21 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    C Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11 03)                                  Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                21? Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         ^1 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7 60)*                  C1? Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejzudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Social Impacts are expected to be positive as a result of the adoption of improved employment services
which would help redundant workers and job seekers to cope with their new status and to reintegrate into
the labor market by providing placement services and assisting workers to undertake self-employment,
and reduce the short-term negative impact of labor restructuring on affected workers and communities.
For Component 1, there is a risk that the Government's Social Program may not have funds for
redundancy payments for enterprises in pilot areas. The project is safeguarding against this risk by



4
ISDS
stipulating that the EPP will support "eligible enterprises", which are defined as those committed to deep
restructuring and approved for support under the Government's Social Program.
Il.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No safeguard policies have been triggered.
The social risks of undertaking the Employment Promotion Project are low. Although the labor market
situation is already tense and more workers are expected to be made redundant, the EPP intends to build
public support for restructuring by signaling to citizens, communities and labor representatives that those
responsible for restructuring are tuned to the needs of affected workers and the unemployed people and
that they are ready and willing to assist those that need and want help. Positive benefits are expected to
accrue to the Bank's and UK DFID's reputation as a result of their involvement in the pilot project The
potential positive social outcomes are high, and far outweigh the very low social risks to the Bank of
undertaking the operation.
I1.D Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
IL.D.3. Describe arrangemenit for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intennediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects whichi require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirenients
Environmental As.sessnmenit/Analysis/Managemlent Plan        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to infoShop
Date of distributing the Exec Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framewvork                          Expected      Actual



5
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framewvork:               Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan.                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-counitry" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Arvo Kuddo
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator Jane E. Holt                                09/20/2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Michal Rutkowski                             09/20/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARcHktis, :k , FEED ACKi'i  SrrE MAP      ;SHOWCASE



