Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3753 YF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Employment Promotion Project) 
 
between 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 19, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3753 YF 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2003, between SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower will make available to the Government of the Republic of 
Serbia, through the Sub-Credit Agreement (as defined hereinafter), the proceeds of the 
Credit, as provided in this Agreement;  
 
(C) 
the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, through its Department of International Development (DFID), has agreed to 
provide a grant in an amount equivalent to $1,750,000 (the DFID Grant) to assist in 
financing of the Project, and, pursuant to a memorandum of understanding (the DFID 
Trust Fund Agreement) between DFID and the Association, signed by DFID on April 29, 
2003 and countersigned by the Association on May 5, 2003, the Association has agreed 
to act as Administrator of the DFID Grant, to the extent and subject to the DFID Grant 
funds being made available to the Association;   
 
(D) 
the Association, acting as the Administrator of the DFID Grant pursuant 
to the DFID Trust Fund Agreement, and the Borrower have entered into an agreement 
(the DFID Grant Agreement) of even date herewith, which sets forth the terms and 
conditions of the DFID Grant; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement,  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty of European Union; 
 
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“LMB” means the Labor Market Bureau, a bureau established under the 
MOLE pursuant to the Law on Employment and Implementation of Employment Rights, 
published on April 18, 1992 in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia  No. 22, as 
amended, and registered with the Commercial Court in Belgrade on June 3, 1992 under 
the number F1.11286/92, or any successor or successors thereto; 
 
(d) 
“MOLE” means the Ministry of Labor and Employment of the Republic 
of Serbia, or any successor or successors thereto; 
 
(e) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual describing the operational rules 
and procedures of Project implementation, satisfactory to the Association, adopted by the 
MOLE on April 11, 2003, as the same may be amended from time to time subject to the 
Association’s approval; 
 
(f) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established under the 
authority of the MOLE pursuant to the MOLE decision No. 420-01-05 dated March 4, 
2003, and referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;  
 
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(h) 
“Sub-credit Agreement” means the agreement on the transfer of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the obligations for the implementation of the Project entered 
between the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Sub-credit Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euro a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing October 
15, 2013, and ending April 15, 2023. Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such 
principal amount. 
 
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia carries out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, in order to ensure the implementation the Project, shall make the 
proceeds of the Credit available to the Republic of Serbia, under a sub-credit 
agreement (Sub-credit Agreement), to be entered between the Borrower and the 
Republic of Serbia, which shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-credit Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Sub-credit 
Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia ensures that:  
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(a) 
the MOLE maintains, during the term of the Project, a project 
implementation unit, under terms of references and with staff and other resources 
required for Project implementation and satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(b) 
the MOLE and LMB implement the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, which shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived without prior approval of the Association; and  
 
(c) 
with respect to Part A.2 of the Project, the MOLE, based on the 
recommendation of a consulting firm to be engaged by the MOLE, shall adopt the 
procedures, terms and conditions which shall be satisfactory to the Association and  shall 
be included in the Operational Manual, for the carrying out of labor redeployment 
services. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia:  
 
(a) 
maintains policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Borrower 
and Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepares, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by September 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this 
Section 3.04, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
reviews with the Association, by December 31, 2004, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this Section 
3.04, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, consultants’ services and labor redeployment services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia maintains 
a
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepares financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources, and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall  ensure that the Republic of Serbia: 
 
(i) 
has the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnishes to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year:   (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so audited; and  (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnishes to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia: 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(i) 
maintains or causes to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retains until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enables the Associ
ation’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensures that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set 
forth in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Republic of Serbia causes financial monitoring reports, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, to be prepared and furnished to the Association 
which: 
 
(i) 
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  10
-
8
-
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar 
quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of 
the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the Republic of Serbia shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Sub-credit Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right 
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the DFID Grant Agreement; 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Sub-credit Agreement has been executed and all conditions 
to the effectiveness of such agreement have been fulfilled. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of paragraph (b) of Section 12.02 of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Sub-credit 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Republic of 
Serbia, and is legally binding upon the parties thereto. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Economic Relations is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of External Economic 
 
Relations 
 
Bulevar Mihajla Pupina 2 
11000 Belgrade 
Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Facsimile: 
 
381 11 3112 979 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
Page  12
-
10
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI)  
 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Belgrade, Serbia and Montenegro, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
/s/ Branko Lukovac 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Credit Allocated  
Expenditures 
 
Category
(Expressed in SDR)
to be Financed
(1) Labor 
redeployment 
360,000 
 
61% 
 
services  
 
 
 
 
(2) 
Training  
430,000 
 
61%        
 
 
(3) Services 
700,000 
 
61%  
 
(4) Goods 
220,000 
 
61% 
 
(5) Incremental 
operating 
140,000 
 
61% 
costs  
 
 
(6) Unallocated 
150,000
TOTAL 2,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)  
the term “labor redeployment services” means reasonable and necessary 
labor redeployment services provided to qualified persons under Part A.2 of the Project, 
to be provided in accordance with Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the term “training” means the fees of educational or other 
institutions and organizations that provide training services, cost of study tours, 
cost of workshops, related travel expenditures, boarding, lodging and per diem 
allowances of the trainees;  
 
(c) 
the term “services” means reasonable and necessary expenditures with 
respect to services required for Project implementation, including for the development of 
staff training manuals and curricula; the development of enterprise social plans and the 
Page  15
-
13
-
design of relevant programs, implementation procedures, operating guidelines and 
manuals; the development of a database on redundant workers; the launching and pilot 
testing of relevant programs; the development of local economic potential studies, 
promotional and information materials; information dissemination; monitoring, 
assessment and evaluation of labor redeployment programs and active labor market 
programs; surveys of program participants; translation; and auditing; and 
 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenditures, as approved by the Association on the basis of budgets 
acceptable to the Association, incurred by the MOLE and LMB with respect to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office space, office supplies, 
utilities, publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs, but excluding salaries of officials and employees of the Borrower, the Republic of 
Serbia and LMB. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
Category (1), unless the requirements set forth in Section 3.03 (c) of this 
Agreement have been fulfilled.  
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first two contracts 
procured under international shopping procedures, and the first two contracts procured 
under national shopping procedures; (b) training and services for individuals costing less 
than $25,000 equivalent each, and firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (c) 
labor redeployment services under Part A.2 of the Project under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) incremental operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of labor programs 
by piloting and testing new approaches and innovative labor redeployment 
programs and employment services for the unemployed in selected areas with a 
view to employment promotion and increased cost effectiveness of such 
programs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Labor Redeployment
1. 
Reintegrating displaced workers and other job seekers into the labor 
market and mitigating the social costs of enterprise restructuring through the 
development and testing of new policies, institutional arrangements and labor 
redeployment programs, including the design and implementation of enterprise 
social plans, through the provision of training, services and goods. 
 
2. 
Provision of assistance to persons displaced as a result of restructuring or 
privatization of enterprises through labor redeployment services, as part of the 
carrying out of enterprise social plans, including job counseling, financial 
counseling, job search referral, and skill and entrepreneurial training. 
 
Part B
:
Pilot Reforms in Public Employment Services
Design, piloting and evaluation of new and cost effective public 
employment services with a view to assisting the unemployed to rapidly re-enter 
the labor market, through the provision of improved employment services, such as 
job search assistance programs and small business advisory services, as well as 
the institutional strengthening of the MOLE and LMB, through the provision of 
training, services and goods. 
 
Part C
:
Labor Market Information and Evaluation
Development of a comprehensive system of labor market information to 
assess and evaluate the effects of labor market programs, through the provision of 
training, services and goods. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
Part D
:
Project Management and Implementation
Assistance to the MOLE, including the PIU, in the management of the 
Project through the provision of services, including the audit of accounts and 
financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, and 
assistance to the MOLE, including the PIU, and LMB in the implementation of 
the Project through the provision of training, services and goods. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $510,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and supply and installation of IT shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  19
-
17
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of  Part B of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in each Parts C.1 and C.2 of Section I of this Schedule, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received and a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction, Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the 
Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality-and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Page  20
-
18
-
Services for auditing services under Part D of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Labor redeployment services under Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, or estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract in cases where the short list is comprised entirely of national consultants, 
may be procured in accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Association and 
based on the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (b) monitoring and evaluation tasks under 
Part A of the Project may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time), as 
shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  21
-
19
-
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, consultants’ services, labor redeployment services and 
incremental operating costs required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
 140,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to 
 70,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account of amounts allocated to the Special Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 180,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall ensure 
that the government of the Republic of Serbia furnishes to the Association, on behalf of 
the Borrower, a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the government of the Republic of Serbia shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the government of the Republic of 
Serbia furnishes to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
 
Page  23
-
21
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the government of the Republic of 
Serbia furnishes to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the government of the Republic of Serbia shall have requested on 
behalf of the Borrower, and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of 
the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall ensure that the government 
of the Republic of Serbia, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnishes to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower or the government of the Republic of 
Serbia on behalf of the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the government of the Republic of Serbia shall have failed to furnish to 
the Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
Page  24
-
22
-
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the said eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
