Page  1
The World Bank 
W
ashington, D.C. 20433 
U.S.A. 
 
O
RSALIA KALANTZOPOULOS 
Country Director and Regional Coordinator for  
S
outheast Europe  
E
urope and Central Asia Region 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
May 19, 2003 
 
H. E. Branko Lukovac 
Minister of External Economic Relations 
Serbia and Montenegro 
Bulevar Mihajla Pupina 2 
11000 Belgrade 
Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Re:  DFID Grant for Co-financing of the Employment Promotion Project 
Grant TF051870 
 
Dear Mr. Minister: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Associa
tion (IDA) to indicate the IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million seven 
hundred fifty thousand United States dollars (US$1,750,000) (the Grant) to Serbia and Montenegro 
(the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the purposes 
and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the 
Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and any 
information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the Recipient 
has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter Agreement, 
confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Following receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
once the Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 3753 YF) of even date herewith 
between Serbia and Montenegro and IDA will have been declared effective. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Country Director and Regional Coordinator 
for Southeast Europe  
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
AGREED: 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
By: /s/ Branko Lukovac 
Title: Minister of External Economic Relations 
Date: May 19, 2003 
Page  3
-
3
-
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to co-finance the Employment Promotion Project (the 
Project) which seeks to improve the efficiency of labor programs by piloting and testing new 
approaches and innovative labor redeployment programs and employment services for the 
unemployed in selected areas with a view to employment promotion and increased cost 
effectiveness of such program, in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement (Credit 
Number 3753 YF) between Serbia and Montenegro and IDA dated May 19, 2003 (the DCA). 
 
1.2 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and IDA may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Labor Redeployment
1. 
Reintegrating displaced workers and other job seekers into the labor market and 
mitigating the social costs of enterprise restructuring through the development and testing of new 
policies, institutional arrangements and labor redeployment programs, including the design and 
implementation of enterprise social plans, through the provision of training, services and goods. 
 
2. 
Provision of assistance to persons displaced as a result of restructuring or privatization of 
enterprises through labor redeployment services, as part of the carrying out of enterprise social 
plans, including job counseling, financial counseling, job search referral, and skill and 
entrepreneurial training. 
 
Part B
:
Pilot Reforms in Public Employment Services
Design, piloting and evaluation of new and cost effective public employment services 
with a view to assisting the unemployed to rapidly re-enter the labor market, through the 
provision of improved employment services, such as job search assistance programs and small 
business advisory services, as well as the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Labor and 
Employment of the Republic of Serbia (MOLE) and the Labor Market Bureau (LMB), through 
the provision of training, services and goods. 
 
Part C
:
Labor Market Information and Evaluation
Development of a comprehensive system of labor market information to assess and 
evaluate the effects of labor market programs, through the provision of training, services and 
goods. 
 
Part D
:
Project Management and Implementation
Assistance to the MOLE, including the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), in the 
management of the Project through the provision of services, including the audit of accounts and 
financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as well as assistance to both 
the MOLE, including the PIU, and LMB (as defined in the DCA) in the implementation of the 
Project through the provision of training, services and goods. 
 
Page  4
-
4
-
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall, and shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia: (a) carries out the 
Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange 
views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the 
Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, 
and shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on 
the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient shall make available to the Republic of Serbia the proceeds of the Grant for 
purposes of carrying out the Activities of the Project in accordance with a subsidiary grant agreement 
(the Subsidiary Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Recipient and the Republic of 
Serbia, satisfactory to IDA. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the labor redeployment services, 
training, services and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall, and shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia, ensure that all imported 
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  
The Recipient shall, and shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia, ensure that any facilities relevant to 
the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and 
that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient, or by 
the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Recipient, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, 
for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Page  5
-
5
-
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in US$)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1)  Labor redeployment  
 
services 
 310,000 
 39% 
 
(2)  Training 
 
(3)  Services 
 
370,000 
 
610,000 
 
39% 
 
39% 
 
(4)  Goods 
 
200,000 
 
39% 
 
(5)  Incremental operating costs 
 
(6)  Unallocated 
 
130,000 
 
130,000
39% 
 
TOTAL 
 
1,750,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term: 
 
(a)  
“labor redeployment services” means reasonable and necessary labor 
redeployment services provided to qualified persons under Part A.2 of the Project, to be provided 
in accordance with Section 3.03 (c) of the DCA;  
 
(b) 
the term “training” means the fees of educational or other institutions and 
organizations that provide training services, cost of study tours, cost of workshops, 
related travel expenditures, boarding, lodging and per diem allowances of the trainees;  
 
(c) 
“services” means reasonable and necessary expenditures with respect to services 
required for Project implementation, including for the development of staff training manuals and 
curricula; the development of enterprise social plans and the design of relevant programs, 
implementation procedures, operating guidelines and manuals; the development of a database on 
redundant workers; the launching and pilot testing of relevant programs; the development of local 
economic potential studies, promotional and information materials; information dissemination; 
monitoring, assessment and evaluation of labor redeployment programs and active labor market 
programs; surveys of program participants; translation; and auditing; and
 
(d) 
“incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental 
expenditures, as approved by IDA on the basis of budgets acceptable to IDA, incurred by the 
MOLE and LMB with respect to Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office space, office supplies, utilities, publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation, 
travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials and employees of the Recipient, 
the Republic of Serbia and LMB. 
 
Page  6
-
6
-
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement; (ii) on account of payments for 
any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient on goods; (iii) on account of expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) 
in respect of Category (1), unless the requirements set forth in Section 3.03(c) of the DCA have been 
fulfilled. 
 
(b) 
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 30, 2006, or such 
later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
ensure that the government of the Republic of Serbia delivers to IDA, on behalf of the Recipient, a 
written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA. Withdrawal 
applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance of the 
government of the Republic of Serbia or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in 
writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably 
request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications 
shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient, or the government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the 
Recipient, is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the government 
of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order 
of the government of the Republic of Serbia. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first two contracts procured under 
international shopping procedures, and the first two contracts procured under national shopping 
procedures; (b) training and services for individuals costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each, 
and firms costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) labor redeployment services under 
Part A.2 of the Project under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) 
incremental operating costs,
 
all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.  
 
Page  7
-
7
-
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request, or at the government of the Republic of Serbia’s request, acting on behalf 
of the Recipient, as the case may be, and in either case IDA acting as an agent of the Recipient or the 
government of the Republic of Serbia, as the case may be, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be 
as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in Euro 
(as defined in the DCA) a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia maintains a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepares financial statements in a format 
acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia: (i) has the records, accounts 
and financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnishes to IDA as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnishes 
to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall ensure that the Republic of 
Serbia: (i) maintains or causes to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retains, until at least one year after IDA has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; (iii) enables IDA’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensures that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
Page  8
-
8
-
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with 
IDA shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities. 
 
Page  9
-
9
-
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods, including labor redeployment services under Part A.2 of the Project, shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed US$510,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000  per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed US$60,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  10
-
10
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of  Part 
B
of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in each Part C.1 and C.2 of Section I of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall provide to IDA 
a
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received and a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction, Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for auditing services under Part D of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000  equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  11
-
11
-
3. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Labor redeployment services under Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, or estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per 
contract in cases where the short list is comprised entirely of national consultants, may be 
procured in accordance with the procedures acceptable to IDA and based on the criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual.
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (b) monitoring and evaluation tasks under Part A of the Project may 
be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of IDA. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be furnished to IDA, 
for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals. 
Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Project, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval.  Selection of all co
nsultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to 
time), as shall have been approved by IDA. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  12
-
12
-
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means the Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to US$150,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment, provided, however, unless IDA shall otherwise agree, said 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$75,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
US$250,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the government of the Republic of Serbia furnishes 
to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the government of the Republic of Serbia shall 
have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall ensure that 
the government of the Republic of Serbia furnishes to IDA requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall ensure that 
the government of the Republic of Serbia furnishes to IDA the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  
On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the government of the Republic of Serbia shall have 
requested on behalf of the Recipient, and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
Page  13
-
13
-
4. 
For each payment made by the government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the 
Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall ensure that the government of the 
Republic of Serbia, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnishes to IDA such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient or the government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Recipient 
directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the government of the Republic of Serbia shall have failed to furnish to IDA, 
within the period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the 
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
