Document of
The World Bank                              1 12 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3282-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
April 19, 1982
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Baht (B)
US$1 = B 23.00
B 1 = US$0.0435
B 1,000,000 = US$43,478.26
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAT       Communications Authority of Thailand
CIF    : Cost, Insurance and Freight
FPU       Fundamental Planning Unit
ITU       International Telecommunication Union
NEC       Nippon Electric Company
NESDB     National Economic and Social Development Board
OES       Office of Economic Study
PCM       Pulse Code Modulation
PTD       Posts and Telegraphs Department
SPC    : Stored Program Control
STD       Subscriber Trunk Dialling
TOT    : Telephone Organization of Thailand
TTC       Telecommunications Training Center
UHF       Ultra High Frequency
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
VHF       Very High Frequency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT)
Guarantor:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          $142.1 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Term:            20 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:  The proposed project is designed to strengthen the Borrower
as an institution and comprises a balanced package of high
priority works which will (a) expand local telephone facili-
ties in Bangkok and the provinces; (b) extend service to about
330 additional rural communities (tambons); and (c) expand
facilities to cater to the resultant additional long distance
traffic. The project includes: (a) provision of management
consultants, technical assistance and training fellowships;
(b) installation of (i) about 373,000 lines of local switching
equipment with associated local cable distribution networks
and subscriber plant; (ii) about 20,000 circuit terminations
in tandem exchanges in Bangkok; (iii) about 16,000 circuit
terminations in long distance trunk automatic exchanges; and
(iv) about 345 radio and cable transmission systems, and about
22,000 channel ends; (c) procurement of about 300 vehicles of
different types for project implementation; and (d) civil
works for the project including cable ducts. The benefits of
the project would be widespread; it is designed to meet about
80% of the registered demand in the five main provincial
cities and about 60% in Bangkok.  Public telephones will
provide access for the first time to about 3 million rural
inhabitants in about 330 villages and environs; the proportion
of the country's population living in places with telephone
service is expected to increase from 30% at the end of the
Third Project to 35%. Special steps have been taken to
overcome the major source of delays in project implementation
in the past, namely, evaluation and award of bids; hence there
is little risk of delay in implementing the proposed project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Local Foreign Total
($ million) ----
Estimated Cost:    Local switching equipment                  25.1   110.4   135.5
Cables and outside plant                 41.7    60.5   102.2
Subscriber plant                         23.7     -       23.7
Trunk switching equipment                 2.5      9.0    11.5
Transmission equipment                    7.8    28.2    36.0
Rural public call offices                12.2    36.8    49.0
Land and buildings                       46.1      -      46.1
Vehicles                                  4.3      -       4-3
Consultancy and training                  0.6      3.0     3.6
Miscellaneous works and costs             8.7      -        8.7
Total Base Costs                        172.7   247.9   420.6
Physical contingencies                    3.5      4.9      8.5
Price contingencies                      39.1    24.0    63.1
Total Project Costs                     215.3   276.9   492.2
Front-end fee on Bank loan                -        2.1     2.1
Total Financing Required                215.3   279.0   494.3
Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) ----
Financing Plan:    Bank                                        -     142.1   142.1
Suppliers' and export credits,
commercial banks                        -     136.9   136.9
TOT                                     215.3      -     215.3
Total                           215.3   279.0   494.3
Bank FY:   1983       1984       1985      1986    1987.
…------- ($ million)                …
Estimated
Disbursements:   Annual              16.1      20.0       34.0      40.0      32.0
Cumulative         16.1     36.1        70.1    110.1    142.1
Rate of Return:    43%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3784-TH of April 19, 1982



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE TELEPHONE ORGANIZATION OF THAILAND
FOR A FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT) with the Guarantee of the
Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $142.1 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Fourth Telecommunications
Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on September
18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated, and an
economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic Economy
(Report No. 3067a-TH)," which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with
the problems was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September 1980
and issued on January 8, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Frequent changes at the top levels of government have character-
ized recent political developments in Thailand. General Kriangsak Chomanan
was Prime Minister from November 1977 to February 1980. His third cabinet
resigned following increasing public and parliamentary criticism of its
economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected by the National
Assembly as Prime Minister after receiving the support of nearly all major
political parties. General Prem's government, formed in March 1980,
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. General
Prem soon announced his government's policies on a number of issues
including economic and social development.  These policies place high and
immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes
and improving health and education. Particular emphasis was given to
generating more jobs, and a rural public works program, similar to the
1975/76 Tambon Program, was included as a major element in the strategy.
The Government also committed itself to contain inflation, although it
recognized the need for a substantial adjustment of energy prices and most
public enterprise tariffs. Furthermore, it decided to institute reforms in
monetary and fiscal policy and to reduce the trade deficit through improved
export performance and development of domestic energy resources.
/1 Part I is essentially the same as that included in the President's
Report (P-3175-TH) dated December 10, 1981 for the Second Tree Crops
Project (Loan 2078-TH) approved by the Executive Directors on January 7,
1982.



- 2 -
4.        After a period of political consolidation, during which an attempt
was also made to inform the public better about the need to take corrective
measures, the Government began to take steps to implement these policies in
the fail of 1980. In March 1981, however, the Social Action Party and other
coalition parties withdrew from the cabinet on an issue of handling fuel oil
contracts and a new cabinet was formed comprising members of the United,
Chart Thai, and Democrat parties as well as a number of technocrats. Shortly
thereafter there was an attempted coup by a group of military officers which,
however, failed. During much of the summer of 1981, the political position
of the second Prem cabinet appeared to be weak, particularly in the wake of
the devaluation of the baht against the dollar in July, which resulted in
much public criticism. Since then, however, the Prime Minister's position
strengthened, not least because of the relatively favorable economic
developments, especially in the agricultural sector. Parliament passed the
FY82 budget nearly unanimously. In December 1981, the Government's parlia-
mentary basis was broadened significantly when the Social Action Party
rejoined the cabinet.
Past Economic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        The 1960s and early 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic
development in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4 to 5%
per capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely
on an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response
to export opportunities, was a major factor contributing to these develop-
ments as well as to a sustained growth of exports. An increase in the
investment level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid indus-
trial growth. Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keep-
ing the debt service ratio quite low. The incidence of poverty was reduced
substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to about 31% by 1975/76. However,
poverty still remains a problem, and significant regional disparities exist,
with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the highest per
capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecommunica-
tions, schools, public health and other services than the other three regions,
the North, the Northeast and the South. Considerable variations also remain
within regions: farmers who have diversified into the new cash crops have
in many cases succeeded in crossing the poverty line, while the incomes of
those unable to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. By
the mid-1970s it became apparent that Thailand was facing increasingly
difficult problems of development, including the lack of new arable land to
continue to absorb the rapidly growing labor force, and an emerging balance
of payments constraint as a result of deteriorating terms of trade. In
order to deal with such problems the country needed to shift its pattern of
growth from one based on the extension of land under cultivation and on
import substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use of
land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions.
6.        In the past three years Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A



- 3 -
relatively high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.7% per annum
between 1975 and 1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 6.3% in 1980) but this was
accompanied by accelerating inflation, large fiscal and external deficits
and growing dependence on foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by
8% in 1977 and 1978, by 10% in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central
Government deficit reached 4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued
rapid export growth, the current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in
1977 and 1978, but it rose to 7.5% of GDP in 1979 and 7.2% of GDP in 1980;
consequently there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand-s initially low
external debt.
7.        Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to
the changing internal and external conditions, but, beginning in 1979,
policy adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They
included sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and
electricity, measures to increase government revenues, amendments to the
usury laws, which permitted an increase in interest rates, and the
introduction of regulations to increase financial stability and exercise
more monetary restraint. In the second half of 1980, the Government began
to give serious attention to developing a longer-term comprehensive program
for the economy, and continued to implement necessary, but politically
contentious, economic decisions. In October 1980 price controls were lifted
on 29 of 36 goods. In the same month the Government started on a reform of
the tariff structure, reducing import duties on 10 categories of electrical
goods by between 10% and 60%. In November, retail prices of sugar, which
had fallen out of line with international prices, causing domestic
shortages, were increased by 60%. In a number of successive steps,
electricity and petroleum prices were increased further, and by mid-1981
they were nearly two-and-a-half times as high as at the start of 1979.
During the first half of 1981, charges for other public services (water,
transport, communications) were increased substantially (mostly by at least
50%). During this period, the Government also introduced various fiscal
measures designed to limit the central government deficit.
8.         Despite the effect that these measures inevitably had on the price
level and on effective demand, economic performance in most areas appears to
have been good during the first nine months of 1981. Agricultural
production and incomes increased rapidly, due to favorable weather and,
until recently, agricultural export prices (which a domestic rice price
support program helped to reflect in farmgate prices). The demand and
interindustry effects of a buoyant agricultural sector are stimulating the
other sectors of the economy, largely compensating for the reduced stimulus
from the public sector. Thus, while some sectors of the economy, notably
construction, are weak, the authorities do not foresee a general recession.
At the same time, price pressures have lessened considerably; on a June to
June basis, the increase in the Consumer Price Index of 24% for 1979/80 was
reduced to 12% for 1980/81. Because of reduced inflation and increased
nominal interest rates, real interest rates on 1-2 year time deposits have
now become positive, and private commercial borrowing entails a substantial
real cost.



- 4 -
9.        The one area in which the situation did not improve in the first
half of 1981, was the balance of payments. The trade deficit in that period
was $1.6 billion, about $0.5 billion more than in the first half of 1980.
Some deterioration was to be expected, as the deficit in 1980 had been below
trend as a result of a bulge in imports of non-oil intermediates in 1979,
which led to a below-normal level of such imports in 1980. In addition,
exports in the first quarter of 1981 fell below the trend, while the capital
account was negatively influenced by high interest rates abroad. In July,
the pressure on the balance of payments became so strong that the Government
decided to break the longstanding link of the baht to the (then rapidly
appreciating) dollar, decreasing the dollar value of the baht by about 9%,
but keeping the trade-weighted exchange rate of the baht approximately at
the level of the preceding year. Subsequently, the trade deficit has
started to decrease, but for the year 1981 as a whole, it is still likely
that the current account deficit will be somewhat higher than the 1980
deficit in absolute amount, although it may be slightly lower (6-7% of GDP)
in relative terms.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which contri-
buted to Thailand's rapid socio-economic development over the past two
decades will continue to do so. These factors include a relatively
equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to
economic incentives and improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry and
agriculture. Also, major gains have been made in family planning in recent
years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3% during the
1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth
two decades later). A new favorable factor is that the first phase of the
infrastructure to tap the substantial natural gas reserves in the Gulf of
Siam was completed in September 1981, enabling a gradual but significant
reduction in Thailand's dependence on foreign oil.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, three major negative
ones must be recognized. Firstly, partly as a result of external influences,
Thailand's current account deficits reached, over the years 1979-81, levels
which are unsustainable in the medium term and therefore must be reduced.
Secondly, the outlook for the world economy is not favorable, and tendencies
toward protectionism are increasing, thus limiting the opportunity to
increase exports (unless offset by effective domestic policies). Thirdly,
the exhaustion of land reserves threatens to severely constrain the growth
in agricultural production, exports and absorption of labor.
12.       In response to the challenges posed by the general economic out-
look for Thailand, the Government has searched intensively for policy
alternatives which would correct the fiscal and external imbalances without
undue consequences for the growth of incomes and employment, especially for
the poor. Its efforts are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, which



covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major (and inter-
related) objectives are equity, financial stability, and national security
(growth is seen as a derived, rather than a primary objective). The
Government aims at reconciling these objectives over the five-year period of
the Plan, partly through a reduction in lower-priority expenditures, which
is already being implemented, but mainly through medium-term structural
adjustments which improve production incentives and increase the efficiency
of the economy, and improve its competitiveness, both in the external and
domestic markets.
13.       To assist it in realizing these objectives, the Government has
sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. Agreement was reached with
the Fund on a major standby program, which covers a two-year period starting
in April 1981, and amounts to SDR 814.5 million. In addition, the Fund in
July 1981 provided Thailand with SDR 186 million under its Compensatory
Financing Facility. With regard to the Bank, the Government has requested
assistance in further developing and implementing the structural adjustment
program, incorporated in the Fifth Plan, through a series of structural
adjustment loans. An appraisal mission for the first such loan visited
Thailand in August/September and the loan was approved by the Executive
Directors on March 2, 1982.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they
are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater efforts will
be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the
past. The Government-s domestic revenue, as a percent of GDP (about 14% for
1978 to 1980), is low compared to other developing countries at similar
levels of development. Recently the Government has achieved a modest improve-
ment in its revenues through revision of the tax structure and improved
collections. Further tax measures are planned, particularly in the area of
improved tax administration and structure. The goal is to increase Central
Government revenues to about 18% of GDP by 1986, thus substantially reducing
the budgetary deficits and thereby limiting the reliance on foreign
financing. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which
has already improved substantially in the wake of recent tariff increases,
is expected to continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing
policies.
15.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic
projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at levels
over $2 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP to about 4% in
1987. Even the realization of this target will require large amounts of
external borrowing, totalling about $25 billion over the period 1982-875 of



- 6 -
which about half is expected to be in the form of public and publicly
guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance,
total debt service payments as a percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services will rise from 11.6% in 1980 to 17.9% in 1987. Given the diversi-
fication of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of agricul-
tural and manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate
structural adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be
sustainable.
16.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks,
have been expanding their programs to meet a larger part of Thailand's
growing resource requirements. The rest has been financed through syndicated
loans and bond issues. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy
Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public
sector. The Bank of Thailand is improving its procedures for recording
private borrowing abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt.
External agencies, including the Bank Group, have in recent years increasing-
ly concentrated on project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have
high social benefits, but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To
achieve the level of external resource transfer that is now required, it is
necessary, in selected projects where the foreign exchange component is low,
to finance some local currency expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1982, had received 69 IBRD loans (including
two third window loans) and six IDA credits, totalling (net of cancellations)
$2,558 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$1,337.3 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.
18.       Overall implementation of Bank projects in Thailand has improved
steadily during the past five years. Thailand's disbursement ratio
increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 24.9% in 1981. These rates are better than
the Bank-wide average and the rates for other countries in the region. In
1981, the Bank-wide average was 21.5% while the ratios for two comparator
countries, the Philippines and Morrocco, were 17.9% and 11.7%, respectively.
The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar terms,
has been as follows: 32% for energy; 27% for agriculture and rural
development; 16% for transportation; 6% for telecommunications; 6% for urban
development; 2% for education; 3% for industry; 2% for population/
health/nutrition; and 6% for structural adjustment lending.
19.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a



- 7 -
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government-s
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76 investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 60% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 30%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector
has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more bal-
anced program covering irrigation (including land development and support
services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farm-
ers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricul-
tural extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in
the social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to three in education
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent
years education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 10% of the program.
20.       For the future, the Bank-s assistance objectives are to support the
Government-s development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan
for the period 1982-1986, to address: (a) the long-term issues of poverty
alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income disparities; and
(b) the medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy through the inten-
sification of agriculture, efficient development of the industrial sector,
promotion of domestic energy conservation and development, increased public
resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity in the public
sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in
Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral lending,
especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at strengthen-
ing the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.
21.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth
particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the
country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at
continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and
rural development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening
the long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government-s goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sectors will be designed to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,



- 8 -
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.
22.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,063.2 million as of March 31, 1982. As of December 31, 1980,
Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 11.7% of total
debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of total debt
service payments amounted to 8.3% in 1980. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall external debt (18% of GDP in 1980) and the
declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt service in
total debt service.
23.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC had made commitments totalling $110.6
million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily
in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed at
mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC-s assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community, projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector, and prolects in the agricul-
tural sector. A tantalum processing project and a shrimp farming venture
are being considered by IFC management.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
24.       Access to Service.  As of January 1980, Thailand had an average
telephone density of 1.0 telephones per 100 inhabitants, somewhat above the
0.7 for developing countries in the East Asia region, but less than Malaysia
with 3.3, Republic of Korea 7.8, and Singapore 26.5. Likewise, Bangkok, the
capital city, which has by far the most developed telephone service in the
country, has only 5.4 telephones per 100 population compared to Manila with
7.9, Seoul 15.1 Taipei 27.7, and Kuala Lumpur 32.1. In mid-1981, of the
6,033 tambons in Thailand, only 666 tambons, with 25% of the country's
population, had access to telephone service. Under the ongoing FY78-84
investment program, about 286 additional tambons will obtain service. There
are currently about 5,800 local and long distance pay (coin box) telephones
in Bangkok and 750 in provincial towns. About 4,500 more pay telephones are
to be added in Bangkok and 1,500 in provincial towns under the ongoing
program.
25.       Usage of Service.  In 1980, about 62% of the country's telephone
lines were connected to business and government subscribers and the balance
to residential subscribers. About 90% of the nonresidential subscribers
were engaged in communications-intensive tertiary sectors of the economy,



- 9 -
mainly wholesale and retail trade, finance, transport, communication,
utilities and other services, and government administration. The average
number of calls per subscriber line per annum was about 2,500 local calls
and 50 long distance calls. Business lines accounted for about 83% of
telephone calls and revenues while about 90% of all telephone calls and
revenues in Thailand related mainly to production and distribution
activities.
26.       Quality of Service.  The total number of faults reported and
cleared per month per subscriber decreased by about 40% in the last three
years. However, because of the shortage of telephones, vis-a-vis the demand,
the usage of available telephone lines is very high, especially during peak
business hours. This condition leads to repeat call attempts which, in
turn, worsen congestion so that overall, only 62% of daily local call attempts
are completed. Fully automatic national subscriber trunk dialling (STD)
service was achieved by the end of 1980, and resulted in sharp increases in
the long distance traffic and revenues.  In a period of tvw  months after STD
was introduced, the number of long distance calls from the northwest region
to Bangkok and revenues therefrom increased by about 155%; while calls and
revenues from Bangkok to the northwest region increased by about 65%.
27.       Demand for Service.  The Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT)
started to build up a data base for assessing demand after a system to
record the waiting lists for existing service areas was introduced in 1977
under the Bank-financed Second Telecommunications Project. However, the
registered demand is likely to be far below the real demand as there are
many potential subscribers who are discouraged from registering by the long
waiting periods for obtaining new connections, and applications are not
received in areas where service is not currently available. As of September
30, 1981, the registered unmet demand in Bangkok was 226,600 (44% of total
demand) and in the provinces 99,600 (49% of total demand). The forecast
annual growth rates in total demand to 1990 of 15% for Bangkok and 20% for
the provincial areas are considered reasonable.
Sector Organization
28.       Three entities under the Ministry of Communications, namely, the
Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT), the Communications Authority of
Thailand (CAT), and the Posts and Telegraphs Department (PTD), are respon-
sible for Thailand-s public telecommunications and postal services. TOT and
CAT are wholy state-owned autonomous corporations, each managed by a Board
of Directors appointed by the Government, with the Chairmen reporting to the
Minister of Communications. PTD is a government department under the Under
Secretary, Communications which regulates, manages and monitors radio
frequencies, and licenses public and private radio communication stations;
it also represents the Government on all international telecommunications
matters. TOT mainly operates the domestic local and long distance public
telephone service, which accounts for the bulk of the sector's existing
assets and planned investment. In the future, TOT will develop other
domestic services essentially based on the use of the telephone network (low



- LO -
speed data, facsimile and telephoto). CAT operates the postal service and
the public international telephone service interconnected with TOT (except
to neighboring countries), and in the future, will develop new services which
require a network distinct from the telephone system (mainly high speed and
message switched data transmission).
29.       A committee in the Ministry of Communications coordinates invest-
ment and services of CAT and TOT. Efficiency loss from plant duplications
of these entities in the FY82-85 period is expected to be small. Numerous
government agencies and some large private industrial and commercial entities
still operate their own radio telephone networks, but their earlier proli-
feration leading to inefficient investment has now been checked.  Various
other government bodies have regulatory powers over TOT and CAT. The
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the Cabinet
approve TOT's budget and investment programs. The Ministry of Finance
sanctions all of TOT's borrowings. The Ministries of Communications and
Finance, NESDB and the Budget Bureau have roles in the process of revising
telecommunications tariffs, which are established by Cabinet decree.
Sector Goals and Constraints
30.       A ten-year Master Plan for the Transportation and Communication
sector has been under development since 1979 and subjected to successive
rounds of review by the Ministry of Communications, NESDB and the partici-
pating sector entities. The current draft of the Master Plan covers the
years FY82-91. In a broad sense, the targets set by the Master Plan are
consistent with the outline for the Fifth National Economic and Social
Development Plan (FY82-86); both plans emphasize telecommunications invest-
ment in the provinces, extension of service to most amphoes (districts), and
more expeditious provision of services in the main urban centers. An
important goal is that by the end of FY86, all amphoes with 10,000 inhabi-
tants or more will have been provided with telephone facilities through long
distance public call offices, which can subsequently be upgraded to exchange
connections. In order to attain the Master Plan targets for FY86, TOT's
growth rate in lines connected would have to increase from about 11% per
annum over the period FY78-81 to a very high 23% in FY82-86 and would
require improvement of TOT's management procedures, organization, and
training. TOT-s implementation capacity is also being augmented by resorting
increasingly to private suppliers and contractors for equipment installation
in addition to the more usual use of private contractors for buildings and
other civil works.
The Bank's Role
31.       During the last ten years, the Bank has assisted in the
development of the telephone services in Thailand through three projects.
The First Telecommunications Project (Loan 864-TH of December 1972 for US$37
million) was designed to provide facilities needed to prevent further
deterioration in the quality of telephone service from increasing traffic
congestion and faults in areas where service was available. Based on



- 11 -
recommendations of consultants financed by the Bank, TOT was reorganized in
the early 1970s to improve its capabilities in management, operation and
development of the domestic telephone services. Under the Second Telecommu-
nications Project (Loan 1253-TH of June 1976 for US$26 million), the Bank
supported TOT's expansion of the local telephone facilities in Bangkok and
other urban areas to meet part of the demand, and towards provision of
stable, high capacity, long distance radio telephone systems and trunk
automatic exchanges. The first project was completed four years behind
schedule and the loan was closed on December 31, 1980. The second project
was completed two years behind schedule and the loan was closed on Decem-
ber 31, 1981. In both projects, the delays were primarily at start-up and
procurement stages; otherwise, TOT½s performance was adequate, all physical
targets were achieved and the loan covenants met. Because the Closing Dates
were only one year apart with many works being executed concurrently, a com-
bined Project Completion Report for the two projects is under preparation.
32.       Under the Third Telecommunications Project (Loan 1620-TH of
October 1978 for US$90 million), the Bank has assisted TOT (a) to undertake
a greatly accelerated pace of telephone expansion; (b) to establish rural
long distance public call offices to provide access to service in rural
areas for the first time; (c) to adopt the latest electronic digital
technology rather than the older electromechanical equipment designs; and
(d) to carry out institutional measures needed to improve efficiency and
management. The Third Project is currently about two years behind schedule
because of delays in the decision to adopt digital technology, in the
evaluation of bids and the awarding of contracts.
33.       To a large extent, through the experience gained in carrying out
the Bank-financed projects, TOT has developed expertise in technical
planning, design and implementation of domestic telephone development
programs. Overall, TOT-s financial situation and outlook are adequate to
support rapid growth while also contributing considerable amounts to
Government through taxes and import duties. However, TOT's organization and
management have had difficulties in keeping pace with the large growth in
services achieved and planned. In view of the major expansion envisaged
during FY82-85 and thereafter, an important role for the Bank would be to
help TOT consolidate and improve its institutional development. Hence, the
proposed project would focus on:
(a) helping TOT to design and implement a comprehensive package of
organization and management improvements which would enable
TOT to undertake a sustained and more rapid service development,
and operate and manage the services provided in an effective
and efficient manner, with minimum recourse to external guidance;
(b) promoting within TOT, a more dynamic attitude towards the
adoption of new technologies when technically and economically
justified, and accelerating the transition to the new technologies
chosen; and



- 12 -
(c) assisting TOT in developing guidelines for future investment that
are responsive to priorities set forth by the Government in its
National Plans, particularly those pertaining to accelerated
extension of service to different categories of provincial cities
and rural areas.
PART IV - THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
34.       TOT's FY82-85 investment program comprises (a) ongoing works,
mainly relating to the Bank-financed Third Telecommunications Project, (b)
the proposed project, (c) preparatory investments for works to be undertaken
after FY85, and (d) other annual investments which, though not directly
related to expansion of facilities, are essential for maintenance, operation
and management of existing facilities and those to be installed under the
program. The total investments under this program are estimated at $1,350
million equivalent with a foreign cost component of $670 million equivalent.
The proposed Fourth Telecommunications project is a balanced integrated
package of high priority works consisting of (a) expanding local telephone
facilities in Bangkok and the provinces; (b) extending service for the first
time to about 330 additional tambons; and (c) expanding long distance
facilities to cater for the additional traffic so generated (see Map IBRD
16149). In addition to physical expansion of telephone facilities, a major
thrust of the project will be on institution building. A Bank appraisal
mission visited Thailand in October 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
3784-TH, dated April 19, 1982) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are presented in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 29 to April 2, 1982. The TOT delegation was headed by Lt. General
Sawaeng Chamonchant, Acting Managing Director and the Government was
represented by Mr. Suwan Pasugswad, Chief Loan Officer, Fiscal Policy Office,
Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
35.       The main components of the project are:  (a)  provision of
management consultants, technical assistance and training fellowships for
improving TOT's institutional capabilities; (b) installation of (i) about
373,000 lines of local switching equipment with associated local cable
distribution networks and subscriber plant; (ii) about 20,000 circuit
terminations in tandem exchanges in Bangkok; (iii) about 16,000 circuit
terminations in. long distance trunk automatic exchanges; (iv) about 345
radio and cable transmission systems, and about 22,000 channel ends; (c)
procurement of about 300 vehicles of different types for project implemen-
tation; and (d) civil works for the project, including cable ducts.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
36.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $492.2 million
equivalent including a foreign cost component of $276.9 million equivalent.
The local cost component of about $215.3 million equivalent includes about



- 13 -
$42.5 million equivalent in duties and taxes. The cost estimates, based on
TOT's contracts for ongoing works with adjustments to March 1982 levels, are
reasonable. Based on TOT s contracts with foreign consulting firms in 1980,
the cost of management consultants has been assessed at $15,000 per man-month
and of training and other experts at $5,700 per man-month.
37.       The provisions for equipment and civil works are based mainly on
detailed designs and engineering and are not expected to change significantly
in the project period. A physical contingency of 2% of base local and foreign
costs has been included and is considered adequate. Foreign price contin-
gencies are based on annual cost increases of 8.0% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5%
for 1984 and 7.0% for 1985. Local price contingencies are based on annual
cost increases of 12% in 1982 and 1983, 10% in 1984 and 9% in 1985. Since
telecommunications contracts are normally fixed price contracts, the foreign
cost increases are applied up to the anticipated contract dates. Based on
these assumptions, the local and foreign price contingencies amount to 22.2%
and 9.5%, respectively.
38.       The local cost of the project amounting to $215.3 million equiva-
lent will be financed from TOT's internal cash generation, and from
subscriber bonds and customer deposits which are pooled with earnings and
applied to operational and developmental expenses without separate alloca-
tions. Of the proposed Bank loan of $142.1 million equivalent, $2.1
million equivalent comprise the front-end fee and $140 million equivalent
would finance about 50% of the foreign cost. The balance of the foreign
cost of about $136.9 million would be financed through suppliers' and export
credits and commercial bank loans. TOT is negotiating a supplier's credit
of about $50 million equivalent with Nippon Electric Company of Japan which
will supply the switching equipment for the Bangkok Metropolitan Area. In
inviting bids for equipment items other than those financed by the proposed
Bank loan, TOT is requiring bidders to propose terms for supplier's credit.
TOT will decide on the financing of these items after bids are opened. The
contracts not financed by supplier's credits will be covered by bilateral
credits or commercial bank loans. TOT does not anticipate undue difficulty in
arranging these when and as needed.
The Borrower
39.       Organization and Management.  TOT, an autonomous state enterprise,
is administered by an eight-member Board of Directors. The Board comprises
the Chairman, the Managing Director of TOT, the President of CAT, the
Director General of PTD and four other external directors appointed by the
Government. While TOT's organization is adequate overall for current needs
and TOT's senior and middle management staff are individually experienced,
competent and qualified, there are some deficiencies especially in terms of
dealing with the very large increase in the volume of operations expected in
the next few years. The main deficiencies are that (a) the delegation of
authority at all levels is inadequate, (b) the decision-making process is slow
and cumbersome (c) the functional responsibilities of various departments are
not well-defined, and (d) there is inadequate coordination between the



- 14 -
different departments in executing the expansion program and utilizing the
facilities installed. Accordingly, under the proposed project, a firm of
management consultants would review, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, TOT's organization and management, identify weaknesses, suggest
changes and assist in their implementation (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). As a priority item, the consultants will review and implement
changes in administrative procedures necessary for TOT to absorb and exploit
without delay the large local network capacity that would become available
from early 1984.
40.       Long-term Planning.  To improve TOT-s in-house expertise in
long-range planning and economic work, the proposed project would provide the
necessary foreign expertise for TOT's Fundamental Planning Unit (FPU) and
Office of Economic Study (OES). Individual experts, under terms of references
satisfactory to the Bank will (a) assist the FPU and the OES in setting up and
implementing a comprehensive work program and provide overall guidance in the
development of long-term planning in TOT (24 manmonths); (b) help carry out a
study of telephone tariffs (six man-months); (c) help upgrade TOT's current
practices in demand forecasting (six man-months); and (d) help develop
guidelines for future TOT investments (eight man-months) (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The proposed loan would also finance about 48 man-
months of overseas training for FPU and OES staff.
41.       Staffing and Training.  In 1981, TOT had a staff of about 11,200,
or about 21 employees per 1,000 telephones; this suggests a good labor
productivity, higher than in most other developing countries, but amenable
to further improvement. The pay scales are reasonable, and TOT has had
little difficulty in recruiting staff of requisite caliber; staff turnover
is negligible. TOT's assessment of future staff requirements is based on
current methods of operation, and the employee/telephone ratio has been
forecast to improve to about 16 per 1,000 telephones by 1985. However, TOT
has not made a detailed manpower study of its future staff requirements,
taking into account (a) new technologies and services being introduced, (b)
changes in the pattern of services, (c) likely reorganization of its
administration, and (d) introduction of modern management techniques.
Hence, it is proposed that the management consultants carry out a manpower
study and prepare a manpower plan for TOT up to 1990.
42.       TOT has a well equipped Telecommunications Training Center (TTC)
on the outskirts of Bangkok. However, TTC has been underutilized and the
current program does not address adequately the recent changes in TOT's
organization and the introduction of new technologies. To remedy this
situation, the management consultants will review the training requirements of
TOT and, based on the findings of the manpower study, propose suitable
training programs. The proposed loan includes financing for about 48 man-
months of foreign training instructors for TTC and 150 man-months of training
abroad of TTC instructors.
43.       Accounting and Budgeting.  TOT's computerized accounting and
budgeting system is satisfactory. Annual budgets are prepared on a monthly
basis; each department or office is responsible for controlling its own



- 15 -
budget and reports to the budget division every month and quarter. TOT is
currently in the process of implementing a comprehensive management
information system which, among other items, covers the finance and accounts
aspects of its operations. Full implementation of this system is expected
by about June 1982.
44.       Billing and Collection.  TOT-s billing system is computerized and
is satisfactory. However, the traditional bill collection method involving
house-to-house visit by bill collectors proved inadequate for TOT½s rapidly
expanding system. As a result, accounts receivables have risen from a low of
11% of revenues in 1977 to about 32% in 1981. A new bill collection system
involving invoices being sent by mail and payments being remitted by
subscribers through mail, commercial banks and/or at TOT s collection offices
is being implemented under the ongoing Third Telecommunications Project. This
system is expected to be fully operational by end-1982. With increased
attention being paid to bill collection and arrears monitoring, receivables
are expected to be reduced from about 24% in 1982 to about 18% in 1985, which
is acceptable.
Project Implementation
45.       TOT engineers prepare all engineering designs, technical
specifications and bid invitation documents; they also evaluate bids and
prepare contracts. In order to avoid delays in the implementation of the
proposed project, the invitation to bid for major project items,
Bank-financed and otherwise, were issued prior to loan negotiations. The
award of contracts for major equipment items and to the selected firm of
management consultants (para. 39) would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 7.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.        Installation of major switching and transmission equipment and
cable networks would be carried out by suppliers. The operation and
maintenance of facilities and the administrative, commercial and other
functions associated with the connection of new lines to subscribers will be
carried out by TOT. The project is expected to be completed by September
30, 1985. The Bank and TOT reached agreement on a set of performance
indicators which will help TOT-s management and the Bank to monitor project
implementation, operational and financial performance. TOT will include
these indicators in its semi-annual progress reports on the project except
for financial indicators which will be included in the annual financial
report.
Procurement and Retroactive Financing
47.       Of the 344,000 lines of new local switching equipment to be procured
under the proposed project, TOT has already included about 40,200 lines, com-
prising extension of the digital exchanges under the ongoing third project, in
a Bank-financed contract for the main equipment. The Bank agreed to this
advance contracting for about $11.9 million equivalent of equipment because of



- 16 -
the considerable technical and price advantages of procuring and installing
the extension equipment simultaneously with the main equipment. As of
March 1, 1982, TOT announced bids, on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guide'lines, for all other
switching and transmission equipment, totalling about $123 million, to be
financed under the proposed Bank loan. TOT expects to sign contracts for
these items and with the management consultants between June and November
1982. At the request of TOT, it was agreed during negotiations that the Bank
would provide retroactive financing of up to $14 million representing the
possible 10% down payments to be made for these contracts after June 1, 1982
(Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). Domestic manufacturers
would receive a margin of preference of 15% or the import duty, whichever is
the lower. Items that cannot be grouped to form packages of more than
$100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with TOT½s procurement procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements under the loan would cover.  (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures (CIF) for imported goods; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
installation and supervision services by suppliers; (c) 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items; (d) 65% of the cost of items
procured locally off-the-shelfj and (e) 100% of the cost of consultant
services and training of staff abroad. All disbursements will be made
against full documentation. The proposed loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by June 30, 1987.
Tariffs
49.       TOT's current telephone tariffs mainly comprise (a) a B 1,500-
2,500 (US$65-109) nonreimbursable one-time connection charge, (b) a monthly
rental of B 50-100 (US$22-44) and (c) a B 2.00 ($0.09) unit call charge for
untimed local calls or timed, distance dependent component of long distance
calls. Prospective subscribers are required to purchase TOT bonds intended
to ration excess connections demand while providing TOT with low cost
investment funds. There is a need to revise the structure of TOT's tariffs,
particularly the charges for long distance calls, especially in rural areas,
and the stimulation of system use outside business hours. With technical
assistance provided under the proposed project, TOT will carry out a review
of its tariffs, focusing on the cost of service and the characteristics of
demand, while also taking into account equity, regional development and other
objectives of Government policy. In the meantime, because the two-level bond
system applied in Bangkok is not operating efficiently in terms of setting
connection priorities nor administrative costs, TOT will review the system
and introduce changes acceptable to the Bank by March 31, 1983 (Section 4.03
of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       TOT's tariffs, last increased in late 1979, has provided TOT with a
reasonable rate of return on average assets in operation. In February 1982,



- 17 -
TOT requested Government authorization to increase tariffs in order to ensure
adequate internal cash g:!neration for its FY82-85 investment program (para.
52). Given that the demand for both connections and traffic exceeds the
system-s capabilities, this increase in tariffs is unlikely to have any
adverse effects on current overall resource allocation.
Financial Position
51.       Past financial performance of TOT has been reasonable.  During the
period FY77-81, gross assets of TOT doubled and self-generated funds were
sufficient to finance about 44% of the funds required for this large
expansion.   TOT's long-term debt as at September 30, 1981, made up of
subscriber bonds (23.4%), loans from IBRD (22.8%), loans from Exim Bank of
Japan (25.6%), OECF (22.3%), AB Svensk Exportkredit (4.7%) and various minor
domestic loans (1.2%), totalled about $207 million.
52.       TOT½s projected financial performance over the FY82-85 period is
good. The operating ratio over the period is projected to improve to a very
low level of 36% with no further tariff increases other than those currently
proposed. Internally generated funds are projected to be about 25% of
capital investment program, which is reasonable, given the large investment
program. TOT would take all such measures as necessary to produce funds from
internal sources equivalent to at least 20% of the capital expenditures
incurred during any one year of the FY82-85 period, at least 25% for the
whole period and at least 35% in FY86 (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). A condition of the effectiveness of the proposed loan is that
TOT shall have increased its fees and charges and the Government shall have
approved appropriate measures so that TOT can be expected to meet this
covenant for internal generation of funds (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Owing to an almost doubling of telephone lines in service during
the program period and to an increased utilization of the services, despite
inflation, TOT-s future rate of return on revalued assets is expected to
increase from 10% in FY82 to 20% in FY85.
53.       Financing Plan.  During the period FY82-85, TOT's financial
requirements, consisting mainly of the proposed project, other program works
and future works currently in the preinvestment stage total about $1,235
million. The sources of funds to meet these requirements consist of internal
cash generation of about $323 million, customer deposits of about $42 million
and long-term financing of about $870 million. Other than about $230 million
of Bank funds for the proposed and ongoing projects, the sources of long-term
funds include OECF, commercial bank loans, export credits, subscriber bonds
and loans from as yet unidentified sources. Including the proposed Bank
loan, about 50% of the overall amount has been confirmed. Of the remainder,
nearly 70% relates to future works for which it is too early to have
confirmed financing, and the balance is likely to be financed either through
export credits or commercial bank financing. No serious problems are
foreseen relating to the financing of the program.
54.       Revaluation of Assets.  To reduce possible distortion in asset
values by price inflation on the one hand and the declining unit costs of



- 18 -
telecommunications assets from improved technologies on the other, it was
concluded from the last asset revaluation exercise carried out in 1980 that,
in the future, assets would be adjusted on a memorandum basis to reflect the
current value of the assets, by being revalued from the 1980 revised base by
6% per annum, the annual increase in asset value experienced during the
three previous years. This method is acceptable and has been assumed in
this report. TOT agreed that by June 30, 1983, and annually thereafter, it
will review and revise its assets revaluation procedure so as to establish
the value of its fixed assets according to methods satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits
55.       Telecommunications and Economic Development.  Compared with
alternative means of communication, telecommunications are often more
efficient in terms of capital, energy consumption and user time. In terms
of the specific constraints on Thailand's economic and social development,
telecommunications can be expected to play a significant role in:
(a) reducing the costs of locating production outside Bangkok, thereby
helping to decentralize the economy; (b) facilitating the operation of small
enterprises, trade associations and support facilities; (c) improving access
to information thereby improving the working of the market mechanism;
(d) increasing the efficiency of transportation through coordination of
vehicle use and some substitution of travel, resulting in energy savings
and/or greater efficiency of productive interactions for a given level of
energy consumption; (e) facilitating the extension of social and other
governmental services to low income rural areas, including technical advice;
and (f) mobilizing domestic savings in the form of telecommunications taxes
and duties.
56.       Program Size and Composition.  At the completion of TOT's FY82-85
investment program, despite TOT's efforts for expansion at record high rates,
the unsatisfied demand of about 460,000 lines will be, in absolute terms,
larger than at its start. Nonetheless, by FY84 a turning point would have
been passed after which unmet demand is expected to decline, and by the end
of the project about 65% of total demand will have been met as against 54%
at its start. In general, the FY82-85 program comprises a well balanced
investment addressed to improve and expand service across the country in
response to forecast demand, broad regional priorities expressed by national
policy, and sound system engineering practice. Moreover, technical
assistance provided under the proposed project would ensure that future
investment planning would be based on better economic inputs, especially in
three partly inter-related areas. First, demand forecasting methodology
would be improved. Second, the main tool for resource allocation within the
sector, namely pricing, will be examined in detail. Finally, guidelines for
future investments, which reflect more closely the spatial and sectoral
priorities as expressed in the Fifth Plan outline, will be developed. These
guidelines will include a detailed 10-year strategy for the developemnt of
rural telephone service, more explicit criteria for the allocation of
priority among rural places, and specific criteria for the provision of
urban public telephones in low income areas.



- 19 -
57.        Least Cost Solution.  The technical means to achieve the FY82-85
telephone service development objectives are to a large extent determined by
the characteristics of the existing systems and decisions taken in
connection with the ongoing project. Withir these limics, the solutioni'
chosen on the basis of sound engineering and economic analyses are likely to
result in the lowest costs regarding both initial investment and total cost
over the life of the new facilities.  In particular, the adoption of
electronic digital technology for telephone switching and advanced
technology for other elements of the system should result in considerable
reduction of space requirements and installation and maintenance costs.
58.       Distribution of Benefits.  On the basis of current usage patterns
and the composition of a sample of outstanding applications, it is expected
that about 40% of the lines added under the program will be connected to
businesses, which will account for about 66% of new calls generated.
Including business use of residential telephones, almost 80% of all calls by
the new lines will be directly related to the production and distribution
activities of the economy. The proportion is likely to be even higher in
the provinces.
59.       Under the proposed project, there will be, in relative terms,
faster service development in the provinces than in Bangkok. In particular,
by the end of FY85, 80% or more of the forecast demand for telephone
connections would be met in Chiang Mai, Nakhon Ratchasima, Khon Kaen,
Songkla/Hat Yai and Chonburi, the five main provincial urban centers,
against 76% in the provinces overall and 61% in Bangkok. Public telephones
to be installed in about 330 rural tambons (villages and environs) will
extend service for the first time to about 3 million rural inhabitants,
increasing the proportion of the country's population living in places with
telephone service to 35% from 30% at the end of the ongoing Third Project.
On the basis of a preliminary TOT analysis of expected costs and revenues,
the provision of these rural facilities will involve some subsidy from the
financially more lucrative urban and interurban services.
60.       No funds will be required from the Government.  Rather, over the
period FY82-85, TOT is expected to make a large financial contribution to
Government of about $380 million equivalent ($115 million in customs duties
and about $265 million from taxes on TOT's profits).
61.       Return on Investment.  The internal financial rate of return on
the program, defined as the discount rate which equalizes the present value
of cost and revenue streams (at 1981 constant prices) attributable to the
program, is 26%.  This rate of return understates the real benefits to be
derived from the investment program, partly because the benefits stream used
in the calculation does not take full consideration of the indirect and
external benefits which are received by nonusers of the service. It also
does not include the significant consumer surplus which telephone users
receive. A portion of the consumer surplus has been estimated by
(a) tabulating over the program period, the prices in 1981 real terms for
which the existing subscribers and registered applicants have demonstrated a
willingness to pay; and (b) assuming that the future appplicants will also



- 20 -
be willing to pay the same real amount. On the basis of these assumptions,
the quantifiable estimate of the economic rate of return on the program
would be 43%.
Risks
62.      The principal risk is the possibility of delayed physical imple-
mentation due to unforeseen circumstances which could result in a consequent
delay in benefits. However, in telecommunications projects, which involve a
relatively large number of independent activities, delay in the completion o
a few works does not generally prevent the use of the newly created assets.
Furthermore, costs and benefits are often delayed in roughly the same degree
so that the impact on the rate of return may be insignificant. A sensitivity
analysis on the internal financial rate of return shows that a combination
of 10% higher capital costs and 10% lower revenues would result in a
reduction of the financial return from 26% to 18%. The project is expected
to have no adverse ecological effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Telephone
Organization of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom
of Thailand and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional
condition of effectiveness would be that (a) TOT has awarded contracts for
major equipment required for the implementation of the proposed project and
have contracted the firm of management consultants (para. 45), and (b) TOT
has increased its fees and charges and the Goverment has approved appropriate
measures so that TOT can be expected to generate funds internally as
covenanted, during the project period (para. 52).
64.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.We Clausen
President
by
Attachments
Ernest Stern
Date: April 19, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                     Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOC1AL INDICATORS DATA Sa__
THAILAND                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHIED AVEQ1TES
LANIJ AREA (THOUSAN4D SO. 31.)                                                          -  HOST RECENT ESTIHATE)
TL TAL           514. C                                 HOST RECENT           MlDDLE LICOME            MIDDLE INCOHE
AGRICULTURAL     178.1               1960  /b    t970 /b ESTIMATE Lb          ASLA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (357)                  100.0        210.0     590.0                1136.1                   1616.2
ENEHGY CUNSUMPTIUN PER CAPITA
:KilOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIIGLENT)       62.5       204.3      376.3                1150.6                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTIcs
POPULATIONF MlJ-YEAR (THCUSANDS) 27229.0      36499.0   45475.0
U914N POPULArToN (PEU(,N7 iF TOTAL) 12.5          13.2      14.2                  .U.8                     64.2
AOPULATION PRuJECTIONh
POPULATION 1N YEAR 2UOO (MILLIONS)                        68.2
STATIONARY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                         103.0
YEAR STAILONARY PUPULATION IS REACHED                   2070
eOPULATIUN DENSITY
PER sq.  FI.                       53.0         71.0      88.5                 373.1                     34.3
PER sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    210.3         247.5     250.0                2382.8                     94.5
POPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                          44.7         46.2      42.4                  39.6                     40.7
15-S4 YRS.                          52.6        50.8       54.5                  56.7                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          3.0       3.1                   3.5                      4.0
PUPULAIIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IToAL                               2.6          2.9       2.4                   2.3                      2.4
URBAN                               4.4          3.5       3.2                   3.8                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.0         39.5      30.9                  29.7                     31.4
CKUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.8         11.3       7.9                   7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPBRDUCTION RATE               3.2          2.9       2.1                   1.9                      2.3
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        202.9/c   761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           7.6      39.0                  44.1
EUL) AND NUT'RITION
INDEX UF FouD PRODULTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-U0O)           92.0        100.0     124.0                 123.7                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
RLQUIREMIENTS)                   96.0        103.0     105.0                 112.6                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         50.0      49.0                  62.5                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        10.0         15.0      14.0                  19.7                     34.0
CHILC  (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     15.6          9.6       5.9                   4.8                      7.6
hEALTH
LIFE EXPECIANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8          57.1      62.0                  64.0                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          6.0/d    68.0                  50.2                     70.9
ALCEbS IT SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULAIION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      22.0                  45.9                     65.7
URBAN                                ..         60.0      49.0                  68.0                     79.7
RURAL                                           10.0      12.0                  34.4                     43.9
ACCESS OU EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
fOTAL                                ..         i7.0      40.0                  53.4                     59.9
URBAN                                ..         65.0      58.0                  71.0                     75. 7
RURAL                                            8.0      36.0                  42.4                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           8003.8       8462.6    8154.1                4428.7                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4900.0       7058.4    3542.0                2229.7                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HUSPITAL BED
IOTAL                            1351.0/Le     897.8     814.2                 588.5                    471.2
URBAN                                ..        176.3     519.5                 579.6                    558.0
RURAL                                ..      13910.7    1268.5                1138.5
ADMISSlONS PEE HuSPITAL BED            ..         31.0      44.8                  36.7
hOUSING
AVERAGE bIZE 06 HuUSEHULD
TOTAL                               5. S55. 5.8            5.5
URBAN                               5.3/e        5.8       5.5
RURAL                               5.6/e        5.8       5.5
AVERAGE NUMB6E uF PERSUNS PER ROOM
TUTAL                                ..           ..       2.4
URBAN                                ..           ..       2.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       2.4
ACCESS TO ELLGIRICITY (PERCENT
oF DWELLINLS)
TOTAL                                ..         18.9
URBAb                                ..         86.1
SURAL                                ..          9.0



- 22 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
T'dAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATICS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        81.0       82.0                    99.8                    101.7
MALE                  88.0         85.0       85.0                  100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                79.0         77.0      78.0                    98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  13.0         17.0      28.0                    53.5                     35.3
MALE                  16.0         20.0       29.0                   58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                10.0         14.0      27.0                    48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    19.0           24.0       17.0                   21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0         22.0      28.0                    34.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                           20.0         16.0      27.0                   31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0         78.6      84.0                    86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          5.1       6.4                    12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        76.0      131.0                   174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.2          6.6      17.6                   50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         20.5        ..                   106.8                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       1.7                     4.3                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13958.0        17010.0   21547.7
F£MALE (PERCENT)                    48.3        47.3       46.5                    37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.7         79.9      76.6                    50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.4          6.0       8.7                   21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.3         46.6      47.4                    40.2                     31.8
MALE                                  52.7         49.3      50.9                    49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                                49.8        43.9       43.9                    31.1                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.1        1.0                    1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/f         23.8/g    14.0/h
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.97f        49.77j    42.27''
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/f          6./g      7.6/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/f         15.9/     19.1i/b
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USA PEK CAPITA)
URldAN                                ..          ..      159.0 /i               248.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..      106.0 7                 193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ,.           .      115.0                  249.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      110.0 /                234.3                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELDW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       15.0                    21.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       34.0                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithletic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Government program only;  /d 1964-65;  /e 1962;  /f 1962-63;  /g 1968;  /h Prelininary data for 1975-76;
doe to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional data
overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
/i   Estimates for 1977.
May, 1981



ANNEX 1
- 23 -                                                                                   Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes   ulteogh the dat  ar  draw  fr-  souce  generlly judged the s-tathrttiecd reliable, it should also he notd that they oaf to  he inear-
n      -tton .lbycc bparathe   teseof ohs lack of acedar-edi tetthlo    d co-ep-  -sd bediffoc-  .c...te - it co-e1-ti.g  hte dot.-   The dataore
chele, ...  .efol to d-sirth  c-der  of iogot de. to       - te t-de , sod churacecle  ot-nat  oj- dtfferenc-  benu-ro--i-hs
of  heau-en   co-try  (e-y  ion I-  lotte   urlt  u  tooc.       t"gopers'dleocetrh Afreotd toddle tact'' te ches h...                            u
soolo-uloarlsffeetsel. I  oha -ef--ne  erep d-s tOe  --g-ee  -r  rapulatuo  eetghesd ao              sioousfor soo  ltod h...ror te  thot  orly :,hr."
sejor      fth   otceeOetop ho  Ourst forta-                  nIao,lteth   oeeeo   ocrt  schog  he Iriceosdepeede  .t eh  ehlabtlleY of deto
Teet  -T toe    ufeeae                   I-pioe   ed ares too  -xad  aer.ur , -td roel  dielded iy chtee reepeceo- tucke  of h-ePitl1 teds
Aette-liual-    tsloc    f-o.clurl s  usd to-p--erlr or p-reotenly                                a-attble  ie ptlc~ ttd prloeh  getere_Iad ee-tinte-d ho-pitol a-de
forcrps  potue,  are   -d k-h-cs   -ade-   rh  lis fsll-s  1978 dole.                          tblaercnr.   oPiae rreotlhtopo,ootyerd
by ao Ies  tepyIIt fthltteeprdigprctllyre-
GISP PtCR   IA  11     lPpt no,ies  -tuu"             tcurn   ohc  rceel                            dIdl corn.. er   o   t  ue.tRah.  hoapuhals, huo..tr, i-olude holtb
rulatedWby  etotsrhnnco  00  ocd  ac  Als-17d7  behe) ; 1960,                                    o  tdtoo I ee Peou   pertetly  -effed by a phyttoter Iton hy
1970. -td17  dec.                                                                                tedi-al. east-hr, cu-., shunts  etc_.) ohtct offer io- I_otco
dattee  -Id po.otds a ..itttad r-te  of tediool futilttl.P            tsh"u-
itiuGY ChfttUOoPTItN Phi CuPI~Ta-unvu1  osepoho- of.co             .e..o  OOt9   .101                 toel p_rpus_  urhue Ootphnl   Inclde Wills prhr_tpof/et-snha        . opitlo,~
-tdigl, pstolueearl .....        ,- gaodydr-,_ocl-aeoodgehrsle-                                   -tdru-1  1sptul-ua            errrshoPieeleetdt-diealst.d n--nily
e-ct) toi   loce  o   cIeuIa oPer -npine; 1960, 1970, sod 1979                                coe Sp.osta.lcedtsieeae-elddel ed enI..ta.
,ee.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adelsaio.. ore hoepil ted -  utl ..,eo   denuuoe o-    dtc-h-re-
f-a   opeh  dIvIded by ebe onb-e of beds.
fFOPUATION 019 VI1AL STATISTICS
Total Pup.lanio.. lId-Yee  (thoutads) - As of JulY 1; 1960, 1970. and 1179                   fOUtINGA
daea.                                                                 Coerces lOot of household frerauns cen hoacoholdl - total, urbue, ocT cocal-.S.  i-   f H .hld  P
_RtcotOr;llI  1970. -ed 1979 duca.ethoehd furhnttoto-                                                                             urote
Porluton  e fec  111- Ccre.e  epuathe uuicrlco  re  ass  00hue         he  ofperont1ercon h  al  orac,anden-a1  ecotsdoo-o.tnI
t-jolo    aascn  fnc  -o-clly --te  -tnyrIc  of th-e                                 .....s..-.voopud   ro
tog lIfe  esnopa   tt   cetOeui   otepe0 piaieee                                           hcpeohcrcuvterseofdel                      tal - tne,  lb,,o, sod  ,uteI -
sessf-rf-eelllcpr-e. .  h oobvtt-ne-s lsrl -ouing d-ltteie                                oflot-1.r-b-   -tdrurld-llivgsre-p-ent-ly.
took~. eooey hethe  .eahevd  otfebeooeotenfsof to-eaiep                                  TDUCATION
and ferilit, treds foe pro'eetto  papsa                                                     diosied terojl-eo   F-ti
Snnoaeorlco       t   onto_oep.poplanotthrenot  enoon  since                                   fetory  hobol - och  ol  eod f                  rs  tonl, eel  otO foul
sate  eo.eeuc. tto  s athiuved only oiler  -etitiy rais  der.-n noticr   -choof-og  ppahttec  -ovoly                                    lde- etildre ie-       61
ofooerploe  Itslf e-uoly.  ftennocypy.o.o t                       ies.ass                      coterhee  ith -it--el ed.oati- enoiseuy  xee   00prcn
-aiti-d on the teats of the ..roI_oned cha-a--Oie  of the  -orulatotator  enspopls se  telos on ebse nit affilil  -otoo  ego.
It the peon 2001, av  the rot  of declus of  -turcley note. no replet                -       leod-yn sohol -  -ail, tale and f-1. - Cocpa-dusatno-;s.....dany
_.ee fo_el.                                                                                     -doalo9i-e  at lo.. four peac  of approve.d prisary O                  eit
tear snot ...on nLocoou ont  nor  - The peer than  -nsbooy nonoltta                               proides  ene-l ,  __oit_Il,or -hob- trtinfg I-trot-  ll, for puntS
sl-eh.,b t       -nrahed.                                                                      ....natlyofh12n-l7 fea-  of g.;  --repuedeteorea-                     eeal
Fec 09k.   - id-y-o  pe;ul-rt-  n- eqoor  khluo... -(100 he--ra) ofVfoe-toe ..                              oroll11sn.  frecee  of Hstede) -  otneol  n-tiei-io
tnlue;1f,117  an_d 1979 dat.-                                                         tluse cit,odste,ootrpogae  hroeseldpd-
op;11,1970 -ed 1979 done.                                                              Yet-ersnnl      nao  sod  "Se ede-ua   tdtic strolled  In
0 psere, endt-eic-d f6It        t feeesdovne p-r-onge- ofnd-rey .            p.-.....s_npedlnetIal.. ,
I,"tot  1967, 1970, ecd 1979 d-n.                                                               AMelt itier_oreo   jnrncsnnf - Lit-tsnedu1ts  leble tored tod enntef
Puu _ntt  rri tot  fys-c-t  - tota  -  -.1oe  got  rite  of tota  old-osaer--tes   of total id.le popala~iio  seed 15 pest  sod   cr
fair n            Ia.cos  o  1910-hI, 1960107, and 1970-7 9.
.Porotatey  _rth lone   er-e-e  -_-rbn - A ...al gS-ti rae f urban gpup-                     COffNSUMPTION
hatio.i for 1950-if, 1960-70, ie   ttO.                                                       esca  cane feet ebh..apedteoatn -   e 5rcesoptsetr
hedefirh lute  ' fyeh-a-d) - o-1oi-be   tenths Per thb..e.d of etu-py-                        ear  scoelo  iee  f,o  tge  enon; excld-set--roe,beneeed
populetio; 1960, 1970, itO  979 usn.                                                             ilitsrye-hciel-
OnadaIsan  lon  frstton odl- A-oao  deenhe pen ch-o-ds of etd-ye-d idj  R-i-rer  leer tbossd  orlstio     - Alltypes of --ceoer  foe  -idi
nson;16,19710, sod 1979 dies.                                                         br-i tenIngsnipbin  erthrusod oIflpopohtiot; e-otdeein
Crss -erouc -u se- Aterof  oute- of datghoteneeta-   will been to                         Iicece   -osees  touerts d te yeir _he  neesroi-c of r-dno
her noenl _ep-od-outle  psrd if she.eaie  presen  eg-spetfto  fe-acne weit effort; dais for eIe "                                       ear  sap to  beoaen--belocei
tolltynsnts, a..ally fle-yea   trges  -edief In 1960, 1970, -d 1979_1,11, cs                            sne   bolished itocesfog
PaIThoi-Aoc-nus-  nnalIcoeds I - annua  nuber ofeopref lestesfe  hnodeuLttl-fnneve  for iv rai
of boreb---trl diore and- ena.Pio-s of cattox..  fssly plattIn"g Prg. x                         general publif  pen thousanEd  .Pnulaien;   r.de  aniesd TV ratlees
Pomtlv PhoIng - Ise-  loeee-  of  -ientd e              -x    - Pe..seeg  of taried               i.eoore -ed et year  hbe" rns               a of UTV sets co  it .fe._
wrex of othild-b-inlg age (15-A4 near) ato use bi-en-nt-Io d-vic  to  oteeee  lt to   fee  eh.....d -oruloeloe   - Ibhe- the  -rreg                                      i ol-
all  --dis  oset Io sas  See grop.                                                             eotto  of idnn  gece   ntrs    vprr' d.ftoed  speriodicol
ff01 AND1 tlITIION                                                                                  fo b"di"ifnapieorect fou  tisetek'
Indee of Pond Pnodahtto  tee  cents lltl-1-11:09~ -_Todeofpnepi  stoLeaei                               nna_    tinac  per  anl ne-erfcdbsretee  of
prdcio    fal foodcovtes.P_oducl   scade  sed .md feed an                               tioktf  sold d-riog the fear, IncludIng edtaioss en deitel    ioe_
is en o-1sd-r neo  basue.  C-ainolteoevse O~rj-ay goofs It. g. sug-r.o.e                       md  obile  -ntis
bettd of sogeeshiohs-sedibleo-do...ttitno irtsen   h-g. coffee sod
tittno  toeag  prod--cee       -nieegbts; 1961-65, 1971, itd 1979 dens,                     fTa~l Lotte Pee'  fe.....s.odef-E .o...tni.ly  toies pe-coec  inoladiee
- n  ootaevnp  f  s'nEICereto  rxiset) -p-xynd Ten                                       armd feere txd unseployad.boo eo diaiie  hooeees-            eud- t,se
Pen daf.  doeiloble  -opltea c-peledceneOodno  iop-tns less                                  nu  _op-bole; 1960, 1971 an 979 det.-
sa .r.,.d.h.ge..    nok   ten ePpylisaes -lode -etIolfed, seeds                    PenIs fe-er..n) - Petal  later feec  sepr_etags of 1tre labrfre
ton_ t sousd t  od  roesn, d I.s.e. te dianibtooio.  eAur-                                 bRicolet-  lep--to  - Lot  fxb-         nfo e ffare hy, -onio  sed
osno  uses eatl ted ly PAP h..ud ne phyetologi-li  -d...    fur  -nssa  Ict                 thn   cos          aeo   aa  lbh- taste; 16,1970 and li"7 io
viy nod htelebcoest. d_eogtveoanth -eper--r, body stbe   g                                  UIodsix fees...et I- Labor fen-  te oteteg,roa          sieaticang
and  ee  teenbahoo  f.p.po.etto,ae   lse   If per'e"e for noe t                         sod eleeiciny. eater ad go -as       pee g  of 1e1 hihee f-er; 19fd,
to-ead lte; 1961-6, 1971, e IS 197  done.                                                     1970  e 99de
fP_ caninesri   fpoen  gearrdn    P-uein  -ox-e  of pee -epln                                 Pe_nirisanox  on  (re-Sxn  - e_mil,           mol.cd; fsnle- P-rttiystip
-e  soerhy of food Per day.  tee eupply of food te dofloed is abov.-         .  -settvitytteee                     _eetd se co-el, ah,~  ae  eslsleo  tec
-ute=xe  -o ol  coen -s soblisbd hr lOlA proide for  -int,e                                   -ecoee   fttl   oesd femlepfuso    _foh1ogs  ep_otetin;
ulteceo1       0  re  of etel prtix yen day ovd 20 geoc  of otica  a-d                        1960, 197f, cvi 1979 den.-  fTh. eser  hoe  an. fILUe peentripeniot rtes.
plenosoof ehiob 13 grta. should he "acinu   ortex    Thse steed-                     .e..ot           ..ge- .esrot-e  of eke  .ponutet-, ood lon  ties t-td.A
.ti-m f             -eoiao   average fvrebhseold, proposd in fAf in the Tintd              ioE-sic lenendenv-et  - lontoNo  poulcn  uxd- 15 'n   1sdoe
World Pond toeve; 1961 -65, 1970 end 1977 date..no  ihe   - tol Ib- forc.
fer  anIn  ornsix   nnf  tro  uxisi -od rules - ProteIn -spyhyof fond de-
ninsd fin   emhesdplest   ncapndp  1961-t "1970  ed 1977 des                             INO   UITIBUtTTONt
4                     C~~~~~hIld fasts 1-u) Hor-litf fat  (nee tho-ssdI - A-1o deahs Per tho.....d it                 fee-e.n.o  of frerees Ieco     (bhun  Ie ciat od bond>  -oceted b, snorte
sgegnup. -t, are_ actodes    ntag    eo;onnneseigo                                           -5 -sr-en,rnbh-t20 pa-et, poors   20   --rsv,eed p-one     40 pernee
erles does derIved  fre  I   tetles; 1960, 1970 end 1979 dote,of he..sebhlds.
Life faEpnao a.. y    eet" (rets    A ..ng  roe  of ner   f lIfe nsiniog                        The fuiltne   esi-teets  are tern           _ .prnex  .es...e  of p--sey isesi,
ci ti_h; 196. 1971 end 19,9 dine.                                                               sd  Ibedbe        - tensxdtiooidrt i tcule
a  tssn  Sfete fdne  aoo-   o 'P  nlet.t-..sitbei  andrural - gu-                             eunfosh    dq edies plea essenial enfood reqoiree-t. is not
her  f people (saral, -rba, so      Iao) etetres_ oa_ieore_  ft safe"dl
-- ..pply (1-1.d..   I . .  .  .t,,:.tI.bttanteend Relative Pov-ti lone  Level109  retS s-ita) - -b-x end  -url1
sae   uh as then feu  peonacte  hoeblse,apig,cd stesysel) a                                       -or l   tissiv  poxerey il-eo  lne  ta at-third of ...e-oge   -eepxi
peotae o..  .the tr repetveppua..e.                 a o2 eboo     h-.sabi                      peysess  in-s  of the or_sny   Tlex levelis. desixed tea  th              -1ra
is eon honeen syted edtepeoponninane fern  f theb da                                 -1nteething thef-ohe''.
--mid-dsese  teede.                                               .                           ti-.   .Plti.Z
droseotornaOtsosl  eeoei  f  osletat-  ol.etos  ahd eseld -.                                                    f                   t
lee lisesliattoos.                                                                                                                 se~~~~~~~~~~~~b.  .1) 1911 "...t
dhvs q.leia featd sadine-plb schoo so u-tocefn lexel,f-i. t.
ferietus ee  oncse  seeP  -popalat.iocdiidedb .by fusberiof  earete te
-is  aid        .. tse is gedmnaonas - psc_ioe  torsds  sod seib at-     trf



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PoDulation         46,50  (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP per Capiita   US$67n (1960)
TEAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million 0TSS at              Average annual increase (5)                        Share of GDP at market prices (5)
current prices)                  (at constant prices)                                   (at current prices)
Indicator                        1980 /a        1960-7'   1970-75  lq75-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960               1970          1975         1980/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic Product         32,865            8.4       6.3       7.7         6.8         7.3      100.0         100.0        100.0         100.0
Agriculture                   8,572            5.5       5.3       3.5         4.2         3.8       39.8          28.3         31.5          26.2
Industry                      7,499           11.5       7.8      11.7        8.6          9.0       18.7          25.3         24.8          27.5
Services                     13,326            9.0       7.1       7.8         7.S         8.3       41.5          46.4         43.7          46.3
Consumption                    25,716            7.3       7.0       7.7         4.9         6.2       85.7          78.7          79.3         77.6
Gross investment                9,166           15.8       3.8        8.9        7.0         6.7       15.7          26.2          25.4         27.9
Exports of GNFS                 8,211           10.5       3.6      14.1         9.9         9.1       17.4          16.7          19.1         25.0
Imports of GNFS                10,228           13.9       3.7      10.5         4.9         5.6       18.9          21.5          23.7         31.1
Gross national savings          6,095           13.7       4.1        6.8        9.9         8.4       14.1          21.5          20.7         20.7
Composition of merchandise trade (5)
(at current prices)
1060   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  1990/b
EXTERNAL TRADO
Merchandise exDorts             6,657            5.5       9.0       14.7       10.2         9.3    100.0  1oo.n  loo.0n  10.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                       3,785            4.2       6.6      10.6         6.1         5.0      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.6    37.4
Manufactures                  2,872           29.2      20.9      25.0        14.6        12.7       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.4    62.6
Merchandise imports             9,987           11.5       3.3       10.1        5.2         6.0    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                            303            4.3      -2.7      11.2         5.0         6.0       9.6     5.4    4.4    3.4        3.2      3.1
Petroleum                     2,824           11.8       5.0       8.6       -1.0          3.4      10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    26.9    26.5
Machinery & equipment         2,110           16.1       5.9       4.4         7.6         7.0      25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    25.2    25.4
Others                        3,750           10.1       1.0      16.7         7.8         7.0      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    44.7    45.0
1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                          100.0      103.3      112.1       121.8      135.0      154.0
Exchange rate                                          20.4       20.4       20.4        20.3       20.3       20.5
Export price index                                    100.0       97.3       99.4       107.4      128.3      151.0
Import price index                                    100.0      105.5      113.4       122.3      141.4      176.0
Terms of trade index                                  100.0       92.2       87.6        87.8       90.8       86.0
As % of GOP
1960           1970            1975            1980/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                        13.6            13.6            13.2           14.5
Current expenditures                                    10.6            12.6            11.7            14.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                              +3.0            +1.2            +1.5           +0.4
Capital expenditure                                      4.3             5.8            3.4             3.9
Foreign financing                                        0.2             0.05            0.06            0.2
1960-70         1970-75          1975-60          1980-85/b           1985-90/b
OThER INDICATORS
CNP growth rate (2)                            8.4              6.2              6.9              6.7                7.5
GNCP per capita growth rate (I)                5.2    ,         3.4              4.4              4.4                5.4
ICOR                                           2.8              4.0              3.4              4.1                3.8
Yarginal savings rate                          0.29             0.23             0.21             0.34               0.3
Import elasticity                              1.7              0.6              1.3              0.64               0.77
/a  Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
December 14, 1981



Page 5 of 5
Population      : 46,500 (mlid-1980, thousands)                                          - 25 -
GNP per Capita:  US$670 (1980)
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMFNTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                                            Projected
Indicator                          1970    1q75    1976       1977    1978    1979   1981/d   1981         1992    1983    1984    1995    1986    1987    1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor
services                                  1,109   2,796   3,490   4,029   4,976   6,494   8,211   9,061  10,562  12,783  15,236  18,251  21,794  25,884  51,414
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.               686   2,178   2,959   3,456   4,041   5,233   6,657   7,333   8,573  10,397  12,491  14,963  17,832  21,221  42,574
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                                -1,430  -3,487  -3,892  -5,066  -5,9n5  -8,170 -10,22R -11,022 -12,319 -14,384 -16,833 -19,706 -23,115 -27,186 -52,347
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.           -1,148  -2,839  -3,146  -4,244  -4,909  -6,822  -8,987  -9,704 -10,928 -12,909 -15,048 -17,679 -20,808 -24,557 -47,913
Net factor income fr.. abroad                  23        4      -63      -97    -261    -477        -703    -740    -933  -1,152  -1,435  -1,773  -2,183  -2,646  -5,122
Net transfers                                  49       81       24       40       41        61      353      342      347      373      402      433      467      505      697
Current account balance                      -250    -606    -441  -1,094  -1,149  -2,092  -2,367  -2,359  -2,343  -2,380  -2,630  -2,795  -3,037  -3,443  -5,358
'rivate  i.t-  Investment                      43       86       80      10        51       53       55       60       65       70       75       80       90      100      140
MLT loaos (net)                                32      111      198      205      644       995   z,093    1,732   1,916   2,273   2,515   3,005   3,238    3,412    4,919
'Official                                     21       93      109      212      285      439      460      639      808      919      955   1,016    1,081    1,169    1,598
Private Ia                                   10       19       89       -7      360      557   1,633    1,093   1,108   1,354   1,560   1,989   2,157   2,243   3,321
Other capital /b                               93      356      242      792      490   1,036        223      867      762      4.37     440      160      159      381      799
Change in reserves                             82       52      -79        -9     -36         8        -      300      400      400      400      450      450      450      500
International reserves                        906   2,007   2,113   2,208   2,558   3,102   3,026   3,526   3,926   4,326   4,726   5,176   5,626   6,076   8,076
Reserves as months Imports                      A        7         7        5        5        5        4        4        4        4        3        3        3        3         2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbhrsements
Concessional loans                           11       43       52       80      153      233      222      311      410      475       466      488      518      558      960
OAC                                        11       40       45       53       84      167      158      268      340       377     359       37F      405      429      589
IDA                                         -        3        7        9        5        4        4        9       14        18       19       15       10        5        0
Other                                       -        -        -       18       68       62       60       34       55       80        88       94      103      112      371
Nonconcessional loans                       198      493      556      558   1,160   1,792   2,395   1,930   2,000   2,603   3,269   3,986   4,563   5,229   8,373
Official exoort credits                     7        -        -       54       44      127      169      150      138       86       89        88       95      113      195
IBRD                                       19       41       43       65      103      139      143      250      346      442      524      584      645      718       879
Other multilateral                          2       37       46       33       46       36       93       77      107      149       186     225       265      302      470
Private publicly guaranteed                17       29      109       57      396      691      712      597      455      435      462      449      440       500      500
Private nonguarauteed                     143      396      367      349      571      799   1,288       856      954   1,581   2,008   2,640   3,118   3,596   6,329
Total gross disb:srsnments                  199      536      609      638   1,313   2,025   2,617   2,241   2,410   3,168   3,735   4,474   5,061   5,787   9,333
External Debt (fixed-term)
Public debt outstanding i
disbursed                                   328      622      828   1,094   1,816   2,819   4,063   4,926   6,072   7,216   8,288   9,250  10,425  11,599    n.a.
Official                                  291      549      666      917   1,270   1,638   2,098   2,737   3,545   4,464   5,419   6,435   7,515   8,685  14,440
Private                                    37       68      156      151      520   1,064   1,694   2,189   2,527   2,752   2,869   2,815   2,910   2,914    n.s.
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding and disbursed                 382      730      785      880      939   1,243   1,922   2,845   3,615   4,743   6,187   8,229  10,292  12,530    n.s.
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                                 710   1,352   1,613   1,974   2,755   4,062   5,985   7,771   9,487  11,959  14,475  17,479  20,717  24,129  41,571
Lndisbursed debt                            118      666      840   1,401   1,902   2,358   3,204   3,066   3,386   3,734   4,087   4,514   5,001   5,459   7,710
Debt Service
Total service payments                      162      378      399      443      708      954   1,250   1,149    1:325   1,913   2,480   3,013   3,733   4,647   8,614
interest                                   16       35       44      126      198      325      461      640      831   1,019   1,260   1,544   1,890   2,272   4,200
Payments as % exports of goods and         14.6    13.5    11.4    11.0    14.2    14.7    15.2    12.7    12.5    15.0    16.3    16.5                 17.1    17.9    16.8
nomfactor services
Average interest rate on new loans
(%) /c                                        6.9      7.5      7.8      7.0      6.7      7.3    11.3    10.5    10.7    11.3    11.6    11.9    12.0    12.3    12.4
Official                                    6.3      7.4      7.7      6.2      5.3      5.3         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Private                                     6.0      8.5      R.1      8.2      8.8      9.6         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Average maturity of new loans
(Years) Ic                                   18.9    22.9    17.4    14.8    17.3    17.1    14.1    15.6    15.8    14.8    14.2    13.7    13.5    13.1    12.8
Offictial                                  19.4    24.2    20.7    19.3    22.3    22.6              -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Private                                    11.2      7.0      7.3      8.3      9.4    10.6          -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Bank Group Exposure (l)
IBD DOD/total DOD                         22.6    20.0    18.5    17.5    15.8    13.7    11.3
IBRD disbursenents/total gross
disbursenents                             9.5      7.7      7.1    10.2       7.8      6.9      5.5
IBRD debt service/total debt
service                                  11.1      8.5      9.0     10.0      7.8      7.0      6.3
IDA DOD/total DOD                             -      0.3      0.7      1.0      0.9      0.7      0.5
IDA disburse=ents/total gross
disburseenats                               -      0.9      1.1      1.4      0.4      0.2      0.2
IDA debt serviceltntal debt
service                                     -      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
As t of debt outstanding
at end of 1979
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                                  28.4
Principal dse within 10 Years                                                                 61.3
Interest structc,re of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                 4.6
/a  Due to change in classification, projected data for "private MLT isans" include some of the category "other capital".
77  "Other capital" includes net one of IMF funds and net flow of short-term  capital.
77 Historical data does not include nonguaranteed private debt.
74 Prelimnnary.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty three loans and three credits fully disbursed                 639.20  31.74        -
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   39.51
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    3.01
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    0.54
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -    4.83
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -    8.29
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    0.03
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -    3.10
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   18.53
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -    6.90
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population         -   33.10/a 16.00
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways      110.00        -   26.03
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -    4.79
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    6.03
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   80.75
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   14.21
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban Trans.  16.00         -   12.67
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -    9.10
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   43.79
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          -   35.00   29.00
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture        -   25.00   21.23
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Extension 40.00         -   34.13
1770   1980   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   42.17
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                  Natural Gas
Thailand                               Pipeline   107.00/b       -   10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    80.00         -   73.59
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Credit    19.00         -   12.41



-27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power               72.00    -          45.08
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                    Water Supply        40.00    -          39.71
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing              29.00    -         28.46
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity          Rural Elec-
Authority                      trification       75.00    -          72.57
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00    -           52.62
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports                47.00    -         47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research         30.00    -         29.95
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Potash Engineering  8.90    -            7.73
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.
of Thailand                  Industry            30.00    -          10.18
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power              100.00    -         100.00
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation           57.00    -         56.50
2035      1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Provincial Roads   35.00    -           34.27
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand Ic          Tree crops          142.00    -        142.00
2097     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c          Structural
adjustment       150.00    -        150.00
Total                                                        2,557.90  124.84  1,337.26
of which has been repaid                                     279.36    2.85
Total now outstanding                                        2,278.54  121.99
Amount sold /d                        68.63
of which has been repaid           50.88                      17.75
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,968.78  121.99
Total undisbursed                                            1,271.03   66.23
/a  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
/b  Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



-28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                  0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.39        0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                        -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                 2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00        -      2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers            4.85    0.34        5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials           63.00    4.00       67.00
1979   Thai Orient-Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                  -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                             100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           65.71    2.71       68.42
Net held by the Corporation                          35.27    6.90      42.17
Total undisbursed                                    25.00    -         25.00



- 29 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1982)
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the project's success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, contracting and
budgeting. IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an
effort to help resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is almost complete. Rehabilitation and on-
farm development works for Part A of the project on about 13,000 ha were
completed in 1981 bringing the total area developed to 48,000 ha, compared
to 51,000 in the appraisal schedule. Under Part B, rehabilitation works
are progressing satisfactorily. Under Part C, 65 km of service roads are
being constructed. All physical works are expected to be completed in 1982
in accordance with the appraisal schedule. Under Part D, a feasibility
study for about 175,000 ha in the Stage II area of Maeklong was completed in
March 1980 and a study for a possible Third Stage Chao Phya Irrigation
Improvement Project was completed in December 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



-30 -                   ANNEX II
page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now proceeding smoothly. Construction of main and secondary
canals is progressing satisfactorily but on-farm works are well behind
schedule. Two new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project
area, and work on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in the
appointment of consultants. Satisfactory progress is now being made in
procuring equipment and vehicles. Canal rehabilitation work is progressing
satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to delays in
design work.
Loan No. 2022-TH Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointed in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been completed for 10,000 ha, and 8 km of main and lateral canals have
been constructed. A contract for construction of about 6.0 km of main and
lateral canals is due to be awarded in 1982. Good progress is being made
in developing a Plan of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation
Department.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of Februarl 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction of almost 600 km of village access roads is complete
and is under way on the remaining 700 km. The road maintenance program is
being carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment procured under the project. The village water supply component
has provided 2,600 freshwater wells. The agricultural extension component
was completed in 1978 and subsumed into the National Extension Project (Loan
1393). The upland crops component is being satisfactorily completed and
research work is being continued by the National Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 1922). The village electrification component has been
completed with electrification of about 475 villages. The land settlement
component is essentially complete; cash incomes of pilot cooperating farmers
were roughly doubled in the project period, and settlement cooperative
placed on a sound footing.



-31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project continues to make fairly good progress particularly
with legume seed production, artificial insemination and private pasture
development. However, disbursement remains behind schedule and the original
loan closing date of June 30, 1981 was extended by 12 months to June 30,
1982. The Department of Livestock Development is developing plans for
transferring project activities into the work programs of the regular divi-
sions of the Department, and these transfers should be completed before
June 30, 1982 as part of a departmental reorganization plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. The replanting rate over
the project period has been slower than that envisioned at appraisal, but for
1981 about 65,000 ha were replanted - 30% above the target of 50,000 ha.
Management and the general level of staff efficiency at the Office of the
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund is satisfactory. Bank disbursements for the
project are expected to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Delays in staff recruitment experienced in the early days of the
project have now been overcome and the "T and V" system is operating
reasonably satisfactorily. Vehicles, including motorbikes for village-level
extension workers, remain in short supply. Shortages of audio-visual aids
and counterpart funds for day-to-day operations are also adversely affecting
progress.  Subject matter specialist training is being given priority atten-
tion. Civil works construction is nearing completion and disbursement has
improved considerably in recent months.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date:  December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a reasonable start in seven
provinces and disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.  Subject
matter specialist training is being given priority attention, as also is the
relevance of the information being disseminated to farmers through the "T and
V" system.



- 32 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the project are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) ongoing term
lending in the North and Northeast, to be financed under the project, is
progressing well. Implementation of works under the specified lending
component, however, has been slow. The most critical factor affecting the
financial viability of BAAC is the interest rate levels for agriculture.
Satisfactory progress has been made by the Cooperative Promotion Department
and the Cooperative Auditing Department in their training activities and in
the construction of regional and provincial staff housing.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective in March 1981, but a budget deficiency
in the first six months, which coincided with the last six months of the
Government fiscal year, seriously affected project implementation, which was
negligible, although much useful preliminary planning was accomplished. The
recent approval of a project budget for FY82 and the pending approval by
Cabinet of the reorganization plan for the Department of Agriculture should
enable implementation to proceed satisfactorily in the latter part of FY82
after allowing for a delay of about nine months from the appraisal report
schedule.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 million Loan of
January 29, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed by the original Closing Date. All civil work contracts have
been awarded and nearly completed. Equipment and furniture is under
procurement. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training
programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the
Ministry of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Acquisitions of
sites and design work has been completed. Construction of workshops
included in phase one has been completed, and equipment contracts have been



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
awarded. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively.  Project staff has been appointed or designated.  Curricula
are being developed. Technical assistance agencies have been contracted and
staff training programs are being conducted as scheduled. The studies under
the project are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date:  July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Under new management, the project is moving ahead smoothly and
rapidly, and disbursements have improved considerably over the past year.
Project implementation is now running, on the average, about 12 months
behind the appraisal schedule. Six of the ten national level training
facilities have been completed. Of the 430 rural health facilities, 374
have been completed, 33 are under construction and 23 had to be deleted.
The final round of procurement of equipment and furniture is currently
underway. Most training, information/education/communication, and
population-related research and evaluation activities have been completed on
schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition Activity has been successfully
launched and Government is about to approve the use of most of the remaining
funds for Innovative Activities for testing new ideas in continuing
education and the role of mass communication in health education are about
to be approved by the Government.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
because of difficulties encountered with the largest contract. The National
Housing Authority (NHA) has terminated the existing contract and steps are
underway to hire a new contractor to complete the work. Good progress,
however, has been made on the various policy concepts on which the project
is based, and NHPAs financial management has been strengthened through
technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
There has been a significant improvement in all aspects of the
project. While no action seems probable on area road pricing, progress has
been made in implementation of the bus lane system, parking
restrictions/charges, experimentation of staggered work hour system and
noise abatement. Construction is now underway on several traffic
improvement schemes. Since November 1981, contracts worth $6.3 million have
been awarded; further contracts for $10.3 million equivalent are to be
awarded in the next 3-6 months.



-34 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
This project expands the National Housing Authority (NHA) programs
initiated in Bangkok under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum
Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH) and extends the sites and services
program to five regional cities.  Design and procurement are proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction has commenced in Bangkok and the regional
cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date: January 4, 1982;
Closing Date: April 3, 1986
Engineering consultants were appointed in January 1982, about one
year later than originally expected due to the Borrower's inexperience in
hiring outside consultants. A UNDP-financed adviser has been appointed
to assist the borrower in these and related matters.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project has been completed on schedule. The three units of
turbine generators are operating satisfactorily. Good progress is being
made under the transmission line and substation components associated with
the project.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 3,480 villages, out of which 2,100
villages have already been electrified. The load promotion program started
in April 1981. Disbursements have accelerated and are very close to initial
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is about two months behind schedule because of poor
soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field works are now
proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up
with the original schedule. The first unit is targeted for commissioning in
July 1983, as scheduled.



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is about one year behind schedule because of unexpect-
edly poor rock foundation, but works are now underway satisfactorily.
Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Construction of the
resettlement program started at all five sites.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Construction started in 262 villages for the first nine provinces.
Seventeen villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2000-TH Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: October 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Bids for the diversion tunnel will be issued in July 1982, and
main civil works in May 1983 for the Chiew Larn Hydroelectric component of
the project.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date:  May 27, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Good progress was made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule. The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works should be completed by mid-1982.
The project is being completed on schedule and below the original cost
estimate.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Eftective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Procurement of equipment is proceeding satisfactorily. However,
the borrower, in its last progress report dated January 1982, indicated
little progress in civil works.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is almost fully disbursed. Only $29,000 remain against
an outstanding letter of credit.



- 3: -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Eftective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
The project is proceeding well. By the end of March 31, 1982, an
amount of $23.2 million has been committed and $19.8 million disbursed,
considerably faster than originally estimated.
Loan No. 1947-TH Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of
March 4, 1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981:
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan became effective on December 29, 1981 and is proceeding
well.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All construction contracts have been awarded and work is over 80%
completed. However, for three of the roads the bidding and awards were
delayed about 10 months to synchronize with bidding and award of contracts in
March 1979 on a link road financed wholly by the Government. Completion of
the project may thus be delayed about twelve months. The maintenance equip-
ment has been procured and with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with the road maintenance program is improving. The studies are
nearing completion. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) has been completed and is underway on
roads for future projects.
Loan No. 2035-TH Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: December 1, 1981;
Closing Date December 31, 1985
Contracts have been awarded on 19 roads, and are expected to be
awarded shortly on the remaining four. Proposals have been obtained for a
Transport Study.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Mainly due to slow progress in procurement of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule. Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
US$2.9 million remains unallocated. Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and an extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1983 is being
considered. Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability
of passenger and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial
position of SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff
increases for passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because
of a subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date:  December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The construction contract for improvements to the Chao Phraya
River has been awarded and the contractor is in the process of mobilizing.
Consultants have been appointed for design and construction supervision of
the various project components and work is underway. Acquisition of land for
port sites is still incomplete.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of project components concerned with the Port of
Bangkok are progressing satisfactorily with construction work underway and
selection of consultants to provide technical assistance to the Port
Authority of Thailand in process. Work at the Port of Sattahip is temporarily
in abeyance pending completion of the Master Plan Report now being prepared
by consultants financed through bilateral aid (Australia). The appointment of
consultants for the design of the Bang Su Container Freight Terminal has been
long delayed. With Bank concurrence, consultants were selected and contract
negotiations completed by the State Railway of Thailand but approval from
higher authority is not yet forthcoming, causing serious delays in the
implementation of this project component.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, with TOT awarding contracts for most of
the Bank financed items. The financial condition of the borrower continues to
be satisfactory.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Loan has not yet been declared effective.



-38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare            Ten months
the project                                : (January-October 1979)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project             : TOT
(c)  First presentation to the Bank                : November 1979
(d)  Date of Departure of the Appraisal Mission: October 9, 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations                    : April 2, 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                 : November 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) TOT to employ a firm of management consultants satisfactory
to the Bank to review internal institutional capabilities in
operation, management, staffing and training, suggest required
changes and assist in implementing changes (para. 39);
(b) TOT to employ individual experts satisfactory to the Bank to
assist TOT in improving pricing and investment policies,
demand forecasting abilities and carrying out a study of
TOT's tariff structure and levels (para. 40);
(c)  TOT to review certain aspects of the application and
administration of the bond system and implement changes satis-
factory to the Bank by March 31, 1983 (para. 49);
(d) TOT to take all such measures necessary to self-finance at least
20% of investments during any one year of the FY82-85
period, at least 25% for the whole period and at least 35% in FY86
(para. 52); and



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) By June 30, 1983 and annually thereafter, TOT to review and
revise its assets revaluation procedure so as to establish the
value of its fixed assets according to methods satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 54).
Conditions of Effectiveness -
(a) TOT to have award contracts for major equipment items and to the
selected firm of management consultants (paras. 45 and 63).
(b) TOT to have increased its fees and charges and the Government
to have approved appropriate measures so that TOT can be expected
to generate funds internally as covenanted during the project
period (paras. 52 and 63).



- N >                                                                                                                                                                X                   K



5..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
BURMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '<                                                                                                /$F                           -
4C-                                                         A~~.4                                                - 
BURMA~~~~~~~~~~~T\                                                                                                                         A A
4,                          O   .
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00)-                                                            4.444'   444                          A~~~~~~~~~R-
fin,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~444
U  -  ,         ,                      K~~~~~I' T
4,,                     4 T                            44T44
40              04,4~~.THNI    ES.                                                           I SITVS - AN3L>
CI~Llz S"""  _ OV.T
2-4.4 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ CBESl~llll A                      C
TI      FR 
4?,'4  .444,'  4/4                           1~~~~~0                 4      6     a     0
98.~ ~                                                                                                                                                               -AMLYSA ll~i4 



