Document of                                  5     P
The World Bank                                             A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3572-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $279.0 MILLION
To THE
RF.PUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
THIRTEENTH POWER PROJECT
May 11, 1983
N Tis document hals a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1           =  Rp 970
Rp 10         =  US$0.103
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,030
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton            =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)             =  0.0063 barrels
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)         =  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere       =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere       =  1,000 volt-ampere (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)         =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)  =  1 million kilowatt hours (kWH)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN    -   The National Energy Board
BOC        -   Board of Consultants
CDC        -   The Commonwealth Development Corporation of the United
Kingdom
DGEP       -   Directorate-General of Electric Power, Ministry of Mines
and Energy
GOI        -   Government of Indonesia
LNG        -   Liquified Natural Gas
LRMC        -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MME         -   Ministry of Mines and Energy
Newjec     -   New Japan Consulting Engineers
PLN        -   National Electricity Authority
REPELITA   -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRTEENTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:        Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the National
Electricity Authority
.Amount:             $279.0 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee)
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) to PLN for 20 years
including a grace period of 5 years; the onlending rate
will be equivalent to the variable interest rate charged
on the Bank loan plus a quarter percent for administrative
charges. The GOI will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project             The project will provide peak hydroelectric generating
Description:      capacity to complement the steady growth of base-load
coal-fired thermal generating capacity on the Java grid
from 1984 onwards. The project comprises:
(a) construction of a storage dam, 125 m high, at Cirata
on the Citarum river; a 1 km water conductor system
comprising tunnels, surgetanks, and penstock
tunnels; and a 500 MW power station (with four
generating sets each rated at 125 MW), with an
associated 500 kV step-up substation and a 25 km
transmission line to nearby Saguling;
(b)  construction machinery for a PLN task force; and
(c) support of the GOI's energy sector program by
providing technical assistance, studies and related
equipment.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The risks associated with the project are mainly those
inherent in all major hydroelectric projects but long
observation of river flows at the dam site, thorough
preparatory work, and the retention of a special board of
consultants to oversee design and construction, have
reduced these risks. In addition, appropriate physical
contingencies have been provided for unforseeable cond-
itions especially expected on this project due to: (a)
complications of geology in the Andesite quarry site;
and (b) potential landslides of volcanic breccia and mud-
stone zones.  A further risk is delay to the project as a
result of scarcity of local counterpart funding resulting
from the present recession. Tariff action by PLN to
increase its self-financing ratio will reduce its
dependence on GOI budgetary funding. The measure to
increase the disbursement percentage of the Bank loan
against the civil works during the first two years of the
project implementation will also help reduce this risk.
Estimated Costs:/l                                           Local  Foreign  Total
---($ million) --
Site preparation and environmental
related work                          107.6    1/.4   125.0
Civil and metal works                    49.1   139.6   188.7
Electrical and mechanical works           7.4    64.5    71.9
Engineering                               5.2    25.9    31.1
Administration                            5.5      -        5.5
Special construction machinery            0.1      1.0      1.1
Insurance                                 0.5      0.8      1.3
Total Base Cost                   175.4   249.2   424.6
Contingencies
Physical                               28.6    36.1    64.7
Price                                  63.4    36.0    99.4
Total Cost of Cirata Project   267.4   321.3   588.7
Energy sector support                    12.0    25.0    37.0
Total Project Cost                279.4   346.3   625.7
Interest During Construction
Bank loan                               1.4    72.6    74.0
Others                                 43.3    25.4    68.7
Front-end fee on the Bank loan            -        0.7      0.7
Total Financing Required          324.1   445.0   769.1
/1 Project costs are exempt from direct taxes and duties.



- iii -
Local Foreign Total
Financing Plan:                                                  ($ million) ---
Bank                                     -      279.0   279.0
Commonwealth Development Corporation 20.0         -      20.0
Export credits                           -       68.0    68.0
GOI/PLN /_                             304.1    98.0   402.1
324.1   445.0   769.1
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
------------- ($ million) ------------
Annual             39.0   55.0   82.0   57.0   28.0   18.0
Cumulative         39.0   94.0  176.0  233.0  261.0  279.0
Economic Rate of
Return:           14%
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4356-IND, dated May 3, 1983.
/1 Includes estimated interest during construction on loans and credits.



a                    a



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A THIRTEENTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $279.0 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Thirteenth Power
Project.  The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan
would be onlent to Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the National
Electricity Authority, at an interest rate equivalent to the variable rate
charged on the Bank loan plus a quarter percent for administration charges,
for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. The foreign exchange risk
will be borne by the Government of Indonesia (GOI). In addition to the Bank
loan, a loan of $20 million equivalent would be provided by the Commonwealth
Development Corporation of the United Kingdom (CDC) to help finance part of
the project cost. The project would also involve about $68 million
equivalent in export credits.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a
country economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The
latest of these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human
Development in the Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected
social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.3% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
*         resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a
developed system of agricultural commodity production and export. A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated
islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, while two thirds of the population live
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on Fifth Bapindo
Project (No. P-3525-IND), circulated under cover of R83-109, dated
April 21, 1983, and approved by the Executive Directors on May 10, 1983.



on Java which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urhan areas in both Java
and the Outer Islands, and the current rate of urban nopulation growth is
over 4% p.a.  The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places
Indonesia for the first time amongst middle income countries./l
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.         Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred
in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The Govern-
ment took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize
the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for
domestic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade the
dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receints and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, througb investment in infrastruc-
ture, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer
incentives.  This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests in 1980
and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth
rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth has
been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and distorted
incentives.
5.         Since 1981 the macroeconomic resource position has changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to
a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a
deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1932/83. Following the reduc-
tion in the OPEC market price from $34 to $20 in early 1983, resource
prospects worsened further. Faced with mounting pressure on the currency,
on March 30, 1983, the GOI devalued the rupiah by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970
to the US dollar. This was an important step in the short run adjustment
process, but barring a major recovery in oil prices, other adjustments will
be necessary, in particular in the rephasing of import-intensive public
expenditures. These measures will lead to a reduction in the growth rate.
At a more fundamental level the change in external prospects have emphasized
the need for substantial structural change in the eighties. The development
of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export base is essential
to the restoration of reasonable growth.
/1 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-3-
Incomes, Employment and iluman Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
_ncidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic
health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an
increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./I These improvements should not,
however, mask the continued existence of widespread poverty. Almost 50% of
the population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The
core of the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless
laborers form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and
where, for most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real
agricultural wages. Tlowever, in the last two years of good rice harvests it
is likely that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural
incomes on parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have
declined in the face of the international recession. Following the devalua-
tion this situation will likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed
by the international recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely
affected.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total
in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental
employment in the 197Os. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained
by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a
major source of labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying
the pattern of productive growth. The key issue is one of widespread
underemployment in the traditional sectors. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and
the encouragement of labor-intensive processes in both the traditional and
the industrial sectors.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment
in primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the wealk educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic develop-
ment and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education
will be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the
whole system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has
been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level, but
continued expansion and an improvemnent in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major
expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



-4-
mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only
18% of the rural and 401% of the urban population have access to safe
water/I compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for
1990.
Policy for Structural Change
9.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining. This would broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of agriculture and the small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 28%
devaluation of March 30, 1983, substantially improved incentives for
production of tradeable goods. Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a general
review of the trade regime, with a view to removing the distortions caused
by the wide variations in rates of effective protection. It has also
embarked on a program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil exports,
including export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved ports
procedures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates
(duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers from significant
domestic constraints to its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden,
especially in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly
developed financial system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these
constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to private
investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 9R% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment
measures. In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%,
and this followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive
step that substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



- 5 -
the average opportunity cost; however, relative prices between products
diverge widely from those prevailing on the international market. In
addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and private
participation, in coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro
and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and
the rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of
further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered
from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old,
but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic savings will have to be found. This will require a major increase
in resource mobilization through the public sector over the medium term,
through a combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and
increased nonoil taxes. In 1981 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic
economy were only 6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out,
compared with well over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 and
1983/84 budgets represented a significant effort to improve the situation,
with major reductions in the oil subsidy and increases in nonoil taxes, but
this will have to be sustained in following years. In addition to public
resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important to encourage the
growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of financialized savings,
through an improved financial regime and the development of a domestic
capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in
the short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important compo-
nent of this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total
disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost $20 billion at the
end of 1982 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $12 billion. The



-6-
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation
in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1982 private
source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact
that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s,
and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of
how far the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity
depends on commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and
this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to developments in interna-
tional markets. The implication is that debt utilization should remain very
prudent, and that there will be a continued justification for official debt
of long maturities in the 1980s. With the sharp decline in oil export
receipts the debt service ratio will rise in the short term, but present
projections indicate that the overall debt position will remain manageable.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of March 31, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 76 Bank loans amounting to $5,295.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia-s total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was 10.7%, and the share of debt service, 7.1%. By the end of 1981, these
ratios increased to 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex II contains a
summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 28,
1983, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Given the
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employ-
ment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transpor-
tation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-scale indus-
try), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifth Bapindo
Project (No. P-3525-IND), circulated under cover of R83-109, dated
April 21, 1983 and approved by the Executive Directors on May 10, 1983.



- 7 -
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given
to these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact
will require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work
is being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of
Bank involvement will be on policy and institutional development and tech-
nical assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration
between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level. The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work is focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will
build on Indonesia-s comparative advantage in labor and resource intensive
industries. This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which
would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued
lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree
crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transpcrt is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disburse-
ment ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of
21.31%, in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to 18%
in FY82. The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid
increase in commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



8-
commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase
of 83%. However, it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out
of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance
of tender documents and opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A
number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint
i,nitiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board considera-
tion at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the twelfth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Agricultural
Training, the Second Nonformal Education, the Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder Sugar, and the Provincial Irrigation Projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
Energy Resources
21.       Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including oil,
natural gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Oil and natural gas
now account for almost all of total ccmmercial energy consumption. While



- 9 -
undiscovered oil reserves are estimated at 10-40 billion barrels, proven
resources are 9.5 billion barrels. Unless massive new reserves are discov-
ered, production capacity is unlikely to increase beyond 1.9 million barrels
per day. GOI has therefore adopted a policy of promoting alternative
indigenous energy sources.
22.       The estimated natural gas reserve is 69 trillion cu ft (TCF) of
which 85% is non-associated and can be developed independently of oil.
However, reserves are generally located away from population and industrial
centers. The Arun field in North Sumatra has 17 TCF and Natuma, in the
South China Sea, 35 TCF. Production of natural gas reached 2,700 million cu
ft per day in 1979. Half of this was exported as LNG to Japan from Arun and
Badak. LNG production is expected to double by 1985 to 15 million tons per
year and to reach 28 million tons by 1990. Gas pipelines have been laid to
domestic steel and fertilizer factories and domestic consumption is expected
to increase by 15% every year.
23.       Indonesia's coal reserves are believed as high as 20 billion tons,
mostly located in West and Seuth Sumatra and Kalimantan. While production
is currently about 450,000 tons per year, major increases are expected by
GOI. Coal will become the major source of fuel for the power sector as
major thermal plants come on line in the 1980s. Work started early in 1982
on a 3.2 million tons per year mine at Bukit Asam in South Sumatra, and on a
0.6 million ton per year mine at nearby Muara Tiga coal field. Muara Tiga
has reserves to increase production to 2.8 million tons per year by 1990.
These two mines will supply coal to the Suralaya thermal power station which
is currently under construction in West Java; two 400 MW generating sets
will be in commercial operation there during 1985. A crash program to raise
the production at Ombilin in West Sumatra to 1.3 million tons per year by
1989 is now under active consideration by GOI. In addition, in 1981, GOI
entered into a number of production sharing agreements with private foreign
and Indonesian joint-venture companies for exploration and exploitation of
Kalimantan coal reserves. Exploration is now in progress.
24. Indonesia's total hydroelectric resources are large but its development
is limited by its geographic distribution relative to demand. The greatest
potential (over 35%) lies in Irian Jaya where the demand is less than one
percent of total domestic demand, while Java, which accounts for 80% of the
current demand, has less than 10% of the total potential. Existing hydro-
electric (both PLN and non-PLN) installations aggregate to 1,312 MW; they
are located mainly in Java (489 MW), Sumatra (612 MW), and Sulawesi
(181 MW). Schemes with an aggregate capacity of about 980 MW are currently
under construction. PLN is now carrying out a basic systematic countrywide
resource survey which, by mid-1983, would prepare a reliable inventory of
hydroelectric sites and a detailed program for their investigation. Such
resource survey will be followed up with various prefeasibility and feasi-
bility studies of the potential hydroelectric sites; the Bank will finance
studies of 26 such hydroschemes under the energy sector support program



- 10 -
included in this project.  Further, in 1982, GOI/PLN entered into an innova-
tive design-and-construct turnkey contract for the 190 MW Mrica hydroelec-
tric project in Central Java, financed mainly by commercial credits. If
this venture results in completion by the target date and at reasonable
costs, this approach could enable more rapid development of hydro resources
in future.
25.       Surface rmianifestations of geothermal energy are found on all
islands except Kalimantan, but only a few sites have been investigated and
only one, Kamojang in West Java, has been delineated. It is believed that
potential reserves may approach 10,000 MT distributed as follows: Java
5,500 MW: Sulawesi - 1,400 MW; Sumatra - 1,100 MW4; other islands - 2,000 MW.
GOI, in collaboration with the Government of New Zealand, initiated devel-
opment of Kamojang field in 1976. The first 30 MW generating set was just
commissioned for commercial operationin January 1983; the twelfth power
project (Loan 2214-IND) will assist in expanding the station by 110 Ml.  In
1982, PERTAMINA (the National Oil and Gas Company) entered into a joint-
operation contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of Union Oil of
California, for development of the Salak field in West Java; up to 495 MW of
capacity is ultimately believed possible there.  Exploration is in progress.
GOI has announced its intention to develop 900 MW: of geothermal capacity by
the end of the decade and plans to lease other sites to successful bidders.
26.        Besides promoting the exploitation of alternative commercial
energy sources, GOI is also exploring the possibility of substituting
charcoal for kerosene, which is widely used for cooking and lighting.
Indonesia-s forestry resources are abundant, and since they represent
renewable sources of energy, the cotntry could derive considerable savings
if appropriate technologies were developed to facilitate the use of firewood
for energy.
Institutions in the Energy Sector
27.       The principal agency responsible for the implementation of GOI
policies in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME).
MME was established in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy
sector and control the three state enterprises responsible for the execution
of GOI policies in the energy subsectors PERTAMINA for oil and gas, BATUBARA
for coal and PLN for electricity. Other ministries and agencies are also
involved in the sector: for example, Public Works deals with hydropower
resource surveys, Agriculture oversees forestry products, and the National
Atomic Energy Commission is responsible for nuclear development. In order
to ensure appropriate coordination of energy policy the President recently
established an inter-ministerial National Energy Board (BAKOREN) to oversee
sectoral development. Perhaps one of the most important of these organiza-
tional steps was the establishment of a unit for energy planning in the MME
under the control of Directorate General of Electric Power (DGEP). The Bank
is also assisting MME in this area of institutional development (para. 30).



- 11 -
Bank Role and Strategy in the Energy Sector
28.       The Bank has been actively involved in some of the sectoral
developments described above. During 1981, at the invitation of GOI the
Bank/UNDP carried out a detailed assessment of the Indonesian energy sector,
identifying policy options and analyzing investment priorities to provide a
framework for technical assistance and advice to GOI on institutional
aspects. The results have been incorporated in a report (No. 3453, August
1981) entitled 'Indonesia Issues and Options in the Energy Sector." This
report confirms earlier findings that alternatives for oil must be developed
quickly for electricity generation, and recommends that this should be
extended to industry, transportation and households. It further points out
that subsidized oil prices, weak institutions, manpower shortages and a lack
of detailed energy sector planning remain the chief obstacles to rapid
substitution of oil.
29.       Subsidized petroleum product prices have caused serious distor-
tions in the economy by failing to reflect the opportunity cost of these
products. The effects of this have been to favor the use of oil over other
competing fuels, the promotion of domestic consumption over exports and,
because the degree of subsidy between oil products is uneven, to distort
demand between individual petroleum products. The Bank has had a continuous
dialogue with GOI on the quiestion and has highlighted the consequences of
this policy in its economic and sector work, particularly in the above
Energy Sector Report. During these discussions, GOI has expressed its
intention eventually to eliminate subsidies on domestic oil consumption,
subject to maintaining the ability of poorer consumers to satisfy their
energy needs. This was most recently reflected in the domestic oil prices
increase of more than 60% in January 1983, which followed a similar increase
in January 1982. While this was a decisive step that substantially reduced
the differential between domestic prices and the average opportunity cost,
price relativities between products diverge widely from those prevailing on
the interantional market. For example, prices for aviation fuel and regular
gasoline are 119% and 144% of international levels, whereas prices for
kerosene and industrial diesel oil are 40%4 and 55% of international levels.
The Bank is currently finalizing a detailed follow-up study of the above
Energy Sector Report whose specific focus is on the pricing of energy
products and the implications of increasing energy prices in the industrial,
household and transportation sectors and on macro-economic environment. On
completion of this study, the Bank will hold further discussions on the
energy policy issues with GOI.
30.       The Bank is also providing various assistance for the institu-
tional development in the energy sector. Under the fifth technical assist-
ance project (Credit 898-IND) the services of various experts are being
provided for the energy planning unit of the MME. Under the seventh power
project (Loan 1513-IND) a consultant, PA International of the UK, designed a
management information system for all DGEP activities, which will be imple-
mented during the next two years. In addition, a number of assistance



- 12 -
efforts have been devised for PLN in such important areas as planning,
construction, accounting and training, and are mostly financed with the Bank
funds (paras. 44 and 45). Furthermore, in the coal subsector, various steps
are being initiated for the institutional and manpower development under
recent Bank-assisted projects, the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transportation Project (2079-IND) and the Coal Exploration Engineering
Project (Loan 2153-IND); and their progress will be closely monitored.
31.       The magnitude of investments necessary to implement GOI's policy
of diversification of energy sources is large. The Bank estimated that the
annual investments in the energy sector will increase from about $1.27 bil-
lion in 1980 to about $10 billion (at 1980 levels) in the year 2000. About
half of these will be directly in the electricity subsector. The Bank-s
lending strategy for energy is to continue its support for the investment
program in the electricity subsector during the next few years with a focus
on steps to overcome institutional weaknesses and manpower shortages.
Additionally, future projects are expected in coal mining development, and
possibly in city gas/LPG production to assist GOI's energy diversification
policy.
The Electricity Subsector
32.       The electricity subsector is regulated by MME through the DGEP.
It comprises (i) PLN, (ii) captive plants installed by private parties for
their own use, (iii) some small municipal franchises, and (iv) a small
n,'ber of cooperatives which were set up to provide electricity in certain
rural areas remote from PLN supply systems. Legislation was enacted in 1979
to provide for private and cooperative franchise participation in the
electricity sector.
33.       PLN-s Organization.  PLN is a public corporation (Perum)
constituted under Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility
for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and the
planning, construction and operation of electricity supply facilities. PLN
is managed by a board of directors headed by a President Director, who is
appointed by the President and is accountable to the Minister of Mines and
Energy. The President Director has authority for all day-to-day operations
of PLN. The board currently includes five other directors with functional
responsibility respectively for planning, construction, operations, finance
and administration. Operational responsibility devolves to 17 regions, and
responsibility for major construction to 14 project managers. Also
reporting to the board are three staff units responsible respectively for
power research, education and training, and management services, and an
audit unit, called the Corporation Inspectorate.
34.       PLN's Facilities.  PLN is the dominant executive agency in the
electricity subsector. It currently has about 3,000 MW of installed gener-
ating capacity - 1,150 MW of steam (oil fired), 800 MW of gas turbines,
500 MW of diesels, and the balance in hydroelectric installations. PLN also



- 13 -
operates over 6,400 km of transmission lines at 70 and 150 kV and about
50,000 km of distribution lines, the bulk of which are in Java. About
2,000 km of 150 kV transmission lines under construction are scheduled for
completion this year. Java now has a fully interconnected grid at 150 kV.
By 1904, a 500 kV system covering West and Central Java will be
commissioned; it will be extended to East Java by 1086.
35.        PLN's Market.  A study to assess potential demand in Java (which.
presently accounts for about 80% of the electricity consumption) was under-
taken in 1974-76 by consultants financed under an early power project
(Credit 399-IND). It showed that the underlying demand is so large that
PLN's sales growth would be limited only by its ability to supply until
about 1990; only thereafter would it be limited by growth of the market
itself. From 1977 to the present, PLN's sales have increased annually by an
average of 22%. Long waiting lists for new service connections and the
relatively low utilization of electric power inIndonesia by comparison with
neighboring countries, evidence a rarket potential consistent with the 1975
study. New forecasts are now being compiled by PLN. The present projec-
tions are that PLN's sales will grow at an average rate of about 20%X per
year until the end of the decade.
36.        PLN-s Long-term Development Plan.  PLN follows the practice of
preparing annually a long-term development plan to cover the projected
requirements of generation, transmission, distribution and other facilities.
The latest plan, covering the development period 1982/83 to 1993/94, shows
generating capacity increasing to about 19,000 MW. Coal-fired steam, hydro-
electric, and geothermal plants will register the greatest growth. These
sources, which presently account for only 1P7 of the total generating capa-
city, will increase their share to over 70% by 1993/04. Oil accounted for
80% of PLN-s generation in 1981/°2 but its share is expected to decline to
about 20% in 1993/94. It is thus a vital part of GOI's program of develop-
ment, of non-oil energy sources. The annual investments (1983 prices) are
projected to increase from $1.05 billion in 1982/83, to about $2.56 billion
at the end of the decade. PLN should be able to implement it provided the
required finance can be mobilized (para. 39) and provided management can
maintain the impressive rate of organizational growth (para. 45).
37.        PLN's Financial Results.  Coincident with PLN-s incorporation in
1972, measures were set in hand with the support of the Bank Group to
establish a sound financial basis for the organization and eliminate the
operating losses which were then being incurred. This was achieved by 1976.
Since then, PLN-s growth has been impressive: energy sales increased from
2,800 GWh in 1975/76, to 9,400 GWh in 1982/33, and capital expenditure grew
from under Rp 200 billion to around Rp 800 billion in the same period.
However, tariffs remained unchanged from 1976/77 through 1979/80 and earn-
ings and rates of return were negligible until 1980/81. In the period
1975/76 through 1982/83 PLN self-financed 19%o of its capital program, mainly
from depreciation retentions and customer connection contributions. Borrow-
ing accounted for 33% of the program, but the major source of funding was



- 14 -
GOI, which provided 48% of the program by way of equity contributions. As a
result of this mix of funding, PLN's debt: equity ratio is still quite low
at 30:70. Its latest balance sheet shows a healthy current ratio of 4.1 and
substantial liquidity. The main financial issues currently facing the
corporation are power tariffs and capitalization policy.
38.        Power Tariffs.  In 1979, GOI and PLN agreed under the seventh
power project that tariffs for electricity should reflect long-run marginal
costs (LRMC) as closely as possible. Since then PLN had made three tariff
increases including the latest one of 38% in February 1983. The present
average tariff level (Rp 75 per kWh) is about 65% of the current average
LRMC. Financial performance targets agreed between PLN and the Bank (para.
40) are predicated on attainment of an average tariff level equivalent to
LRMC by 1985/86. However, the above tariff increases in the past have been
effected entirely through energy charges /1 without appropriate adjustments
in demand charges /1 resulting in a distorted tariff structure. While the
present basic tariff schedule was introduced in May 1980, its structure is
therefore due for revision. One of the major distortions is that peak hour
charges (to industrial/ commercial customers) are substantially below the
costs of peak hour supply. Accordingly, an agreement was reached during
negotiations for the proposed project that PLN will complete by December 31,
1983 a study of its cost and tariff structure which would better reflect
LRMC of electricity supply (including peak hour characteristics). Based on
the result of such study, and after consultation with the GOI and the Bank,
PLN will design by March 1984 a new tariff structure and thereafter will
implement the appropriate recommendations and update its analysis of LRMC
each year (Section 3.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
39.        Capitalization Policy.  The attainment and maintenance of tariff
levels at LRMC would set a parameter to PLN's internal cash generation
capability. Furthermore, the size of PLN's planned capital expenditures,
and budgetary constraints facing GOI in the near term, suggest that it would
be imprudent for PLN to count on continuing to receive such a large propor-
tion of its funding in the form of GOI equity as it has done in the past.
But PLN is currently well placed to increase its level of borrowing. Its
balance sheet is sound and, given the low risk inherent in its near-term
investments (para. 35), PLN should be attractive to lenders both inside and
outside Indonesia. Therefore, its near-term objective should be to secure a
significantly higher degree of leverage in its financing plan by increasing
its long-term borrowing. A debt:equity ratio of at least 50:50 appears
easily supportable even on quite rigorous assumptions as to terms of borrow-
ing, and the Bank has therefore recommended to GOI and PLN that they should
/1 "Energy charge" is the charge per kWh based on metered consumption of
electricity. "Demand charge" is the fixed component of a customer's
bill which is designed to recover the "capacity costs" (e.g.
depreciation, finance charges) of the capacity the utility must keep to
meet peak demands.



- 15 -
consider increasing PLN's leverage to this level. GOI has commissioned its
financial advisers to examine and report on PLN's financial structure in
order to define a capitalization policy for PLN and help the corporation
prepare a financing plan.
40.       PLN's Future Financial Performance.  After financial recovery in
1976, PLN agreed with the Bank to adopt cash generation targets /1 as a
measure of financial performance. Targets for 1979/80, 1980/81 and 1981/82
were met. At negotiations for the Twelfth Power Project (Loan 2214-IND) in
late 1982, a target of 20% was set to be reached in 1985/86, with interim
targets for 1982/83 through 1984/85 of 10%. To preserve the stability of
cash flow and facilitate steady progress towards the pricing objectives, the
cash generation percentage target for each year is subject to adjustment to
take account of revisions of the capital expenditure forecast or changes in
fuel prices from the 1982 bases on which the targets were calculated. The
latest financial projections indicate that, with these adjustments, the
present targets remain attainable by PLN provided tariffs rise to the level
of LRMC as intended. They will be retained under the proposed project.
(Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
41.       The Bank has suggested that a rate of return approach would now be
a more appropriate measure of PLN's financial performance, but GOI does not
wish to reformulate the corporation-s financial objectives until it has
received the report of its advisers on PLN's capitalization (para. 39). The
Bank will accordingly pursue the suggestion in the context of future pro-
jects. The objectives currently established for PLN and expressed in terms
of the cash generation targets described above represent a positive rate of
return on revalued net operating assets, rising from 3% in 1983/84 to about
8% in 1985/86, and remaining at a level above 12% for the proposed project
period (1988/89).
42.       Existing debt limitation covenants under the ongoing Bank power
loans based on the debt:equity ratio and the debt service coverage ratio (on
historical net revenue basis) will be replaced under the proposed loan by a
new debt service coverage ratio covenant based on forecast net revenues
(Sections 4.03 and 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). Under the new
covenant debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of the agreement
providing for such debt or guarantee, rather than on the date and to the
extent it is drawn down. These changes reflect the growing recognition that
the new covenant would suffice for PLN's prudent debt management and, at the
same time, make allowance for the added revenue to be expected from an
investment being financed by borrowed funds. The new definition of the
timing of debt incurrence also gives a more practical application for an
/1 The percentage of capital expenditures for the target year plus the two
preceding years covered by its net revenue plus depreciation retentions
less debt service for the same three years.



- 16 -
expanding entity such as PLN, which is expected to rely more on borrowings
to finance its large investment program over a long period. PLN's financial
projection shows its debt:equity ratio approaching 50:50 by the end of the
decade with debt service remaining covered at least 3.0 times; this is
satisfactory.
43.       PLN's Overall Performance.  Over the past ten years, particularly
during the recent four years, PLN has grown impressively to become the larg-
est infrastructure utility in the country. During these four years (1978-
82) PLN has connected new consumers at the rate of about half a million
every year, and its sales increased annually by an average of 22%. Access
to service increased by about 50%. Performance indicators such as the
number of consumers per employee and the energy sold per employee improved.
Transmission and distribution losses were reduced by 5% to about 20%, which
would be further reduced to an average of 16% by the end of FY84/85 under
the loss reduction program included in the Bank-assisted Twelfth Power
Project. Standards of reliability of supply were improved. The growth of
uneconomic captive plants in the country declined after 1977 and seems to
have virtually ceased.
44.       Inevitably, such rates of growth have been attained at the cost of
considerable strain on the management system. Key areas in which a need for
strengthening has been recognized as a condition of maintaining the rate of
growth may be summarized as follows:
(a) planning: development plans - now fairly refined - need
supporting with financing and manpower plans to be fully credible;
(b)  construction:  problems of construction slippage, which began to
emerge as PLN tackled increasingly large and complex projects in
the 1980s, have highlighted the need to clarify and rationalize
responsibility for project management and improve control of
progress and cost;
(c) accounting: the company has outgrown its accounting and budgeting
systems, which are now badly in need of overhaul; and
(d) manpower development: the shortage of technicians and trained
managers at all levels indicates that PLN must expand its in-house
facilities for training and manpower development.
45.       In all of these areas appropriate remedial technical assistance
has been devised in consultation with the Bank, and in most cases is suppor-
ted with Bank funds. In construction a major consulting assignment is
already underway (Loan 1708-IND), and others are at an advanced stage of
preparation in accounting (Loan 2056-IND) and training (Loan 2214-IND).
Other smaller inputs of technical assistance have been financed as needed
both by the Bank and other lenders. As the results of these inputs materi-
alize over the course of the next few years, gains in efficiency can be
expected in the management areas affected. To maximize the gains, however,



- 17 -
and to sustain the planned rate of growth over the next decade (20% per
annum average in sales, 15% in facilities), PLN could with advantage now
consider a new approach to general management, fostering a greater degree of
delegation of authority and decentralization of decision-making and discour-
aging rigid adherence to hierarchical lines of communicaticn. Such an
approach could convey considerable benefits in efficiency and motivation,
and the Minister has already initiated certain steps in that direction,
including in particular a review of the job descriptions of all management
positions in PLN, with the prime objective of rationalization.
46.       Bank's earlier operations and PLN's performance.  Since 1969, for
a total of twelve projects, the Bank Group has provided $1,590 million for
power generation/distribution facilities in and around Jakarta and in West
and Central Java. Four distribution projects (Credits 165 and 334, and
Loans 1259 and 2056) rehabilitated and expanded the distribution facilities
in the greater Jakarta area. Eight power generation projects (Credits 399,
and Loans 1127, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950 and 2214) in West and Central
Java were undertaken to help PLN expand electricity generation capacity in
Java and provide a strong all Java 500 kV grid and to introduce a program of
micro hydro development in Sumatra. A completion report on the first two
projects (Credits 165 and 334) was issued in November 1979. The completion
report on the third and fourth projects was prepared in 1981 and is still
under review by OED. Lessons learned from all these operations have been
applied to subsequent operations. They relate mainly to timely appointment
of consultants, effective supervision, and lending as late as possible in
the project cycle.
47.       PLN's performance in implementing twelve Bank Group assisted power
projects was uneven at first. The earliest generation project (Credit 399-
IND) covering the first and second 100 MW units at Muara Karang thermal
station was completed about two years behind schedule; the next (Loan 1127-
IND) for the third 100 MW unit, had a delay of less than one year. The 2 x
200 MWJ extensions at Muara Karang (Loan 1365-IND) have just been completed,
over a year late and are operating satisfactorily. The Semarang project
(Loan 1513-IND) is about 18 months behind the appraisal schedule. The two
projects at Suralaya (Loans 1708-IND and 1872-IND) are also about a year
behind the original program. Physical progress of construction at the
Saguling hydropower project (Loan 1950-IND) was poor at the start but it has
since improved and is now proceeding fairly satisfactorily. Completion of
the Saguling dam is expected close to the appraisal target date though the
commissioning of the power station may be delayed by a few months mainly due
to landslide problems in the power house area. Good progress has been made
on procurement under the eleventh power project (Loan 2056-IND) with
contracts for about 87% of the loan amount having been approved within six
months of effectiveness of the loan.  Under the twelfth power project
contracts valued at about $40 million for urgently needed equipment were
approved before presentation to the Executive Directors. The overall record
of implementation of agreements reached in connection with these power
operations has been satisfactory.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.        The Cirata hydroelectric project was identified in 1973 during a
preliminary survey by the Japan International Cooperation Agency. The
feasibility study funded under Loan 1365-IND was undertaken by New Japan
Engineering Consultants (Newjec), who were also entrusted with detailed
engineering and preparation of bid documents under the tenth power project
(Loan 1950-IND). A Bank mission appraised the project in December 1992, and
negotiations were held in Washington in April 1983 with the Indonesian
delegation led by Abdul Kadir, Director for Power Industries, DGEP.
Supplementary data are in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report (No.
4356-IND) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
49.        The project to be located at Ci-rata - on the Citarum river down-
stream of another Bank assisted Saguling hydroelectric project site (Loan
1950-IND) would provide 500 MW of generating capacity initially (1,500 MW
ultimately) in Java, where electric power consumption is increasing rapidly
and additional peaking capacity is vitally necessary to complement the
steady growth of baseload coal-fired thermal generating capacity from lQ84
onwards. The project will also assist GOIs policy of economizing in the
consumption of domestic oil by maximizing the use of renewable primary
energy sources. It is on the least-cost path of electric power development
for Java. It will further strengthen PLN-s ongoing institutional develop-
ment through improved construction management and studies for further
development of the energy sector.
Project Description
50.        The project com,rises:
(a) construction of a storage dam, 125.0 m high, at Cirata on the
Citarum river, a 1.0 km long water conductor system comprising
tunnels, surgetanks, and penstock tunnels, and a 500 MW power
station (with 4 generating sets each rated at 125 M4), with an
associated 500 kV step-up substation and a 25 km transmission line
to nearby Saguling, including engineering services;
(b) provision of construction machinery for a PLN task force; and
(c) support of the government-s energy sector program by providing
technical assistance, studies and related equipment.
51.        PLN has built up a small construction task force of its own,
equipped to deal with emergencies - mainly on work being carried out by
local contracts - to ensure that the construction schedule of the main



- 19 -
project is not adversely affected by delays. Construction equipment
required, estimated to cost about $1.2 million is, therefore, included in
the scope of the project.
52.       As GOI0s energy sector development program increases in size and
complexity, a variety of technical assistance for specialized activities
become increasingly necessary to sustain future overall sector growth. In
the power subsector, while past Bank lending operations have provided
substantial technical assistance for various needs including institutional
development, financial provisions for this assistance are expected to be
fully utilized in the next few years. In order to continue to assist
GOI/PLN in these areas, the project includes an energy sector support
component totalling $37 million. These funds would be utilized for
consultancy services and related equipment to assist PLN, including, inter
alia, (a) construction management of major complex hydroelectric and thermal
power stations ($2.2 million); (b) pre-feasibility or feasibility studies of
26 future potential hydroelectric sites ($18.3 million); (c) feasibility
study of a new coal-fired thermal station site in West-Central Java ($2.5
million); (d) engineering design for Salak geothermal station in West Java
($4.0 million); and (e) engineering for Paiton coal-fired thermal station in
East Java ($7.9 million). PLN would retain these consultancy services in
accordance with Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Implementation
53.       The project will be implemented by PLN.  PLN has appointed a
project manager who has experience in dam construction in Indonesia, along
with an adequate complement of field staff. The project manager will be
assisted by PLN's headquarters staff. However, in light of the complexity
of the construction management involved in this type of major dam, PLN
agrees with the Bank that expert assistance, including those of a civil
works contract specialist on call and a full-time hydroelectric construction
(dams and underground works) expert, would be required during the implemen-
tation period; and funds are accordingly provided under the loan for the use
of such experts by PLN. The construction organization and arrangements are
appropriate for the nature of work involved.
54.       Newjec of Japan is the consulting engineer and is responsible for
design and construction supervision of the project. In addition, a Special
Board of Consultants (BOC) which was originally appointed to review the
investigations and design for the Saguling hydroelectric project, has been
closely associated also with the Cirata project, reviewing the feasibility
study and detailed engineering to ensure that due consideration was given to
all aspects involving safety of the structures. The appointments of Newjec
and the BOC members were made by PLN in consultation with the Bank. Con-
tinued employment of consultants, including BOC, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of the proposed loan (Section 2.02
and 2.08(b) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 20 -
55.       Detailed engineering of the project was completed in 1982.  Tender
documents for main civil and metal (penstock) works were issued on November
1, 1982 and opened on February 1, 1983.  Those for electrical and mechanical
works were issued on December 1, 1982 and opened on April 2 and 9, 1983. A
decision by GOI on award of the contracts for the former works is expected
by June 1983, and for the latter works by August 1983. The following prepa-
ratory works of the project are now in various stages of implementation: (a)
construction of about 35 km of access roads, improvement, and upgrading of
about 24 km of existing roads, three bridges and two main construction camps
and 70/20 kV lines for construction power supply; and (b) relocation of
about 22 km of roads and construction of several small bridges. The target
is to commission the first two generating sets by November 1987 and the
remaining two during April 1988. The construction program is tight but
capable of being achieved.  Crucial to its success is the award of the main
civil works contract in time to enable the main contractor to mobilize and
start work on the diversion tunnels for the main dam by July 1, 1983.  PLN
and GOI have reviewed their procedures for bid evaluation and approval of
the main civil works contracts, which, if adhered to by all parties
involved, could meet the project requirements.  After commissioning of the
project, periodic inspection and regular maintenance of the works will be
essential; an assurance would be obtained that PLN would prepare such
arrangements or programs satisfactory to the Bank, and implement them when
the project becomes operational (Section 2.08(a) and 2.09 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Costs and Financing
56.       Total project costs are estimated at $625.7 million excluding
interest during construction and the front-end fee on the proposed Bank
loan. Of this, $346.3 million (55%) is in foreign exchange. The total
financing requirements, including the interest during construction and the
capitalized front-end fee, are estimated at $769.1 million. Physical con-
tingencies have been provided for at the following rates: (a) electrical
and mechanical equipment and metal - 5%; (b) preparatory civil works - 15%;
and (c) main civil works - 12%. An additional physical contingency is
provided for unforeseeable conditions specially expected on this project due
to (i) complications of geology in the andesite quarry site; and (ii)
potential landslides of volcanic breccia and mudstone zones. These have
been assessed in rough detail and work out to about 10% of the base cost of
the civil works. Physical contingencies represent 15% of base costs, which
are at June 1983 price levels. Price contingencies were estimated as
follows: for the local costs, 20% for 1983, 15% for 1984, 11% for 1985, and
7% thereafter; for the foreign exchange costs, 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984,
7.0% for 1985, and 6.0% thereafter. As a percentage of base costs plus
physical contingencies, price contingencies represent 31% of the local
component, 13% of the foreign component and. 20% of the total. The cost
estimate for engineering covers 600 man-months- preconstruction design and
2,400 man-months for supervision of construction. The average man-month
cost, including basic salary, overhead and fee, international travel,



- 21 -
overseas allowance for resident field engineers and subsistence allowances
for staff on short field visits, is about $10,400. In addition, local
subconsultants will contribute about 700 man-months at an estimated cost of
$2,600 per man-month.
57.       The proposed Bank loan of $279.0 million, including the capital-
ized front-end fee will account for 36% of the total financing requirements,
and will meet 63% of the foreign exchange financing requirements. Specifi-
cally the Bank loan will cover the foreign exchange costs of (a) the civil
and metal works including preliminaries and environmental related works as
well as construction machinery for a FLN task force; (b) engineering; and
(c) energy sector support component. The balance of the foreign exchange
requirements will be met by $68.0 million of export credits for electrical
and mechanical works and $98.0 million from GOI/PLN sources for the interest
during construction. Furthermore, part of the local costs will be financed
by a $20 million loan from CDC; the entire balance of the local cost
requirements will be met by COI/PLN.  The Bank loan would be to the GOI,
which will onlend the proceeds to PLN. The onlending interest rate would be
equivalent to the variable interest rate charged on the Bank loan, plus a
quarter percent for administration charges for a period of 20 years, includ-
ing 5 years of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the GOI.
Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Procurement of the major civil works ($249.5 million), metal works
($20.8 million) and construction machinery ($1.2 million) whose foreign
exchange components would be financed from the proposed Bank loan would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. The civil and metal works bidders were prequalified by PLN, after
due international notification, in consultation with the Bank. The electri-
cal and mechanical equipment to be financed under export credits ($68.0 mil-
lion) would be procured in accordance with GOI regulations. Contracts for
minor civil works, such as site preparation and road relocation, would be
awarded through local bidding procedures which were found at appraisal to
be satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, minor equipment under the energy
sector support component would be procured in accordance with GOI's local
procedure up to the aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent.
59.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against the following items: (a)
civil works - 71.5% of expenditures on main civil works;/l (b) metal works
and equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of the ex-factory cost
/1 The Bank's disbursement against main civil works will be equivalent to
about 80% of the balance of the total value of the contracts after
$20 million of CDC funds will have been first fully disbursed against
the same contracts.



- 22 -
for locally vianufacutured goods, 65% of local expenditures for other goods
imported locally; (c) consultant services 100% of expenditures; and (d)
insurance - 65% of expenditures   TIn order to lessen the burden of project
firancing on the GOI budget during the next two years of critical resource
constraint (para. 61) and in line with the Bank's Special Assistance
Program, it was agreed that the percentage of disbursements under (a) above
will be increased to 90% during the first t-wo years and subsequently reduced
to achieve the above overall disbursement percentage. An amount of $6.2
million is expected to he incurred on consultant services prior to loan
signing and will be eligible for retroactive financing0
Benefits and Risks
60o        Using the tariffs currently paid by the consumers to be served by
the project as a surrogate for the benefits they will receive, the economic
rate of return to the project (ERR) is 14%o  The project would, in addition
to the benefit of power generation under the first stage, provide benefits
of additional generating capacity (1,000 fW) in the ultimate stage.
Furtk.er, it would afford downstream beneflits of municipal water supplies to
greater Jakarta and/or irrigation extension; these have not been evaluated.
The ERR of the project would be reduced to 12.3% if there is a delay in
construction of 6 months combined with a cost increase of about 10%.
61.       The rissks associated with the proposed project are the
uncertainties inherent in most hydroelectric projects, such as possible
geological problems, hydrological complexities, and similar matters.
However, the thorough and competent preparatory work undertaken by PLN and
consultants, as well as the precautions taken in establishing the BOC right
from the stage of feasibility studies through detailed engineering, are
expected to reduce the risks. PLN proposes to take out an umbrella type,
all risk insurance on the same basis as for the ongoing Saguling project as
advised by insurance experts. An additional physical contingency is provided
for unforseeable conditions especially expected on this project due to: (a)
com plications of geology in the andesite quarry site; and (b) potential land-
slides of volcanic breccia and mudstone zones. A further risk is delay to
the project as a result of scarcity of local counterpart funding resulting
from the present recesssion.  Tariff action by PLN to increase its self-
financing ratio (para. 40) will red-ace its dependence on GOI budgetary
contributions. The measure to increase disbursement percentage of the Bank
loan against civil works during the first two years of project implemen-
tation will also help reduce this risk (para. 59).
Environmental and Ecological Impact
62.        Environmental aspects have been given due consideration from the
initiation of the project investigations in 1980. There has been extensive
ivolvement of environmental specialists in baseline and impact studies,
design review, and implementation planning.  The cooperation of project



- 23 -
management and provincial and Kabupaten leaders has been commendable. The
Governor of West Java and the Bupatis (District Chiefs) of three affected
Kabupatens, have supported the project by issuing seven decrees to facilitate
land acquisition, resettlment planning and resettlement implementation. In
January 1983, the Minister of Environment, cleared the project for
construction.
63.       Compensation and resettlement of persons with homes or other major
interest in the reservoir areas were the most serious environmental problems
confronting the project. To resolve it, the following measures have been
taken: (a) a two-year anthropological, socio-economic, and ecological base-
line and impact study (including censuses and property inventories) has been
completed; (b) practical alternatives to transmigration have been developed,
scheduled, and evaluated for the 6,355 families residing in the reservoir
area; (c) decrees freezing land transactions, creating a Resettlement
Coordinating Board, stating resettlement policy, and creating resettlement
implementation teams have been issued and are now in effect; (d) a direct-
payment compensation system has been in satisfactory operation for more than
a year; (e) a resettlement cost estimate has been prepared on the basis of
recent experiences in land acquisition, compensation administration, access
road construction and site planning and development; (f) high-level cross-
sectoral mechanisms have been established since March 1983 to deal with the
resettlement problems of people affected by large hydroelectric development
schemes; and (g) adequate budgetary arrangements have been made for FY83/84
to permit prompt response to environmental problems at the provincial and
local levels. Apart from the problem of optimizing the high water level of
the reservoir and its design life, public health impacts, aquatic weed
control, fisheries enhancement and drawdown agriculture were the main
ecological issues; all of these have been the subject of investigation, and
satisfactory arrangements to regulate each have been implementeed. Although
considerable attention has been given to planning resettlement as above, in
light of actual experiences of implementation problems gained in connection
with the on-going Saguling project, assurances were obtained from GOI that
it will continue to (a) carry out an environmental/resettlement Plan of
Action satisfactory to the Bank; (b) monitor closely resettlement and
environmental activities; and (c) furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on
the progress and implementation of the Plan of Action and other aspects
related to resettlement and environmental activities (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 24 -
65.        The special features of the Loan and Project Agreements are
referred to the Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effective-
ness of the Loan are that: (a) all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the CDC Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled; and (b) the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and PLN
(para. 57 and Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 11, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                    Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
TOTAL            1919.3                                           MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      316.5                   1960  lb    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        80.0       140.0            430.0             261.4                  890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           124.7       121.9            225.4             448.7                  701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      94680.0    116143.0          146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6        17.1             20.2              17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                              2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3         60.5             74.6             158.1                  255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          355.9       378.8            452.4             355.9                 1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              40.7         44.0             40.1              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                               56.2        53.4             56.9              59.7                   56.8
65 YES. AND ABOVE                         3.1         2.5              3.1               3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1         2.0              2.3               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                                   3.7          3.6              4.0               3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BIRTH HATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.8        40.7             35.3              29.3                   31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           24.5        17.2             13.3              11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.8         2.7              2.2               2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..       181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         0.2             27.1              19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               93.0        102.0            113.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        86.3         93.9            101.7/c            97.3                  106.E
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               38.2         42.4             44.8/c            56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              5.6         6.2              6.67/            20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          22.9         16.8             11.3              10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2         47.3             53.1              57.8                   59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               149.9        120.9             92.7              89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIEON)
TOTAL                                     ..         3.0             12.0/d            32.9                   32.0
URBAN                                      *        10.0             35.o7T            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                                     *-         1.0              6.07-            22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
CF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..        12.0             15.0/e            18.1                   37.7
URBAN                                     ..        50.0             60.o07;           72.7                   65.7
RURAL                                     ..         4.0              5.0o7             4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              46778.7      26498.5          13674.6            3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          4517.0       7672.8           8871.6            4929.3                 4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1360.3       1644.6           1609.9/d          1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                                 251.8           ..            699.0/d           301.3                  651.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..           3166./-d          5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..          ..             22.4/e              .,                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    4.4         4.8
UR BAN                                  4.9          5.3
RURAL                                   4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                                1.5
URBAN                                     . .        1.6               .
RURAL                                     '          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..          ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                                            ..                ..



- 26 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV/ERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                       71.0         78.0             94.0              97.4                    96.2
MALE                       86.0         83.0            100.0             101.0                    99.8
FEMALE                     58.0         73.0             89.0              87.8                    92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                        6.0         16.0             22.0              53.0                    37.6
MALE                       10.0         21.0             27.0              63.8                    41.1
FEMALE                      3.0         11.0             18.0              41.3                    34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)         20.4         22.1             19.8                1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 38.8          28.9             37.2              37.7                    35.5
SECONDARY                                14.0         13.1             17.0              20.2                    25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)              39.0         56.6             62.0               52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                1.1          2.1              3.5/c             1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                7.2         22.0             41.9              35.4                   116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1           0.8              8.6               3.2                    37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       lL.O            ..             17.7/d            16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         2.8           ..              0.8mT             3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34791.4      41069.9           52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.8         30.9              29.3              29.5                    33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   75.0          66.0             58.0              70.0                    52.2
UNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.0         10.0              12.0              15.0                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
O0TAL                                     36.7         35.4             35.9              40.0                    38.5
MALE                                       54.2         49.5             51.0               51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                                     20.0         21.6             20.9              23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.2          1.3              1.2                1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..           ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..             49.47.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..            ..              6.6/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..            ..             14.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                     ..            ..            136.0             133.8                   194.7
RURAL                                      ..           ..            112.0             111.5                   155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                      ..           ..            119.0                 ..                  178.2
RURAL                                      ..           ..             98.0                 ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                      ..           ..             28.0              43.8                    24.4
RURAL                                      ..           ..             51.0              51.7                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
a.ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                                    Page 3of 5pages
DFyINtITINtS OF SOC1IAL ItNDICATORS
Note:  Alhthogh she data are drat. ion  .oer.e  generallyjudged the motat-                   iain    n eibe,i hudas  be -noteoh.r ninel sy  non. be  ncs
-aounl y              I.....rbrdaeo   in  doso n.adarind afloiloo   an .d  -rr-pte ead by 01fd               esousist  -ol1erina  the dat.  The data ar,noe
thees    eetl i  desnb  Ord_o  of nageitde. irditoai  trns,ad nbh-a-rnta  -an-i  maJor diff f.resoes betee
The  efrenontrops ae I    he sane       nu try%u  osheA sbj-ro  .ountry and (2) atoo..ntry   roPnisin  soseuba  highes  -n-rg    -n   than the ..ountry group
of  he  ob ernnoutr  letey   fo    "sgh Ingm otisotas  fop  here "Middle Inoott  NrtLh Afntoa and Middle fans" Inninoant' ieteos  nf                            . iognr
and 0  nut  nhier. cauIon est in  enrti-ed i,relaniroane--esI      oseindinanor no another   These anrge reoly usful In unprn lhe nalee nf
AhIA (tinouaend sqt.kI                                                                               Poraftprfot Icfd-noa ,                              -na,ad rena   - PopuIlar-u  (total.
Tul-TotalIurEntue I owsng -au  aree anId inlad   strs  1919 dent,                                urba, an,d ruth) d!iided in ptheir  eposr nbro                 iba   albd
bsneu -ure- EnomtI       ci af ine1lsu1 ars  used t-porailyeII pnrnoooty                           ant-ilbl  Inn   bini   and yninat  gaealad aP-i.alled hospital1  sdt-
ion croo, pasue.-   srk-c and kitnh-n nrdne or to lie fallon; i919 datazb. hehlatioonnere. Moeisa sm    sthlof                                                 --t      -Isnaanl   -saitd
hy at leaston  phsec           -ltblisbhart  pronidilog pr-oipe11yon-
1sF PERldlPIid(ll         GNlP pot napl -r nlate  tcratratryer.    -deIur-r   o   niudd.  Pea    us-                                                     l.hora,   nld  h-alh
nuand by sae-    nesn    nindu   c1    aku ln(98f   at)  198.                                      ad ndnlcn nn   p-rsenlly -naffd Op a nihyniriar (hut by
1970, sod I9WO dato,.                                                                                 _ndte  anssta.s..  nurse ;.nidnfa , rsn.)  intoi  offer in-patien a...          -
dation and p-indesI linIsad`rage of sedinal tartlines.  F- or-sal
tNRiMY CINSUMPIiON Pig CAPITA    A .snoolnosuyn            f n-nrrina  -tegy moe1!                      tinna  ltponon  ute  haspisals ilnldr WhiOl  Pliinlpe iruea-  hnnapitulIs
and ltgiltr  pe -nleun.-  na Ita   e-  and hydro-.  -oen-  Osd geucihere  a ir-                       and  ena  h.ylal, I In o   ua1tegeoededoledsnni 
frotlnkbingrss of -oel ee-lnu ,n pen rapc-; 1960I, 1910  end 1979                             orotrt         -irotli-d inoyltl-     rei-nluded only under- ea.
HSfree h-npiltel dleided by nine n-be of inede.
fotel Pooclaftco. Old-lear introadodo I - Os~~~~~~A  of Jely I; 1960, 1910. and 0980  flOOUSINI
do1  ...ntdfslicso oIhonarpo                      ..p   ..o nop_nbij etyof dat                     an .d  mhi Os-in  -1at.  A boerder or Ildgrmo  or          IyIo inn -nludad in
emmtont 6aOIb. Ihil. andIdddtu                                                            thn  h-unhold iof     itlsnlpupne
Popu.ation..co....;..e                                                                     rerge_oI rrc....     nn    .rr         ..o.-u... ....., and. rui   -   nrgen
t--e  Popelae   to ege end ea  ad their nut> l y                                                            -n ntlt    ori  eleg    epe-euly.  Dee I-err  Io-ld enr-rsneIstetre   n
Otejontion  patonenert- iur eserfa let> resra eosnresn -'I titona leneicannon-    ut'ntcfopln-  yarnod
IIIel,atdhtnat_ of_ enIrte,yeI_c-bl i_on                 -7.   neuts         -.hepaI -          Cennlnllmo lllgatnaesleynlxoannonprefg
na drnlo -arlllprteaennutlnoti                7nloeoonoel-            rr                      itt I.ehn   anttloolnarrneey
farnoloep   nrcruttonunocarlnrelndtuotineoyylcnreru-tnicr -anre
satin countr  Ia ntenaoteoef one of hno  tenraeatn Ic"iI entac                     PllOIO-t       --II    -     -l.g                p it
saint nenstnt   nl'eocuacnennod oly alter lttoJit>  ease  d-cine  no                   prli-uy noheni-aopuplele -; r lly includes  hinlld- aged h-Il
throplannooteneciuolneteprount;onan.oberao    genratin                             yern ieccoenndrnrliferhslnrc-hfpynarednottonin.
ciscornreyfatesltnnlienucnlp.   Iheotoncone-_   yoyolacb_i_ oes_                       _no__   _eso_s ocnnn ',dntfcrrlnn    emnnln    en
ihnar2000. andtIIner-cecfatni-ceoIot.tilitny-scttor-plan-                                 Oeadrsiol-nalnladeeoio pe-d  efa -n;srr-dar.y;
Iran  cuthnaty opeleclo  er_a-nId - TIt fyar ste   ---eteny                                                                                                 Itealtprodsgneu,oototl nlainrm   nr  c -rocn   for pop
beroanhed.                                                                              ....alOyuflltoli  yeor-ef.g,trepdtnooeargeeel
fenelarne;  IdnI  110ad  -)0 Cas.p-                                                               loleote-nia,foenrel   r  fn   pogrmehninierf ,d-ed
-Forc   19h0agruc7lt-d 19a9d.-Iepcdsuuofrgt   l.rlocotyrsdyrsnstendt    nc Tetlens., 
onl;  lse  19010 ad 1919 dat.                                                              Pupil-teacher rats_n-prt            and_--uno Ie -Totl               d -ndsenrle   In-
yOe,Ulcnr.li   In-ur (Torrent> - -             - Aoltn (0-l  letl.ar  0-o    1-pIayedennanInl d, olde  ho1-                                           -dser  of reren Ind     h
yna  ppuocort           9 l0n-h0. 19h0-ih. and 1970-d0.
Ponolat len loceth len; (percent>  - ethun - drone I gtoott tatece,' ertan pope- -T-o-I-nSiPTIcn
clnde Birein R-e  (pr  h--eud>  - AIno-e (            -eo     -   Lh--e                              I'lleneil-pu   ouesoinol  Iees then  -ghpentl  oIdu uhlur     harean
1o9lten    0h, (910. en  11  lc.                                                             o  tarpehe.Ic
ColAn Druth here I(111 p     .. Iudl - On-oal d-ahn  -n  nhocsu,,d  c  idsy-pe                     00Ice Orteer -      n   hnnn          cltt        Ali lypo ni  -enthern  foe  .edt.
yelnn11960, 1971. sni980 dnt-                                                               tecasuanripiltprnhund nipplcu;fn  oe   o
o.httt-tensol drenen   oderIspenr   ol ntoonaIaanl- ylannc-IgroS ea...                                                                            i,"II
nO nhild-eerlngso   (1011  yrrs( dr en htrnin;nnlrc I   eneorstoineenyapa llrrelalon dyerthousand ep--i-con>d- ViYns the a-rage nut
allnatrteloonencnnumoagainnnp                                                       nolatlonof"dally sInetl c.tn..           tntalr          h,dtteaaprnla
Pebit-esio  de...tsd prli-rly  to  -erd-en   genera  neat.-  Iteinn--idnr-d
yOoo ANp OOTOIPi`o                                                                                      t  he "dap   iP It appacr  At  -ler  root rIs-  a o-k1
prdoco   o f all ted n~Ott               ndncnnldsed enl feed d d                                clAs   oddrostepe,lreot    dlsoso    ta-In  Inemo
nioianRag   .r....Ir Ili0  -Ngh-s  1961-hO, 1)0.1 and 198  dat.                         ItlLbor F-ru Icth-nne ..   - I          rsnll    reepercs                   ot
pm  don.  instleolt spplIes nuprloe d--etl  p-edn-to-n., -sos-pes                          otte .qrb1, 1910, 1910 and 1980 dlet.
,InuntIniotted  In feudprutfstttg.aol Ico lot In dtsntlh tln.   lean-Innotrprnt(-ieo Itom   In. fees..... Infant», hunIng. and
taserenIated hy Ph .hald  -o phyntolol-e  -edo for              -- n io c-c-                 f-hhnogasptm       faeo  ctatf linn- forte; 1961. 1970lad 1n980 dat.
-yth-dio-lthnu-nid-eRInne- .r.... eftn_.. aute .hdyn-tghts.ege                                     _ InutylrntL-.a nrerrntn  te-cg.oon---ti-tsnfatt
and one dltih-nb--   i poycf--r  and .1101-, 10 percen  tu  nst  an-end   en l p                                                -tntad rnn  pert-cg   of total labor  tome;
hone ,diI), 1961-ct. 1900 a-e IPP  dre                                                         1160, 1910 and 1980 date.
Perraptacnponrnool                      AOaspne-l- Poccet Ieoe. ...        Ienpn                   IacttpuIccnn ot I'llon-             ItImonnunoIaatIiat
nnsylynIfoed- erday   Nnfn-cpylrcfntsnct ua                         Ru.     -                                                                                "Itineearntoeetlo.aaageollbroca
qclnennnn  or al coorte     ctbched hy 031  pronedr fin  -c -ne                             yn-r-ttg-nitne             -ol  and femal  popolatlon of all cons  -ep-otl-l;
elfenurcet ntbhoreneef  f-eta.....e.n.erd.nnno,d 20te-m iant-l end                          1960. 1971.anfl9d>es             hsaeaeolLeprliolnae
Amdre  O a;(it-h  1970 endO>  dat -1                                                      to theIIrota>  lahotterceId
Wr-ndon -derS-ed  trot1I6fe ne9ls Idh197  d--f -tp1t  dt,o   ,snhl
Inuinol                                                                             P010010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II -5    17      97   .-  NO   PaSRIBTyIIOFN
onboh; O)9lP   r  IOtfdata,                                                                        and shu,dhe Ioeeprtnd c-P  npnldguh t nateot
uIfla bi  tth -9ean   le   Its;(it,>7  aol71980 daa.                                                Oheolot - ond nty  moose_~  _rn    is that. bInosI ea   ao   iti      t
her    ....  I.pe..a.(tnal.  nter,and rnal>    tIi'rasnene        -tassnoi    a-ffdordILin-le.
aetna  sep10  (ton f LtstOtdsufe    aar   ro ette              . h .t ..un t-i-inted      Esitnered atla to   Fperrin InIone Len-l lli)yyy  -eylf) -   lOan and tona   -
of tiner-   nyrto    _oollne               lone  in an area   pblin                  prsni Iten  feIIIae...nty.                Ib tr-on  ane    td-ri-d ftrm  tint rena
-Iutanrnedpusloc-r-dnnrmotnha-               Uonnr  tea            naYSeIen    -ethadj--tn fnctnhtineros   of Ilcrcngi ttebatsnt
oreaonnhleuenrsoncele  In ~lpb.he  the h-ene-fe or n-nnr  of the h.usubed                 and  -ere    P-- yrn  of po`po,lei_o  ehnedrrl   b   r   auls
fesllc'  aener n-etle."' -
OI-ocl,nrna. ndreal
Ouniero>nonuIcnnl   oine   andtut'. Itor.> iOOOceteIarnolh
nncruatthorsn,so    uneec-OIrs    opetlncl-                                      lu
eorealtteun,audueynsaY.etec-noe-e-ete-jmrs
ondaanr-aecr tou tnrr-or--.oitnA-1ytnrellsttdnoatdp--.
c-on conner leclote- -,d.   b                     b       p......k- 98



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                        Actual                         Es1:imate          Projected
Indicator                             1980           1975   1976   1!                                          2   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.5    2.1    4.8            5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                        22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                  15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0    4.3
Exports of GNFS                   21,365           -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0    2.0    2.0
Gross national savings            17,576          -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    637    675    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9          8.4          7.5         5.0          5.0
Agriculture                  54      47     32      26      22      17         2.7          4.1          4.1         2.5         3.5
Industry                     14     18      34      42      44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7          5.5         6.5
Services                     32     35      35      33      36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0          6.5         5.0
Consumption                  91     89      79      70      74      74         4.1          8.4          8.9         5.0         5.0
Gross investment              8      14     20      22      26      27         4.8         18.3         11.7         6.0         4.5
Exports of GNFS              13      13     23      31      23      18         3.6          9.2          8.7        -2.4         1.8
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19              3.2         22.1         14.0         2.5         3.5
Gross national savings        8       9     17      25      25      22         6.1         23.1         14.4         4.8         5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975           1980
PUBLIC FINANCE lb
Current revenues                                                            11.7           10.1            10.5           23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0            8.4             9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                 -2.3            +1.6            +7.1          +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0           10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2            3.5             3.7             3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              4.9             4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5              2.5             2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)                 2.9             16.0                15.0              7.0             6.0
ICOR                                                      2.2             2.2                  3.1             4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30             0.2             0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2             2.8                  1.9             1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 31, 1983



Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)                 -  29  -                                                     ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                                  Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Estimate                  Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,994    19,385   18,193   22,270   25,344   48,180
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   18,824    15,631   13,893   16,979   19,004   31,759
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,170          3,754    4,300    5,291    6,340   16,421
2.  Imports (including net NFS)         -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -22,096   -22,900  -21,472  -22,558  -23,740  -39,850
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,407    -5,468   -4,617   -4,451   -4,467   -7,001
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,022   -14,803  -14,388  -15,584  -17,029  -30,155
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -586      -659      -975   -2,667    -2,629   -2,467   -2,523   -2,244   -2,694
3.  Resource balance                        175      -140    3,459    3,596         898    -3,516   -3,279        -288    1,604    8,330
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,267    -3,772   -4,151   -5,004   -5,910  -10,245
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -514      -772      -819      -840    -1,118   -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -3,036
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -501      -489      -386   -2,427    -2,654   -2,832   -3,387   -3,957   -7,209
5.  Capital grants                           66        46        52       -76        67        100       100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109    2,250    2,467   -2,302    -7,188   -7,530   -5,395   -4,605   -1,915
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140       134        276       350       450       600    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                    1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    3,203           5,180    5,920    6,684    6,673    7,091
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1,548   -1,329        -953   -1,001    -1,376   -1,770   -2,042   -2,440   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131        657       536    1,583    2,202       3,803    4,200    4,642    4,233    1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       891   -1,261   -1,454   -1,172           874    2,050        156      -202       -10
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736         988      2,234       729       -55      -426   -2,231
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354          4,120    3,390    3,445    3,871    8,775
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                         3.4       4.3       5.6      6.9       5.4         3.0       2.6       2.4      2.5        3.4
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                  -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154         7,420    5,390    5,445    5,871   10,775
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1       9.5        5.4       4.1       3.8       3.8       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                      1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                       -42         44                  679       8
Bilateral                                381       448       399       631       729
IDA                                       49        29        30        42        68
Other                                     12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,552
Official export credits                  218       271        61        25       154
IBRD                                     191       168       199       331       106
Other multilateral                        16        12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089    1,270    1,126    1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed Id   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                    7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,783
Undisbursed debt                       4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262    2,062    2,101    1,772    1,974
Interest                               441       514       771       819       973
Payments as x exports /e                11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(7)                                      6. 3      7.6       6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                        5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5       18.7      19.1      19.0     15.6
Official - source                       23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                       10.4       8.6      11.1      10.0      10.7
As 1 of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                  30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                 60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7b  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
77  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.                                                                  East Asia and Pacific Programs
7   At end of period.                                                                                               March 31, 1983
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.



- 30-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                  Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-five Credits fully disbursed  559.3   521.5               -
400      1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -        7.8          0.5
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                -       16.5          4.7
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                 -       16.0          0.4
1100      1975   Sixth Irrigation                            65.0     -            6.7
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension            21.5     -            0.1
1197      1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0     -            3.0
1236      1976   Fourth Highway                            130.0      -            6.9
1237     1976   Fourth Education                            37.0      -            4.4
1250      1976   Second Shipping                            54.0      -            1.8
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension               22.0      -            0.2
1268      1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0      -            6.3
1318      1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0          -            0.3
1336      1977   Second Urban Development                    52.5     -            5.1
1337      1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0      -            9.0
1365      1977   Sixth Power                               116.0      -          28.4
1373      1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0      -            2.8
1433      1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0     -            7.2
1434      1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.0      -          28.8
1435      1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.0      -            4.4
1472      1977   Second Population                          24.5      -            7.1
1486      1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.0      -            4.0
1499      1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.0     -           23.9
1513      1978   Seventh Power                              94.0      -          29.7
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                 -       40.0          9.1
1578      1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0      -         106.8
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                         31.0      -          14.0
827      1978   Rural Credit                                -       30.0          3.7
1604      1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II           65.0     -          48.6
869      1979   Polytechnic                                 -       49.0         24.1
1645      1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.0     -           47.2
1653      1979   Third Urban Development                     54.0     -           23.1
898      1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -       10.0          8.7
1691     19 79   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.0     -          29.6
1692      1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.0     -          13.2
1696      1979   Fifth Highway                             123.2      -          74.8
1703      19 79   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0     -           9.1



31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan!                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
919    1979   Transmigration II                            -      67.0        23.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -          88.1
1708    19 79   Eighth Power                              175.0     -          77.5
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         36.0     -          24.2
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                 -       12.0        9.6
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -          63.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development               -      45.0        34.4
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                         -      45.0        28.9
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II            -      42.0        36.4
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.0     -          84.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV           42.0     -          35.3
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.0     -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0        24.4
1869    1980   Third Population                            35.0     -          33.6
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.0     -         203.6
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development             46.0     -          40.6
1904    1981   University Development                      45.0     -          43.9
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250.0      -         177.7
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.0     -          18.1
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.0     -          38.8
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V           161.0     -         150.4
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0          -          24.1
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                    85.0     -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                             170.0     -         167.8
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                15.0     -          14.9
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0      -         158.4
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                    100.0     -          98.9
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                     80.0     -          79.8
2102    1982   Second Textbook                             25.0     -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                        37.0     -          36.1
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                      70.0     -          66.3
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution            66.0     -          64.1
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI              68.1     -          67.0
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                25.0     -          24.6
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                    5.5     -           5.5
Engineering Project /1
2214    1983   Twelfth Power /1                          300.0      -         300.0
2232    1983   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders VII /1 154.6          -         154.6
2235    1983   Provincial Health /1                        27.0     -          27.0
2236    1983   Jakarka Sewerage & Sanitation /1            22.4     -          22.4
/1  Not yet effective.



-32-                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
2248    1983   Transportation III /a                     101.0     -         101.0
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development          30.0     -          30.0
Project /a
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              5,246.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -200.11   -7.69
Total now outstanding                         5,046.49  924.11
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b             5,045.46  924.11
Total undisbursed                             3,082.70  207.90   3,290.60
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 33-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles.              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8      18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 79.6       5.7       85.3
Total held by IFC                                   39.2      12.3       51.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   16.7             -       16.7



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1983
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                  6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects  (1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751, 1835,           10-13
2007, 2126, 2232, 984, and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (996, 1840/1014 and 2066)                        14
Rural Development (946)                                                       15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                 16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1703, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079, 2153, and 2214)            19-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industry (2199)                                                               22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                          22
Population and Health
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                    23
Health (2235)                                                                 23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                             24
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                24
Highways (1696, 2049 and 2083)                                            25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       26
Ports (1337)                                                                  26
Tourism (479)                                                                   27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      27-28
Water Supply and Sanitation (1709 and 2236)                                  28-29
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                       Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about two years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
delays in the completion of bidding documents and land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 89% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was expec-
ted to be completed by early 1982. The construction of North Sadang has
suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late award
of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984. Dis-
bursements at the end of February 1983 were about 80% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. All of the stage I area
(75,000 ha) has been completed. Only the drainage works and road improvement
in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be delayed due to
budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has mobilized
additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction supervision



ANNEX II
-36-                      Page 7 of 29 pages
at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the Madiun
works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were 51% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
DBate: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well. Pumps were commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 95% completed. Land
clearing and levelling is progressing satisfactorily and is about 60% accom-
plished. Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems have
been completed. One of these schemes is now under execution with cofinancing
from the Federal Republic of Zermany (KfW) assistance while detailed design of
another (about 29,000 ha) is being financed under Irrigation XVII (Loan
2119-IND). Detailed design of Sungai Dareh Sitiung Stage II (about 8,800
ha) has been completed and its construction is being financed under
Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND). Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were about 87% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvement of about
19,900 ha of Way Seputih; (c) improvement and expansion of about 63,100 ha
of Way Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of
two dams associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and
Gumbasa irrigation projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and
also studies of two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of
irrigation to Bekri, West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung
Province. Due to initial delays in survey and mapping of the Way Seputih/
Way Sekampung irrigation service areas, delay in deciding canal capacities
till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage during the years 1979
and 1980, implementation is behind schedule by about two years. However,
the field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the
staffing situation has improved. Consultants have made substantial progress
on the preparation of designs and tender documents for the project. Due to
the GOI decision to defer construction of the Batutegi dam for 3 to 4 years,
the scope of the project has been revised. Disbursements are currently



- 37-                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
about 35% of appraisal estimate. Studies of Dumoga irrigation project were
completed and implementation of its works included in Irrigation XV (Cr.
995-IND).
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The main part of this project, the Cipamingkis irrigation sub-
project is progressing well. This will serve an area of about 7,600 ha.
Its headworks with intake structure are completed while contracts for main
and secondary canals will be completed only a little behind schedule.
Tertiary design and construction are behind schedule but the project is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1984, a delay of 18 months as
compared to appraisal estimate. Feasibility studies including detailed
designs of a new Glapan barrage and mid-Lusi river diversion irrigation
system are underway. These replace the preconstruction work previously
planned for the Jragung dam, which is now being deferred. The Hydrological
measurement program is expected to be completed with a delay of about 18
months and will be completed in early 1983. Disbursements were about 58% of
the appraisal estimate at the end of February 1983.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the
Cisedane irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and
studies of drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation
areas; tidal and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang
and Mesuji areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and
detailed designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang
Agung of S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased
to 205,800 ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads
improvement are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985,
a delay of a year over appraisal estimate. All studies are completed.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 42% of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project'are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the



- 38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 43% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1811   Fourteenth Irrigation:  $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area; and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen
Sampean subprojects. Contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one and a half year-s delay because of weak
management and slow land acquisition. Works in the Madiun area and the
tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 52% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: completion of the Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation
system for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and establishing a nature reserve
on an area of about 100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy
services and training; and studies and investigations of four irrigation
systems. Construction of the Toraut headworks and the first 2 km of the
main canal which commenced in January 1981 is progressing satisfactorily.
Offices, staff houses, and a rest house at Menado have been completed. The
award of two ICB contracts is behind schedule and project completion may be
delayed to June 1985 (compared to mid-1984 in the appraisal estimate). With
Bank agreement, GOI has expanded the nature reserve into a "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. Construc-
tion of the park headquarters building has commenced and is expected to be
completed by June 1983. Four studies included in the project have been
substantially concluded and some additional work was recently added.
Institutional support programs will continue up to June 1984. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 55% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project includes reclamation of 9X000 ha of Karang Agung swamp
area in South Sumatra province, construction of canals, land clearance,
construction of 3,200 settlers houses with community facilities for trans-
migrants from Java and Bali and studies for future swamp development,
upgrading of existing swamp development area and ecological studies of swamp
development. A civil works contract (ICB) for construction of canals, for



- 39 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
about $4.5 million, was awarded on January 22, 1982. Consultants for
construction supervision were assigned in April 1982. Efforts are being
made to improve both the progress for the work as well as coordination
between the implementing agencies.
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for water
users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD-s basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin and
detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: December 14, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project supported by the Bank to be
concentrated in a single province and implemented through a provincial irriga-
tion service. It will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about
13,000 ha; upgrade operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irriga-
tion systems already rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Given shortages in available land, in June 1982, the settlement
component was reduced from 30,000 families to 20,000 families and funds were
reallocated for site selection and evaluation for the GOI transmigration
program as a whole. Land has now been identified for about 16,000 families
under this project. About 1,100 families have been settled and 2,400 addi-
tional families should be settled by mid-1983. Improved extension and
support are required to ensure adequate food crop yields and a plan for the
introduction of tree crops has been requested from the GOI. Disbursements
as of February 1983 were 57% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This is the first of a series now consisting of seven projects
developing treecrops for smallholders, supported by Government Nucleus Estate



-40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
Companies. Planting programs for 7,600 ha of rubber at Tebenan and for
rehabilitation of 18,000 ha of estate rubber have been completed but develop-
ment for smallholders at Alue Ie Merah (only 4,700 ha out of a 7,000 ha pro-
gram completed) is well behind schedule. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. Difficulties have occured in quality of
rubber plantings, and currently with some trees now at maturity, attention
needs to be given to improving tapping practice and rubber processing.
Disbursements at December 31, 1982 were 62% of appraisal estimates and 92% of
the latest revised estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date:  September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31 1983
After a slow start, this project has substantially speeded up its
pace of implementation. New rubber planting for smallholders is now expected
to be completed in March 1983 in Jambi (3,800 ha), one year ahead of schedule,
and in 1983/84 in Riau (11,400 ha) on schedule. Following earlier problems,
quality of plantings has improved. Rulbber replanting at Riau (3,000 ha)
should also be completed during 1983/84 but the replanting component at Jambi
(4,500 ha) has not been successful. The 3,500 ha Nucleus Rubber Estate at
Riau although currently behind schedule is expected to be completed in time.
More attention needs to be given to development of smallholders food crops.
An extension of closing date to December 31, 1985, will probably be needed to
accommodate an alternative program to the replanting at Jambi. Disbursements
at end of December 1982 were 33% of the appraisal estimate but are expected to
improve in coming months.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under NES
I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about 53% of
appraisal estimate, and 90% of the latest revised estimates.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about
53% of appraisal estimate, and 64% of latest revised estimates.
,4 .



ANNTFX II
- 41 -                     Page 12 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Nilion Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Pate: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber,
oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, 1,7est
Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing
agents. The project has made a good start except that smallholder coconut
development at Cimerak, West Java (3,000 ha) is behind schedule due to land
use agreements needing to be finalized. The component to expand the Estates
.Training Institute at Yogyakarta and to add another campus at Medan is
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  868.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project will assist the GOT's nucleus estates and smallholders
development program by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and
coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The proJect
implementing agencies PNP XXVIII and PTP XII face problems regarding local
cost financing of smallholder development, management problems and severe
labor shortage problems in Seram. PTP XII has however completed a difficult
26 km main access road over a short period.  PNT XXVIII-s proiect implemen-
tation is seriously delayed by lack of experienced senior and middle manage-
ment, technical and administrative staff, labor cooperation and coordination
with local government. GOI has been requested to urgently review this situa-
tion with a view to strengthening management, relieve the labor constraint and
improve local government's commitment to the proiect. PTP XYIII has made an
excellent effort to overcome the land acquisition problems. Cooperation with
local government and the local population is good. Rubber planting commenced
in 1982 and standards attained are satisfactory. Planning and training
programs for technical and administrative staff are well in hand and no
serious problems are foreseen.
Loan No. 2232   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII:  $154.6 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983, Effective Pate: Nlot Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would assist the GOIs nucleus estates and smallhold-
ers (NES) development program by establishing about 59,000 ha of tree crops
(rubber and oil palm), food crops and house gardens in East and West
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces. It would also support the institu-
tional strengthening of the Directorate General of Estates and other agencies
a,ssociated with tree crop development, marketing programs for smallholders,
and provide funds for start-up activities of future NES pro4ects.



ANNEX II
- 42 -                     Page 13 of 29 pages
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project implementation continues in a generally satisfactory manner
with 17,300 ha of rubber planting (9% of appraisal target to that date)
undertaken by the end of December 1982. At that time, disbursements had
reached $9.8 million (85%) against an estimated $11.5 million. Although the
project currently faces no major problems, continuing tardy GOI budget
releases could soon become a critical factor. In order to ensure effective
continuing operations, project management is to strengthen Project Management
Units in some areas, undertake timely recruitment and training of staff at all
levels and produce appropriate training and extension manuals. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia and Agraria have been requested to play a more active role in-the
land titling and loan conversion process. Revised versions of four studies
under the project are now available and preparation of the proposed Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under the
project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are generally
not satisfactory. Problems relate to shortcoming in project management at
Head Office, Provincial Offices (POs) and Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating small-
holders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance stan-
dards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow release of
project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application and disburse-
ments.  At end-December 1982, 8,102 ha of hybrid coconuts (89% of appraisal
target to that date) and 7,770 ha of tall coconuts (155% of appraisal target)
had been planted while rehabilitation of 5,050 ha of tall coconuts (74% of
appraisal target) had been undertaken. An in-depth review is being undertaken
by the Resident Mission to ascertain progress already made by GOI in over-
coming management and technical shortcomings at Head Office, Provincial
Offices and Coconut Working Centers, and to pinpoint any necessary additional
measures. To improve control of field operations, some restructuring of
management is required as well as reduction and rationalization of the project
area. GOI agrees in principle with these recommendations. Disbursements had
reached $4.2 million (47%) against an estimated $9.0 million.



ANNEX II
- 43                       Page 14 of 29 pages
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Good progress continues to be made with the construction program
and the bulk of the Rural Extension Centers programmed under the project are
expected to be completed in 1983. Staff recruitment has improved overall
but there are still shortages in some Provinces and the problem of shortage
of motor cycles for field staff continues. Active steps are being taken to
improve extension in non-rice crops. Interest in working towards a unified
extension service continues to be promoted. The project is making satis-
factory progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the
overall institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is functioning
efficiently. Steady progress being made in civil works program although
there are indications that this may slow down due to budgetary constraints.
The fellowship program has fallen behind schedule but is likely to gain
momentum following the production of a Manpower Development Plan which is
nearing finalization. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Project implementation has
started slowly because the project implementing agencies are still reviewing
administrative and working procedures. Preparation of tender documents for
the procurement of equipment for seed is in hand. Participating agencies
show willingness to cooperate and project implementation is expected to
pick-up shortly.



_44                         ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance has continued.
Activity targets are now being substantially met with the exception of the
Small Scale Industries (SSI) and Village Health Components. The SSI is
being vigorously monitored by the new Provincial Inspector for Industries
especially with respect to technical assistance which is designed to
-complement the SSI credit program. The School Health Program is progressing
well and is now being complemented by the Village Kader Health program.
Severe drought has delayed the Water Supplies construction due to shortage
of water. The rigidity of GOI procurement regulations which do not permit
forward purchase of cement also contribute to the delay in construction of
tanks. The Roads Program is close to target achievement although high costs
are still a cause for concern.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's
small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account
for about a third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory
experience with this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a
nationwide SSE development project which is supported by the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is
fully disbursed, and the remaining balance of the technical assistance
component amounting to $9.0 million is financing ongoing technical
assistance under Loan 2011-IND (SEDP II).
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date:  November 3, 1978; Closing Date:  March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 small-
holders, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and
technical assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development,
training in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management
information systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy
services, the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following
extension of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it
is rapidly catching up. The project has been very successful in achieving
objectives.



ANNEX II
- 45 -                     Page 16 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has
expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment
(KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being
implemented. The Bank-financed portion of the credit component of SEDP II
was fully committed as of December 31, 1982, rapid expansion of lending
under the project, however, seems to have been accompanied by a slight
increase in arrears from 21% to 22% of outstanding loans. Bank Indonesia
(BI) and handling banks are aware of this problem and have recently
introduced a new reporting system to facilitate better collection and more
up-to-date information. BI's progress in implementing the technical
assistance components is also generally good, with the exception of the
Regional Development Bank upgrading. This latter component is still beset
with problems (lack of Regional Development Bank (RDB) counterpart staff,
delays in obtaining operational data, weak consultant teams from BAPINDO).
BI is evaluating consultant performance in the upgrading of RDBs. The
Ministry of Industry has finally started implementing the Technical Services
component with the recruitment of two consultants. As the entry of
consultants was delayed, disbursement of loan proceeds is also delayed.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies. The project is making
good progress and implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The
TEDC building and four of the six polytechnics have been completed and
construction of the remaining two is near completion. Equipment contracts
for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded and over 70% of
equipment ordered has been delivered. The expert services and fellowship
programs are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component is also
making good progress. Two of the five study contracts are still to be
awarded. Operation has commenced in all six polytechnics since September
1982 but at 60% of full capacity. Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were over 100% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing



ANNEX II
- 46 -                    Page 17 of 29 pages
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country-s
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of February 1983 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88% of
the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90% of
the construction in Phase II is finished. All furniture has been procured
and installed; all equipment has either been procured and delivered, or
contracts awarded and deliveries would be completed before closing date.
Training courses for teachers and staff of SPGs and IKIPs have been comple-
ted. A total of 6,100 persons have been trained. Project costs at comple-
tion are expected to result in $2 million savings. Book procurement has
been delayed due to ministerial procurement review procedures. This delay
is expected to result in a need to extend the closing date by one year.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial cen-
ters, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school educa-
tion) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are already
on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal
targets and production and distribution of pretested learning materials is



- 47 -                     ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff
have replaced foreign consultants. As of October 1982 estimated cumulative
disbursements had reached a total of $10.1 million or 67% of appraisal
estimates. Of the remaining loan funds it is estimated that US$5.45 million
will be disbursed by June 30, 1983, the project closing date. Approximately
$254,000 from unallocated category remains uncommitted.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOIs long-term
strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. Good progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of
February 1983 were 68% of the loan amount. The overall progress of the
fellowships program has been good. The regular program and the short course
program would be completed in December 1983 and the Ph.D. program at the
University of Sam Houston, Texas, is exDected to be completed in June 1985.
Progress in achieving educational objectives is generally satisfactory. In
December 1982 the Bank agreed to the GOI's request to reallocate $4.2 mil-
lion for preparatory studies and design work for the proposed Third
Agricultural Training Project, and $2.8 million for improvement of Ketindam
In-service Teacher Training Center (ISTC), additional boarding facilities at
17 existing ISTCs and upgrading the Ciawi ISTC.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university develop-
ment program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level
manpower and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia (UI) has
been completed and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected
to complete theirs by early 1983. The implementation of technical assist-
ance provisions is about 22 months behind appraisal schedule. Pending the
appointment of MUCIA to handle the fellowship program, the Directorate
General of Higher Education has administered overseas fellowships, which as
of December 31, 1982, totalled about 90 staff in the UK, USA, Australia,
Belgium, Thailand and the Philippines. Training of master trainers in
University Management and textbook editors is in progress in the UK; domes-
tic training in University Management is scheduled to start in April 1983
after the return of master trainers. Work is in progress for establishing a
Management Information System in the DGHE and in each project university.
Plans are being finalized for the policy study on student admissions.
Disbursements as of December 1982 were 40% of the appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
- 48 -                       Page 19 of 31 pages
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project would (a) construct and equip 60 preservice primary
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and 10 primary sports teacher train-
ing schools (SGO); (b) construct and equip 11 secondary teacher training
colleges (IKIP); (c) improve and expand teacher training colleges for
special education (SGPLB); (d) improve and expand inservice teacher training
facilities (PPPG and BPG); and (e) establish a Center for Educational Adminis-
tration (CEA).
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project (ITP), a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; a Center for Curriculum Development (CCD), which
would develop improved curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an
improved national distribution system for all textbooks for primary and
secondary schools. The implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily. The site of ITP/CCD office building has been acquired. Selec-
tion and acquisition of sites for regional warehouses and depots is in
progress. Consulting architects and engineers have been appointed. Staff
appointments at ITP are slightly behind schedule. Efforts are underway to
implement a program of overseas training of staff contract managerial
services for providing consultants and arranging foreign and local training
programs.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in corn-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
original loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to
the inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the



ANNEX II
- 49 -                       Page 20 of 29 pages
project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of
location of future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information
system design. Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21
months. Commercial operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected
early in 1984. Construction of the associated transmission lines is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.  The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has been completed and a site has been selected.
Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed,
and work is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Ioan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since
then has been satisfactory and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1
continues to be October 1984.  Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in
July 1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date:  October 24, 1980;  Closing Date:  September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e.
six months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year
due to delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts about 12-18
months behind SAR schedule, have been awarded and construction work has
commenced. The commissioning of the lines is currently scheduled in
Decemiber 1984.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date:  April 23, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generat-
ing equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been
placed with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.
Construction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encoun-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels.
However, the river diversion was accomplished in January 1983. The contruc-
tion program has been modified to ensure that original dam construction
targets are met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with about
6 months delays.



ANNEX II
- 50 -                    Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 3C, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Corr-
tracts worth about $119 million have already been evaluated and approved by
the Bank.  PLN has already issued another invitation to bid for the balance
of the distribution equipment estimated at $44 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982, Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced.  There are some delays in
signing of main nine contracts. Out of a total of eight such contracts,
five have already been signed and the remaining three are in final stages.
The consultants- performance is satisfactory. Soil investigation and
geological work is ongoing at the mine site. Although the turnkey contract
for the Tarahan terminal was signed it is still not effective. The Tarahan
Terminal remains on the project critical path and the best estimate is that
the first coal can be shipped to Suralaya by April 1985 which implies an
8-month delay. During the initial start-up there were moderate problems in
respect to project management ane concerns arose with respect to the
procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the Bank. These
matters received close attention from the Bank missions and the issue has
now been resolved. Indonesia's constrained budget situation is likely to
result in a substantial shortfall of funds for this project in FY83/84 and
discussions with GOI are underway to determine how project construction can
be rephased without a substantial loss of anticipated benefits.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: March 1, V'q83; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South and West Sumatra and other promising
areas in Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its
agencies with a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling
it to establish investment priorities and define policies for its short,
medium- and long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
Loan No. 2214   Twelfth Power Project:  $300 Million Loan of December 27,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts valued at $36 million have already been approved by the Bank. PLN
has already issued bid invitation for Kamojang 2 x 55 MW units and bids



ANNEX II
- 51 -                       Page 22 of 29 pages
are due to open on May 2, 1983. PLN is planning to issue another bid invi-
tation in May 1983 for the mini-hydro equipments. PLN has also issued bid
invitations for Suralaya Unit 3 boiler and turbine generator and bids are
due to open in June 1983.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industry
Loan No. 2199   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering:  $5.5 Million
Loan of November 18, 1982; Effective Date: May 2, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project would help finance the cost of: (i) basic engineer-
ing, procurement assistance including the preparation of tender documents,
preaualification, and hid evaluiation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the wood supply arrange-
ments for the Central Java project; (iii) training of the project staff; and
(iv) a pulp and paper subisector study which would provide the basis for the
restructuring of the industry.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO has made good progress in committing proceeds of the Bank
loan and in implementing its General Improvement Program launched in 1981.
Judged on the basis of annual growth in lending operations (147% in 1981
compared with 89% in 1980) it appears the effect of major changes in
organizational structure has been positive, but there is still some scope
for improvements in term lending procedures and staff capbility to appraise
and supervise larger, more complex projects. Term lending in local and
foreign currency reached Rp 559 billion ($800 million) in 1982 or 43% over
1981. Strong investment demand from the industrial sector in 1982 underlies
this sharp expansion. Full disbursement by the closing date of September
1983 is expected.



-52 -                      ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 nages
POPULATION AND HEALTH
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
($3.8 Million cancelled February 25, 1983); Effective
Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30, 1984
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory. About 90% of
original project activities have been completed. The mobile service units
provided under the project are making a significant contribution to the
recruitment of contraceptive acceptors. Training and population education
are substantially completed. The research components -the contraceptive raw
materials study is about 90% complete, and the community incentive scheme is
about 50% complete and both components should be satisfactorily completed
before the revised closing date of April 30, 1984. As of February 1983,
disbursements totalled $13.3 million, or 54%.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on this project improved significantly during the second
half of 1982, largely due to increased attention to project implementation,
particularly civil works components, by project management and the addi-
tional staff assigned especially to help expedite this work. Population
education has made some encouraging progress, as funds have been released to
the provinces for expenditure on teacher training activities and detailed
guidelines for implementation of population education activities have been
issued by NFPCB. Contracts for procurement of audio-visual equipment have
been awarded. The training of nurses, midwives, traditional birth atten-
dants and health center staff has proceeded on the agreed-upon schedule.
Disbursements, however, do not yet reflect the noted upswing in project
activities.
Health
Loan No. 2235 Provincial Health; $27 Million Loan of February 18, 1983;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
Substantial progress has been made in the initial implementation
of the project. The FY83/84 project budget of US$10.5 million and work plan
have been completed and approved by BAPPENAS. The sites for the first-year
construction program are available and the architectural consultants have
completed the preliminary drawings for two hospitals. Consultants (financed



- 53 -                        ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
by USAID) are now assisting in curriculum development and the training of
trainers in support of the project. Arrangements for the procurement of DDT
have been initiated and malaria consultants have already been identified and
their availability ascertained.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
There still remains an uncommitted balance of about $5.0 million
under this credit. Potential studies to utilize the remaining balance have
been identified and it is likely that the closing date for the credit will
be postponed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the
cartographic photographic processing, including color photo processing
equipment and printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed.
Computer equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank
and flatbed plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation
activities have been undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and
training of new staff, particularly at junior and middle level has recently
been accelerated. The new photography operation financed under the parallel
Canadian Project was delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started
in July 1981 is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia
by substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport pro-
jects, including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
The project experienced delays in its start up phase. In particular, one of



ANNEX II
- 54 -                        Page 25 of 29 pages
the conditions for loan effectiveness was fulfilled with considerable delay,
thus delaying project implementation by six months. However, PUSRI has
taken steps to expedite project implementation although an extension of
project completion by six months is likely. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by about 10%-15%.
Highways
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
still behind schedule. The project is about 40% completed compared to 75%
scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project objectives,
which translate into program-type components and numerous consultancies; (b)
organization and management problems in the provincial highway agencies; and
(c) new development guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the
spread of investments over a larger number of projects with reduced stand-
ards. However, work is now underway on nearly all project components, and
there is still a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total
delay of about one year. The Prov4ncial Departments of Public Works
programs of support works were started in January 1982 with mobilization of
consultants, and after road maintenance equipment had been ordered.
$6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to misprocurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The project is about 3 months behind schedule.
Consequently, disbursements are likely to fall behind estimated disbursement
schedule, at least during the first one or two years.



ANNEX II
- 55 -                        Page 26 of 29 pages
Loan Nbo. 2083  Rural Roads Development:  $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date:  August 11, 1982.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works
agencies, implementing an expanded program of rural roads works, and
supporting a rural road development program for a three-year period in five
Indonesian provinces. The project also contains components for training and
technical assistance. Construction of some workshops has begun. Contracts
for all works equipment have been awarded. Progress under the project is
hampered by inadequate organizational arrangements and shortages of qualified
staff. Consequently disbursements have fallen behind appraisal estimates.
The next supervision mission will review with GOI actions required to
improve the rate of progress.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is part of the first phase of the Gbvernment's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of funds for
technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allocated. It is
expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date. The project
is essentially completed.
Po rts
Loan No. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works under the project have been successfully comple-
ted. All of the equipment has been procured and installed and is fully
operational. As a result of the investments under the project, Tanjung
Priok Port's performance has improved dramatically. Technical assistance,
amounting to $4.7 million is being used to finance consultant services for
preparation of the proposed Maritime Sector Development Program. The loan
is expected to close by June 30, 1983.



-56 -                          ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
TOURISM
Credit No. 479   Bali Tourism:  $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
($1.4 million cancelled October 31, 1982); Effective
Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Infrastructure work at Nusa Dua has been substantially completed.
The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpassar bypass road
were completed and opened for traffic in December 1980. The hotel training
school was completed in July 1979 and has been in operation since then. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progress-
ing well with first phase completed in December 1982. Negotiations have
been concluded with Club Med for a hotel investment with the Bali Tourism
Development Corporation (BTDC) equity participation of $0.4 million. Out of
the total credit of $16.0 million, $1.4 million has been cancelled but
disbursements will continue up to December 31, 1983 against BTDC commitment
of $0.4 million for Club Med.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976;  Effective Date:  March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surahaya. The physical program has been completed with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future project preparation are
currently in progress.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in
each city ranging between 15 to 37X of total kampung areas to be upgraded.
Also included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management
program (SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in
Surabaya. The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its
actual coverage exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP



_ 57 _                    ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
implementation is progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in
Jakarta due to earlier start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya
drainage component which was beset with land acquisition problems (for canal
dredging schemes) is now progressing satisfactorily. The overall project is
expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected date of December
31, 1934. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 65% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972    Fourth Urban Development:  $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981;  Effective Date:  September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank-s assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide
provincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with
a coverage in each city representing about 15% to 33% of total KIP area to be
upgraded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core
housing units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of
about 11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs compris-
ing solid waste improvement and improved water supply, are also included in
one of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering
125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning,
land registration and valuation programs. The development of the housing
and mortgage financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project.
Technical assistance for project management, training and feasibility
studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The
sites and services program is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays
in the implementation of the KIP programs have been overcome and the pro-
gress of these programs has significantly improved with the consultants
appointments. All technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 33% of appraisal
estimate.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of
transmission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house



- 58 -                        ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and deliveries are in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is also underway. The organiza-
tional and management training for the WEs has been underway since September
1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of March
1983 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2236    Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation; $22.4 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983; Effective Date: Not yet effective:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in
Jakarta and complements the public health measures carried out under
previous Bank-assisted urban development projects. Its principal objectives
are to (a) improve environmental conditions and public health, (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management
of the Jakarta sewerage system and (c) demonstrate the feasibility of
appropriate low-cost technologies. The project covers sewerage and sanita-
tion improvements including (a) a basic water-borne sewerage system;
(b) drainage improvements; (c) sanitation improvements; (d) staff training
and fellowships; and (e) consulting services for project implementation and
for technical institutional and financial studies and the preparation of
future projects. Steps have been taken to establish the appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation, terms of reference
for the engagement of consultants have been agreed, and steps have been
taken for procurement by ICB of pipes.



ANNEX III
- 59-
INDONESIA
THIRTEENTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:                    PLN with Bank and
consultant assistance
(c)  First presented to the Bank:            June 1980
(d)  Departure of the Appraisial Mission:  December 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:             April 1983
(f)  Planned Effectiveness:                  September 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
GOI will continue to:
(a) carry out an environmental/resettlement Plan of Action satisfac-
tory to the Bank (para. 63);
(b) monitor closely resettlement and environmental activities
(para. 63); and
(c) furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on the progress and imple-
mentation of the'Plan of Action and other aspects related to
resettlement and environmental activities (para. 63).
PLN will:
(a) complete by December 31, 1983 a study of its cost and tariff
structure which would better reflect LRMC; design, after consul-
tation with GOI and the Bank, a new tariff structure by March
1984, and thereafter implement the appropriate recommendations and
update its analysis of LRMC annually (para. 38);
(b) retain consultants, including the special board of consultants,
for the period of project construction (para. 54); and
(c) prepare programs of periodical inspection and maintenance of the
project works and implement them (para. 55).



I
I



T_ _ _   I       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _____            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ ________                                                              IB R D   16563R
_______   -   ________________---                                                                            -                                                                                       NOVEMBER    1982~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N VE 13 R   98
5                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~110                                12
105°                                                          10f°0                                                           51                                                              1 12
INDONESIA
This -sp has bsen prepared by the World s-k'h stsff eno/ooise/y for the .oieoeoie
SUMATERA            ~~~~f the reder of the reott mhioh 'tie alttehed. The denoei-ti,,oo sed sod the,
SU MATE (IA /                f dr                   od o ml nttPto ran nosmnrT H IR T EEN,TH   POWE R   PROJEC T
hooond-e s hown on this map do, not imply, so the psn of the World Reek end itsRT E                                                                                                 T        P    W      R     PR      J C
efhhsees, sy jodymet so the legal tets steer tesotory orsy endorsemet or                                                                                                    JAVA         P     W     R     SYSTEM
ast-epeesa sf-suh boondn-es
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
EXISTING AND PROPOSED
r~ '0  .'                                                                                                                                                             POWER  SUBSTATIONS TRANSMiSSION LINES
-\l    Suralayi                                                                                                                                        STATIONS    EHV  1S0KV                EHVV       10sKV
L  ~~~~<.                           JAKARTA                                                                                                                                U          S aEXISTING
\6° Krokatau StoeaI4                                                                               lt                                                                                                                                   K "; ',  a  S * t  --- ---- iJUNDER CONSTRUCTION/COMMITTED FOR
,'Cilegon18f0                              ,                           .  .                                                                                                                                    COMPLETION   BY 1987
9         -        3          e        lalig - ,//>5Kujang                                                                                                                                                FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
I intom  >%bi                                                                                                                                                              '  i < PROPO SED PROJECTS
See inset map                CIra     Pojooc  Are                                                                                                                                                    XII       PLN'S WILAYAH   NUMBERS
J00 -0000 SeinemopT   -      i lrato. _ Jatiluhur                                                                                                                                                              WILAYAH  OR  DISTRIBUSI HEADQUARTERS
Sa"'  /i  o  Padarang,                                                                                                                                                            PLN'S  WILAYAH  BOUNDARIES
I   ('          ,---                                                    00C                          SonyaragalCpreboo)n                         SEMARANG               toootomap    -Prqbang,-
Ciao/er ~   ~        jugbrui                         -kaloganb                                                                              Prtag,
'--,T jA A Bandung                                                     TB  r |                                                                                               SURABAYA
,   XI1ESN'.TAV /t          Kamnoloog                  /                 C ('klE'l'lRAL. JAVA                                            \ Blara(/             ' . Tubaoi`
GarLit                                                                                                          Ba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CoeRbot  ,Bangkala/-               Soimenep
GaTostk| \ Maung/oYGarung 5 ; Cepu',-'                 u,        ' Babat ,e-'                                                                                     S Maoura/kHle
|  Tastkmalaya     ,        \.  Purwokerto              Mnca                           Sti                                                                                 Ram pat
I                  ~~~~~~Mr/co  j--.               0at00             Com-bo            AT V  IA  /A                            S.Middura    - -Pamnekaean
LJAKARTA              106°                                                                                .a                                   Purworp  i                                           M adiur,
i   _7 'Ygakra  ....... W7.... -                                                                                            -¾
___________7_                                                                                      b.qlTBongil                                                                                                                                               70L
Lot i/at 019       Angke                              'sa5                                                                                       Yagakerte                       Wonogn                               'oedir /  '-                  ProboKooinggol(rokeao             S/tnboodo
Karorlii 01 lTaojoeo                   SEMARANG                                                                                                             J                                                         M ,/og       ee                                Ato  bo got
nProk  .-_                        ___.
Knsarnb         /(              I u pang                                                  ,'Jepara                SURABAYA                 1as                             ' 1                        Wlingiti/. Bondoweso
Tartgorottg j,'E                                                                                 ,   JoPola  3o/told  \  .'                                                                                                    Karangkates              1                Po/lon
Serpon/I.                                                                                                                                           Canlin- 
-oiosoo Seo/tno,l P u                                                                                                                                                                                  - - |  i   Ca  .  .  ,          Jembei         Bariyuwangi
PehAnoan   A                                          /Hankam S.Harbour Demak                                    Petrokimio ,
-0ganoko                                                           S.Harbour      -                                                          rnSP           I
Srnaraans    r      East Semarang                                   toto Perak
Welesri                                                                              de     Pea
Cibirlns9g                       Jattga-Kej oran                                                                                                              0              50            100           150
Ungr/ \\                                                                                                                          2      KILOMETERS
Ungoian                                 Kr/oK            > Wors /~Kria
/t  iingarar \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sko.<.....t- kilo.. ...... 0                                                                            20       40    eo        .,          I_L_
Mojokerto                                                                                   48        So       80 \14
Bogor                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Je/ok                                                                                                             M I LES
_____  //                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1120                    1 l4 0



I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 16802
_7W 1007'3                                                                                                      rNOVEMBER 1N2
This map has been prepared by the
World Banks staff erclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it is attached
The denomntations used and the
boundaries shown on this map
do -ot mplty, so the part of the                                                         Jt2  'C       U  96Y
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorse-ent
or acceptance of such boundaries.                              )
61W                                                                                                                                                                       sow- U    am Sttso~(  A
Sungaibuntu ~  ~        ~       ~        Smean
CANA     SEONAR  CNA
~~/4                                     IRRGAO  SERIC  ARE
IR IGATON ESTUYAREASLVGAI                                           L         '-tVCmhA _NUG
DAM  AND  RESERVO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR Under Conswsrcton/ or P,opoed  -          1 1Yit3
SWAMPS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DIJ.        POWER PLANTS (Undr C str                 or P
v  WEIRS~~~~~~~~~At                                        WI
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                                                                          SAIN CANALS
-SE  -   ROICIA OUNDARY                                   C             AN                          AL                                     o4r
IILOIGTERSN STUDY AESP
MIES                                   15 -0 DA2N5EEROREitig                                                 .
' -    RA I LWAYS                                                      > .        G donor |    ',~~TA D
MILES~~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                                                      medan1  2   2
INDON ESI                                                 -LBNDN



4



IBRD 16750R
Th0m0phasr m0r0p0rodh3     107016                                              107"20                                                                        A SRYR   1
Bkes #SUMATRA    -
C0000000,,000    ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          JA~~~KARTA
ull h0,m00dOno, m0b on0e'%?                                     Ja hs/t'b.r ,%s er  o fr-                                    2       =                _ 3
Coopo hrwdrd ,.ooo                ts L  .  JA VA ..... .
ooooa00oos                                                                                     S   . Asooopso             iZ51AN ofEAo
T, Pu wakO.r    107°25
6°40                                                    ,     ,-<         <        daseCmp          ; 1r S t '8e        %)              t                        6040
: m15                 V                                                                 A                       /   G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~045
°- Bo-z c-'A
T o B o h D  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 0500g
vv   X                 ~~~~~~~INDONESIA                                                                                                            TOpta  O Todndo
THIRTEENTH POWER PROJECT        .
'     CIRATA  AND SAGUllNG                                 -;RifrNndo1o'-
HYDROELECTRIC PROJECTS                                                     '
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 8-rt\
*                 ~~~Proposed  Under ConstruJctiOn    Exksting                                 .         - ,zwi yr  
0g00J                DAMs ApND RESERVOIRS                        \          .                                                       l
TRANSMISSION LINES                                                                                           -
~4 - 500 kV                                        ~0s40000t0-
20k Rd/                                               SagUf//ng  4 s tf
RROADS                      10                         00   2dsevo,                -c-' .)A¢ eFf    oi,    - -t
P-P0.d  Ude, C-,t-tio,    Existi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ -.5,g
D---AMLAS AND..RESERVOIRS.
-6°55             Kilorneters 0    10   20   30                                               DAM         X    <'0.0                            -  -. 2o          S°55
Miles  rFFT           ~      T                                                                                                              t ip,
0   5   10  15  20                     1                                00°0 V                            .,.






IBRD 16751R
FEBRUAR 1983
INDONESIA
THIRTEENTH POWER PROJECT
CIRATA  HYDROELECTRIC  PROJECT                                                                                       PROJECT:
GENERAL SITE LAYOUT                                                                      -        roasdssLines
Disposal Areas
Tunnels
Bridges
Cirota Reservoir
f}~~   Ma n rr>ns>           f ro CW"agkap
Rivers
a     &      S., Y..-r-r                           °                                Contours, in meters
V
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~a'
f - i~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                                ;                 
7-J                                                                                                              - i
Dispo-IL Area
2A                                                         /
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
/ 7Mai,, Bae Camp
o0      @ -1-0. KAU5iANTN157 S 
SUMATRA                                          -                                      METERS
-  N  D  O  N  E S I A                               0          250       soo        750       )000                                  To Re,deh
+   Jakarta                          i                   I_         I         I...                  I..
L_V       BAL      SUMBA                    rrre,rerir. rrriri,E- iii -h iV i rirrr   irrl ' iesru irr ieiipOShr   B p i,riririr irrr
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rp   nrii di Pr ar  nrO csyiia tn  riMBp ,ronrreSSSsarrr p, a rlJonardaOtnt i rnac co orrrr,p,aw r m
rio   ,<            rrpli                         m       __           _         



