OFFICIAL
onr'UNIENTS    LOAN NUMBER 2300 IND
Project Agreement
(Thirteenth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
Dated                      C, 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2300 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 0?         , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR VECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (here-
inafter called PLN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
seventy-nine million dollars ($279,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that PLN agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PLN, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
PLN on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN shall carry out the Project, described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and public utility practices.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. In order to assist PLN in carrying out the
Project, PLN shall employ, or continue to employ, consultants and
specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981, including a specialist in construction of hydroelectric
works, a civil works contract specialist, and consultants for
supervision of construction.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by PLN to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PLN shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents,


﻿- 3 -
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by PLN of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
PLN, PLN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by PLN and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) PLN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PLN and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. PLN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PLN shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PLN shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, including the effectiveness of the construction organi-
zation for the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   PLN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PLN of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿Section 2.08. (a) PLN shall, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank, cause the dam constructed under Part A of the Proj-
ect to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engi-
neering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of the structures, or in the
quality or adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of
the same, which may endanger their safety. To this end PLN shall
propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for the Bank's
review no later than one year before the expected completion of
such structures.
(b) PLN shall ensure that the Board of Consultants estab-
lished in connection with the carrying out of the Tenth Power
Project (Loan Agreement dated March 6, 1981 between the Borrower
and the Bank) shall continue to supervise the dam works included
in Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement throughout the construction stage.
Section 2.09. PLN shall before the completion of Part A of
the Project, prepare a program of maintenance of the project
works, satisfactory to the Bank, and PLN shall implement such
program throughout the operational period of Part A of the
Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01. PLN shall at all times manage its affairs,
improve its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry out its operations all in accordance with sound engineer-
ing, administrative, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other pro-
perties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necesary or useful in carrying out the Project or in the
conduct of its business.
(b) PLN shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment and other property, and promptly as


﻿- 5 -
required, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with respons-
ible  insurers, or   make   other  provisions,  including  self-
insurance, satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04. PLN shall: (i) take steps to improve the capa-
bility of its power market survey units at Pusat and Wilayah
levels to update the various existing consultant studies and to
compile necessary data for the islands other than Java; and (ii)
improve its central system planning unit at Pusat level to iden-
tify potential system bottlenecks in advance and to ensure that
its power systems continue to be adequate to meet the increasing
demand.
Section 3.05. (a) PLN shall carry out Part A of the Project
under the supervision of General Manager (Hydroprojects West
Java) through the Project Manager (Cirata) who shall be responsi-
ble for the implementation plan of the Project, the cost estimat-
ing and expenditure controls and forecasting and monitoring all
disbursements on loans for the Project, and makinAg Rupiah pay-
ments to contractors with respect to the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the above, PLN shall ensure that
the Project Manager (Cirata) is adequately trained for, and
assisted in, carrying out his responsibilities under Part A of
the Project.
Section 3.06. In order to ensure a steady increase in its
share of electricity supply from fiscal year 1983/84 to fiscal
year 1988/89, PLN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank annually,
for its review, PLN's customer connection program for each fiscal
year and shall implement such program thereafter.
Section 3.07. Not later than December 31, 1983, PLN shall
prepare and forward to the Bank for its review and comment,   an
adequate training program for its senior technical staff


﻿- 6 -
(including, as may be appropriate, training assistance provided
by or in overseas electricity companies), and promptly thereafter
initiate said training program in consultation with the Bank.
Section 3.08. PLN shall, by December 31, 1983, complete a
study of its cost and tariff structure which will better reflect
the long-run marginal cost of electricity supply (including peak
hour characteristics).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements of PLN, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PLN shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of PLN shows that the projected
internal cash generation of PLN for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
projected debt service requirement of PLN in such year on all
debt of PLN including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:


﻿- 7 -
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PLN maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or further modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guar-
antee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into.
(c) The term "internal cash generation of PLN" means gross
revenues of PLN from all sources, adjusted to take account of the
PLN's tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the twelve-month
period to which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses
of the PLN, including expenses accountable to administration,
maintenance and taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before
provision for depreciation of assets and interest and other
charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(e)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast pre-
pared by PLN in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
to be incurred, which both the Bank and PLN accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified PLN of its acceptability,
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a mate-
rial adverse effect on the financial condition or future operat-
ing results of PLN.
(f) The term "capital expenditures" means any expenditure
incurred on account of fixed or capital assets, including
interest charged to construction.
(g) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(i) the sum of gross revenues, cash consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net
non-operating income, and any other cash
inflows other than funds for financing
capital expenditures; and


﻿-8-
(ii) the sum of all expenses of operation, includ-
ing maintenance and administration (excluding
depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges), interest and other charges on debt
(excluding interest financed under a loan
contract), repayment of loans (including
sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or
payments in lieu of taxes, all cash distribu-
tions of surplus, and any other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(h) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, with absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. PLN shall, as part of its on-going annual
planning procedures: (i) prepare a ten-year financial forecast
based on its proposed development plan; (ii) test each proposed
development plan for financial feasibility; (iii) develop a
financing plan covering the first five years of the forecast
period which will specify the quantum of external funding and the
appropriate mix of equity and debt, and, to the extent possible,
identify potential financial sources; and (iv) ensure that its
recommended development plan and associated financial forecast
and financing plan are jointly reviewed and adopted by its Board
and that such plans and forecasts will be furnished to and dis-
cussed with the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN
shall from time to time take all such measures as shall be
required to produce, during consecutive three-year periods from
its fiscal years 1982/83 through 1984/85, funds from its internal
sources as contribution to the capital expenditures at such
levels as shall be agreed with the Bank, and for periods from
fiscal year 1985/86 and thereafter, the level of such funds shall
be equivalent to not less than 20% of its capital expenditures.
For the purposes of this Section the terms "capital expenditures"
and "funds from internal sources" have the meanings set out in
Section 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
4.03(h) shall apply as if set forth herein.


﻿-9-
Section 4.06. Sections 4.03, 4.05 and 4.06 of the Project
Agreements (Seventh Power Project) dated February 3, 1978, the
Project Agreement (Eighth Power Project) dated June 1, 1979, the
Project Agreement (Ninth Power Project) dated June 13, 1980, the
Project Agreement (Tenth Power Project) dated March 6, 1981, the
Project Agreement (Eleventh Power Project) dated November 16,
1981, and Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement (Twelfth Power
Project) dated December 27, 1982, each between the Bank and PLN,
are respectively amended to read as Section 4.03 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify PLN thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Jl. Trunojoyo
Blok MI No. 135
Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta Selatan
Indonesia
Cable Address:                    Telex:
PLNPST                           47156 PLNPST IA
Jakarta                           47248 PLNPST IA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PLN may be taken or executed by the
President Director of PLN or such other person or persons as the
President Director of PLN shall designate in writing, and PLN
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 11 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PLN shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. PLN shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding; (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 13 -
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such   goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the


﻿- 14 -
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for minor civil works, such as, site preparation,
road relocation and miscellaneous environment related works may
be procured in accordance with the Borrower's local competitive
bidding procedures in effect as of the date of this Agreement.
2.   Goods for Part C of the .Project, and insurance, may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's local procedures in
effect as of the date of this Agreement; provided that the
aggregate amount of goods so procured shall not exceed $500,000
equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. PLN shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-
qualification shall be furnished by PLN to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified of PLN's decision,
and PLN shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
catio) - in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of


﻿- 15 -
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification, or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, PLN shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the propo-
sal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement,
shall promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for its deter-
mination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of __      98    .
FOR StCRETARY


