Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICRO)FICHE COPY                                      Report No. 9781-CO
Report No. 9781-CO Type: (SAR)
HATES, A   / X38648 / I-5132/ LA31E
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1992
Department III
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
{ This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztdon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso
$Col - UScent 0.16
US$1.00 - $Col 630
(as of February 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 gallon - 3.785 liters
1 mile    =  1.613 km
1 pound      0.453 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
COLPUERTOS              Colombian Port Authority
DGA                     General Directorate of Customs
DDC                     Directorate of Highways
DNYP                    Directorate of Navigation and Ports
DNP                     National Planning Department
FERROVIAS               Rail Infrastructure Corporation
FNC                     National Railways of Colombia (in liquidation)
FNCV                    National Fund for Rural Roads
FVN                     National Highway Fund
INTRA                   National Transport Institute
INDERENA                National Environmental Agency
MOPT                    Ministry of Public Works and Transport
ODP                     Planning Office (within MOPT)
STF                     Rail Transport Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBI1
THIRD NATIONAL ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   .      .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  . . . . . . . . .   1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   a . . . .        3
A.   General      . .  ....... ............. ......  .  .  ...........    3
B.   Institutional Setup   . .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
C. Highways .               . . . . .. . . . .  4
(a) The Network..                                 . ... .    4
(b)  Highway Administration      ....                .  .           5
(c)  Road Maintenan..oe   .       .              .   .   .   . .   6
(d)  Construction Industry.....                          .  .       8
(e)  Highway Planning and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
(f)  Budget Revenues and Expenditures   . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
(g)  Fuel Prices and User Charges   . . . . . . . . . ..         . . 10
(h)  Trucking Industry  ......... . . . .  .   .   .               11
(i)  Traffic Counts and Axle Loads  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
D.   Railways  . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  12
E.   Ports   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
F.  River Transport..                           . .  . . . . # . . .  14
G. Shipping . .                       .... . .. . . 15
H.   Intermodal Facilitation   ...........                . . .   . .   15
:II.  PAST BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . .   16
IV. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . ..             .  . ...        . . .    19
A.   Justification    . . . . .  . . . . . . . ..    .  . . .   . . . .   19
B.   Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . .    .        .  . . .  . . .  20
C.   Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   . . . .  20
(a)  Highway Rehabilitation   .......  .. .   .   . . . . .    20
(b) Bridges ...   ..  .... . . . .                           .  21
(c)  River Training and River Ports    .       .  .  .  . . . .   21
The report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Colombia
in June 1991. The mission comprised Messrs. Amnon Mates, Task Manager and
Economist, Jos6 Maria Alonso-Biarge and Jos6 Luis Irigoyen, Engineers, Philip
Hazelton, Environmental Specialist and Alan Harding, Consultant/Engineer.
Peer review was provided by Messrs. John Flora and William Paterson (technical
issues). The report was prepared under the supervision of Mr. Graham Smith,
Division Chief, and Mr. Yoshiaki Abe, Director. Ms. Silvia Delgado assisted
in its production.
This documnent has a8restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their c -ial duties. Its contents nmay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)                                                    Page No.
(d)  Equipment  . . . . . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
(e)  Road Safety  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           a .    a a a .  22
(f)  Technical Assistance   ....... .. . .. .. .. .  .   23
(g)  Studies       . . .    .  .  . . . .  . .         .  a .              24
(h)  Training   . .                            ...  . . . ..    .  a a a a   25
D.   Project Costs and Financing   * * a a.*.a....       a.. a.a.    .a.a       25
E.   Economic Evaluation   . . a . a .  . . . .  . .  a . . .   . . .. . .   27
(a)    Roads               .a .a... .                   . ....... . .  .  27
(b)  Bridges  . . . . a . . .a.  . .  . . .   . .a.  .  . .a. . . . .     29
(c)  River Training   . . a a        .  .  .   .   a a a .   . a a . .    29
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            30
A.   Project Execution   . a . . . . .   a .  .            .a   . a a . .  .   30
(a)  General  .. .a . .a ..a   . a .a.a .. . .   . .a. a  . . a a   . .   30
(b)  Project Monitoring        . .a.   a . . . . . . . .   .   a.  a ..   30
(c)  Project Implementation Unit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
(d)  Civil Works  . . a . a a . . a . . . a    a a   . . a a .  .   31
(i)  Roads   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
(ii) Bridges   . . . . . . . . a . . . a   a  . . . a a . a   33
(iii)  River Training  a.    .          .  .  . . . . . . . . a. . . .   33
(e)  Road Maintenance   a a a .a a. . . . . . . . . . . . a a a           33
(f)  Equipment   .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
(g)  Road Safety  a a a . . .  a a a .a a   .. .     .  . ..a.a. a a   .   34
B.   Procurement   . . . a a a ......   a a....  .  a . a a                     34
C.   Disbursements   . . . . . . a   . . . . . . . a     . . . . . . . . .   36
D.   Audits    a   a   .   a   a  .   a  a  a   a   a  .  a  a   a   a  a  a   .   a   a  a   a  a   a  a   a   a  36
E.   Monitoring  a a a a a a . a a a a a a . . a a . . a . . a a . a   37
F.   Environmental Impact  a a a a a a a a a a a . a a                          37
G.   Project Risks   a   a a a a a .   a a a a a a a a                          38
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
A.   Agreements Reached  t a a a a a a a a                                      39
B.   Recommendation  a . a a a . a a a                                          42
HAP
IBRD 23034R



COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROAD 3ECTOR PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowert      National Highway Fund.
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia
Amount:         US$266.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          17 years with 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Oblectives:    (a) reduce cost of transport, especially long-distance export-
import traffic; (b) improve project preparation capacity
within the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) and
planning and implementation of rolling five-year investment
plans; (c) improve road maintenance planning and practices;
(d) rationalize the structure of MOPT; (e) provide a smooth
transfer of part of the national road system to the autonomous
regional governments ("departments"); and (f) improve the
environmental management of MOPT.
Project
Descrintion:   The project finances a share of the five-year (1991-95) road
investment program including: (i) completion of about 2,000 km
of roads started under the prior Bank loan or with NOPT's own
funds; (ii) twelve new road projects totalling about 400 km;
(iii) a bridge rehabilitation program; (iv) a river training
and dredging program; (v) equipment purchases and
rehabilitation; (vi) road safety works; and (vii) technical
assistance, studies and training in the areas of organization
and management, road engineering, road maintenance, management
information, supervision of works, and environmental control.
Project
Benefits;       The project will result in substantial upgrading of about 1OZ
of the total national road network and a significant reduction
in transport costs and improved access to the main transport
corridors. The river component will improve navigation and
allow year-around movement of export goods along the Magdalene
River. Other project benefits include higher availability of
road equipment, reduction in road maintenance cost and
upgrading quality of engineering designs, thereby avoiding
project delays and cost overruns. The project will also
improve the pricing efficiency of gasoline and diesel and
ensure that road users pay for the cost of maintenance and
improvement of the road network. The project will assist in
the decentralization process of the national road network.
Project
Risks:          There are three main areas of risk:  (a) inadequate quality of
engineering work could cause design changes and cost overruns;
(b) over-programming and deficient supervision could lead to
delays in project exacution; and (c) elimination of earmarking



- 2 -
of fuel taxes raises concerns regarding timely availability of
counterpart funding.  The project will minimize these risks by
improving project preparation through the introduction of up-
to-date standards for project design, guidelines for
preparation of engineering studies and a rolling five-year
investment plan which will be updated twice a year. A
Performance Plan to be signed between MOPT, the National
Planning Department (DNP), and the Ministry of finance
includes special procedures to assure timely budget transfers
and provides for tight project supervision. The security
situation in the country could result in interruption of works
and inability to supervise and monitor works in the field.
Recent political changes would hopefully eliminate this risk.
Local                Foreign                   Total
Proiect Costs                  __(US$million)
:a) Civil Works
Roads                   88.8               133.2              222.0
Bridges                   3.9                5.8                9.7
River Training           10.6               16.0               26.6
To be Defined            17.1               25.6               42.7
(b)  Equipment                 0                 30.5               30.5
(c)  Road Safety               0                  6.0                 6.0
(d)  Technical Assistance    0.4                  4.5                 4.9
Studies, Training
Physical Contingency   12.0                 18.1               30.1
Price Contingency        15.2               26.3               41.5
Total             148.0              266.0               414.0
Pinancing Plan:
Government                   148.0                -                 148.0
IBRD                           -                266.0               266.0
Estimated Disbursement:-         - -           Bank Fiscal Years-------
1993     1994      1995      1996     1997
(S million)
Annual                        72.2      84.2     62.6      32.5      14.5
Cumulative                    72.2    156.4    219.0    251.5    266.0
Estimated Economic Rate: 311 - weighted average for all roads.



II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.    General
2.1         Colombia, with an area of about 1.1 million square kilomoters, and
a population of 33 million, enjoys access to both the Pacific Ocean and the
Caribbean Sea. (map IBRD 23034) This advantage, however, is largely offset by
the difficulty of movements between the coastal zone and the interior. The
three massive ranges of the Andean mountains, running two thirds the length of
the country, present a serious obstacle to communications. Consequently, land
transport costs are high. The Magdalena River, until the mid-century,
provided the only overland route between the central region and the Caribbean
Coast and, even so, with serious navigational problems during the dry season.
In the 1950's, however, under a drive toward integration and modernization,
the transport system began to evolve into a national network.
2.2         The effort to establish basic transport infrastructure absorbed a
considerable part of the country's public investment. In the late 1950's
transport represented about half of the Central Government's investment.
However, with the completion of the major expansion of the net:work this share
has been reduced and has stood at 13-16% in recent years (Table 1). In the
1980's the transport sector has held a relatively stable share of GDP, between
8 and 92. (Table 2).
2.3         Colombia has now developed an extensive transport network
comprising over 112,000 km of roads, of which about 26,300 km constitute the
national highway network and the rest are largely unpaved departmental roads
(39,200 km) and feeder road (46,500 km), both public and private (Table 3).
The railway system consists of about 2,500 km of single-track narrow gauge
lines. There are seven major seaports mostly serving international traffic;
seventy airports of which seven are equipped for international flights; some
1,400 km of navigable waterways; and over 9,000 km of crude oil, refined
products and gas pipelines.  Road cransport is the dominant mode.  Highways
account for 54% of all freight tonnage including pipelines (902 if pipelines
are excluded). The main traffic consist of long-haul imports (fertilizers,
grains, general cargo) and exports (coffee, textiles, minerals) (Table 4).
For passenger transport, highways account for 912, air for 6% and the river
and rail for about 12 each. (Table 5).
2.4         With the primary infrastructure now in place, the Government's
main investment focus is on improvement to the existing network. First
priority is accorded to improving the north-south export-import corridors.
Second priority is given to providing main population and production centers
with improved access to these major transport corridors.  The Government is
also considering the transfer of the responsibility for rehabilitation and
maintenance of a major part of the national road network to the regional
entities ("departments") in order to increase the responsiveness of the
decision-making process. In the port and railways sectors, the Government has
embarked on a major program of reducing the public sector role and increasing
private sector participation.



-4-
B.    Institutional Setup
2.5         The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) is directly
responsible for the planning, construction and maintenance of the country's
national highway network. An autonomous national agency, the National Fund
for Rural Roads (FNCV), is responsible for rural road construction,
improvement and maintenance. Other sector operations are delegated to several
parastatals and autonomous agencies including: the Colombian Port Enterprise
(COLPUERTOS), which owns and operates the public sector ports; the Colombian
National Railways (FNC) --in liquidation-- which still owns and operates the
railways' equipment, the Colombian Society of Transport (STF), a mixed public-
private sector company which will take over from FNC and FERROVIAS, which owns
and maintains the railways' tracks. The Minister of Public Works is chairman
of the board of these parastatals. In addition, secondary (departmental)
roads are under regional jurisdiction, and municipal roads are under the
jurisdiction of local governments. The aviation sector falls under the
jurisdiction of the Administrative Department for Civil Aviation.
2.6         The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (Chart I) is divided
into two secretariat.: (i) a General Secretariat that is responsible for
contracting, financial administration and training; and (ii) a Technical
Secretariat responsible for construction and maintenance of highways,
maintenance of riverways and operation of river ports. MOPT also administers
in practice the National Highway Fund (FVN), an autonomous agency which is
able to contract financial obligations and which is the main source of
financing for the sector (paras. 2.24-2.25).
2.7         The National Transport Institute (INTRA) is responsible for road
transport regulation and enforcement, maintenance of a transport data bank,
research and studies. INTRA is also responsible for vehicle registration and
safety inspection and issuing driver licenses and operating licenses for
trucks. For bus transport, it assigns routes and frequencies as well as
determines tariff levels. INTRA also participates (as a minor shareholder) in
construction of bus terminals.
C.    Hiahwavs
(a)   The Network
2.8         Colombia has developed an extensive road network consisting of
112,000 km, of which the national network accounts for about 26,300 km. The
latter includes about 10,800 km (41%) of paved roads and 15,500 km of unpaved
roads. The current 391 share of paved roads is substantially above the 241
observed in 1970 (Table 6) and reflects the continuous effort to upgrade the
road network. Of the total national network about 6% of the paved roads and
22% of the unpaved roads are classified as in bad condition (Table 7) with the
rest either in fair (50Z of paved and 66% of unpaved roads) or in good
condition (442 of paved and 122 of unpaved roads). These figures indicate
that the road network as a whole is in fair condition, and compares favorably
with other Latin American countries. They also demonstrate the need for
adequate periodic maintenance to preserve the capital base.



(b)   Higthwa' Administration
2.9         The Directorate of Highways (DDC) within the Technical Secretariat
of MOPT is in charge of highway design and supervision of civil works through
three Subdirectoratess Projects, Supervision and Equipment (Annex 1). The
first is responsible for preparation and supervision of engineering designs,
the second for supervision of ongoing works and the last for operating central
workshops and stores and maintaining and rehabilitating the equipment fleet
(in conjunction with the 26 regional districts). Most detailed engineering
tasks (except for minor works) are contracted to consulting firms.
Consultants are employed in aupervising all civil works contracts.
2.10        The technical quality of MOPT's professional staff is
satisfactory. However, the quality of engineering studies, especially those
carried out by consultants, is inadequate. This is caused partly by the
absence of guidelines on the scope of such studies and the exact list of items
which have to be covered. In addition, existing engineering standards and
technical specifications for road construction, which were prepared under
prior loans, need to be updated. To assist MOPT in correcting this problem,
the proposed project includes three technical assistance tasks: the
preparation (by December 31, 1992) of road technical specifications and of
road geometric design standards and the completion (by June 30, 1993) of a
manual for engineering norms based in part on the items mentioned above.
These tasks form part of the action plan agreed upon during negotiations.
2.11        In the past there were quite a few cases of inadequate performance
by contractors. In the last two years MOPT took corrective measures by
speeding up payments, tying price escalation payments to satisfactory
execution of works and strictly applying contractual penalties for unjustified
delays in execution. MOPT has also updated the existing regulations governing
the use of its register of civil contractors. To strengthen the above
measures, MOPT has prepared new civil works prequAlification guidelines which
will be used for both LCB and ICB contracts. The guidelines were reviewed
during negotiations and will be put into effect by July 31, 1992. Agreement
to this effect was reached during negotiations.
2.12        Supervision of civil works has been carried out by consultants
under the overall guidance and monitoring of the DDC. The cost of the
consultants turned out to be very high (from 9% to 25% of the contract cost)
because of inadequate engineering which forced continual changes in the
contractors' work plans. Also, the delays in execution of civil works
increased the cost of supervision. MOPT has now adopted a policy of employing
one supervision consultant for several minor civil works contracts and this,
together with improved financial project administration, and tie measures to
be introduced under the proposed project to improve the quality of engineering
studies, should reduce project supervision cost. As a further improvement,
the proposed project includes funds for preparing a new supervision manual
with the assistance of a consultant who will be funded under the loan. This
task should be completed by June 30, 1993.
2.13        The Government is now actively considering decentralization of the
national road network by transferring to the thirty-three Departments a



substantial part of this network. The roads which will remain under MOPT's
control will likely consist of the two major north-south export-import
corridors and the transversal roads connecting the major population centers
with these corridors. It is tentatively estimated that the latter system will
consist of about 8,000 km or about 30% of the present system. However, the
process requires careful planning because the Departments have varying road
maintenance capabilities. The planning of this transfer process requires the
assistance of consultants who will be funded under the project (para. 4.15).
The consultants will start their work no later than December 31, 1992; their
task will take about eighteen months. They will examine the current resources
of each Department and the pace in which it can absorb the new roads in terms
of personnel, equipment and financial resources. The consultants will provide
guidance not only in the planning stage of the tr'nsfer but also in its
implementation. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government
and MOPT will discuss with the Bank the findings of the study and agree with
the Bank on an action plan based on the study's recommendations.
2.14        The Government has decided to launch a study an t'-= desirability
of a major restructuring of MOPT. The study, to be financed under the Public
Sector Reform Project (Loan 3278-CO of December 1990) will examine the
efficiency of the present organizational setup, and will analyze the
relationship between the transport planning units and those responsible for
the execution of works. The terms of reference for the study were prepared in
consultations with the Bank, and the study should be completed by mid-1992.
MOPT and the Government will exchange views with the Bank during the annual
project reviews on the study's proposals and their implementation.
(c)   Road Maintenance
2.15        Maintenance of the national road system is the responsibility of
the MOPT (Annex 2). Little or no data is available for maintenance done by
the various Departments for the departmental (secondary) road network. FNCV
is maintaining its rural (tertiary) road network. The overall allocation for
maintenance of the national road network has been generally in line with
requirements, although the amount has fluctuated depending on budgetary
availability. For 1991, the allocation was US$72.4 million equivalent, only
slightly below the estimated requirements of US$77.7 million (Annex 2, Table
1), of which about 30% is to be carried out by contractors. This share
represents a substantial increase over prior years (13% in 1987) aad reflects
the Government's emphasis on contracting out services to the extent possible.
2.16        While the overall allocation for road maintenance has been
reasonable, there is a lack of adequate planning of maintenance activities.
The planning of road maintenance is under the responsibility of the
Maintenance Planning Unit of the DDC. Efforts were put in prior loans into
systematizing maintenance planning including preparation of pavement and
equipment management systems in three pilot districts. While the design of
the maintenance and equipment management system has fhen completed, the system
has not been implemented at the field level. The proposed project includes
technical assistance funds to update the existing data base, train MOPT staff,
and implement the new system (para. 4.14). During negotiations agreement was



-7..
raached that such consultants will be recruited not later than December 31,
1992 and that the system will be in full operation by December 31, 1993.
2.V1        During project preparation, a five-year (1991-95) maintenance plan
was prepared by the MOPT under Bank's guidance. It was hased on the
maintenance manual prepared by consultants under prior projects and the
existing system for data collection and cost accounting. Thirty-three
maintenance activities were studied and perforcance standards were established
for each. The labor and equipment requirements were determined based on
productivity standards. The plan shows a slight declins in the required
budget for maintenance from 1992 to 1995 (Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2) reflecting
the improved stare of the network with the completion of ongoing
rehabilitation and paving works. The average maintenance cost per km,
including routine and periodic work as well as emergencies, is about US$3,000
(US$4,024 for paved roads and US$1,885 for unpaved road); these amounts are
satisfactory.
2.18        The responsibility for road maintenance is now divided between
three different organizational units: (i) the districts, which are in charge
of road maintenance works; (ii) the rrograiming Office of the DDC, which is
responsible for planning; and (iii) the Subdirectorate of Equipment within
DDC, which is responsible for road maintenance equipment. Given the close
linkage between equipment availability and road maintenance capability and the
need to integrate the planning and execution functions of road maintenance, an
organizational restructuring is needed. A new Directorate for Road
Maintenance should be created which will incorporate the maintenance planning
and execution functions and the management of equipment. This new Directorate
should control directly the fields units in terms of budget allocation and
implementation of road maintenance plans.  Under the Performance Plan to be
signed by MOPT, the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department
(para. 3.8), MOPE undertakes to take all necessary steps needed to reorganize
its road maintenance functions. Furthermore, maintenance of all roads which
will become part of the departmental road system will be transferred to the
Departments together with personnel, eqt-ipment and financial resources. The
terms of reference of the decentralization study call on the consultants to
recommend the form and pace of such transfer of resources.
2.19        Agreement was reached during negotiations that MOPT will implement
the 1991-95 Road Maintenance Plan and allocate the required amounts for road
maintenance. The amounts, which will be subject to review with the Bank
during the annual project reviews, could be revised depending on the final
decentralization arrangements. Agreement was also reached that, by September
30 of each year, MOPT will submit an update of the Five-Year Maintenance Plan
by activity showing the amount allocated for the current year and that planned
fo.: the following four years, and that by March 31 of each year MOPT will
report the amount actually spent for the preceding year and that allocated for
the current fiscal year.



- 8-
(d)   Constructlon Indu .t
2.20        The construction industry of Colombia contributes about 4.2% of
GNP with public sector works contributing about 3.0%. MOPT's contractors'
register comprises about 1,850 enterprises, classified into six categories
according to their contracting capacity; over 100 contractors have a
contracting capacity of over two million dollars.
2.21        The local construction industry is technologically advanced.
However, it is affected by several financial factorss high interest rates,
exacerbated by the lack of specialized banking; lack of suitable insuranse
facilities aggravated by high security risks in some regions of the country;
delays in contract payments, which delay project execution and tie up
equipment; unrealistic work programs, often modified during construction to
meet revised engineering estimates or adjust to low budget allocations by
MOPT; and cyclical downturns in public sector construction activity. The
construction sector is still lacking an appropriate legislation for contract
administration. The current statute, the Decree 222 set in force in 1983, is
a complex and confusing document of more than 200 articles. A bill will be
submitted to Congress in 1992 to address the existing deficiencies. This
proposal, :.f approved, will facilitate contracting procedures and will assign
more responsibility for budget allocations to the specific government agdncy.
Legal aspects, such as taxation, employment and impcrtation regimes, have been
improved through recent legislation. A study is included under the proposed
project to examine all remaining issues which constrain development of the
construction industry (para. 4.15).
(e)   Highway Planning and Financing
2.22        The Planning Office (ODP) of the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport has the primary responsibility for planning in the highway sector.
In addition, it reviews the investment plans in the port sector proposed by
COLPUERTOS and in the rail sector as prepared by FNC and FERROVIAS. The ODP
is generally well staffed and its personnel is adequately tti2.ned.  For
investment planning, the ODP prepares a data sheet for each r.oposed prcject
and sends it for approval to the Naticial Planning Department (DNP). After
approval, ODP enters the project data into a data bank (created in 1989) which
serves as a base for the annual budget preparation. The budget agreed between
ODP and DNP is submitted for approval to the National Council for Economic and
Social Policy (CONPES) and then sent to the Ministry of Finance, for
submission to Congress. The budget is adjusted once in July of the budget
year. This budget preparation process works reasonably well. However,
project identification is done on a case-by-case basis and does not originate
from an overall comprehensive analysis of the network. MOPT has already
started such analysis based on a methodology agreed upon with the Bank.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as part of the action program,
the network economic analysis will be completed by the end of 1992. This
analysis will serve as a base for selecting additional high priority road
projects which are still undefined (para. 4.6). It would also provide
valuable input to the National Transport Master Plan which was awarded at the
end of 1991 and is financed under Loan 2829-CO.



- 9 -
2.23        The monitoring of budgetary revenues and expenditures throughout
the year and follow-up on changes in execution status of investment projects,
is deficient. As a result, road projects were started in the past without
assuring first that sufficient revenues existed to accommodate them within the
budget constraints given cost increases experienced in the execution of
ongoing projects. This tended to slow down all projects and resulted in
substantial cost increases. In order to help prevent this from happening
again, the Government will supervise closely the execution of all road
projects t,.rough monitoring of project costs and implementation profile (para.
5.2). Also, MOPT submitted during negotiations an official investment plan
for 1991-95 by project. This plan, together with a five-year projection of
revenues and expenditures of the FVN, will be updated and sent to the Bank
before loan signing and by March 31 and September 30 of each year (para. 3.7).
The Bank will not approve any new sub-project for financing unless it is
demonstrated that it can be accommodated within existing resources. MOPT will
inform the Bank, and give the Bank the opportunity to comment, on all new
investments exceeding US$10 million which were not included in the original
investment plan. Agreements to this effect were reached during negotiations.
(f)   Budget Revenues and Expenditures
2.24        Highway expenditures (capital and current) are funded by the
National Highway Fund (FVN), which was created by Law No. 64 in 1967 and has
been deriving its financial resources from: (a) proceeds of the tax on fuel
products; (b) highway tolls; (c) external loans and suppliers' credits; and
'd) other minor revenue sources such as charges for construction of specific
highways and a tax on appreciation in property values following road
construction. The sources and uses of FVN funds in recent years are shown in
Table 7. Since expenditures had to be fully funded by law, any shortfall in
revenues or increase in project cost resulted in postponement in program
implementation. In mid-1991 the Constitutional Assembly has decided to
eliminate the earmarking of the fuel tax to the FVN and to substitute it with
regular Government contributions.
2.25        FVN funds are mainly allocated to investment, which accounted for
about 50Z of the total in 1990 (Table 7). The second largest item was road
maintenance, which took up about 19%, followed by debt service at 18%. The
increasing debt level has caused the share of the latter (which was a low 6%
in 1985) to increase substantially over recent years. The budget for MOPT's
headquarters staff is separate and funded directly by the Government from
general revenues. In 1990, it amounted to an additional US$13.5 million, or
about 42 of FVN's expenditures.
2.26        The fuel tax has been by far the largest source of revenues.  The
tax, which increased every year by the higher of the increase in fuel prices
and the heavy industry index, was set in the beginning of 1991 at $Col 92
(US$0.15) per gallon. This tax was distributed 80% to highways, 10% to rural
roads and 10 to the railways. In 1990, revenues from this tax constituted
61Z of all revenues used to finance the national highway system; 20% came from
highway tolls, 18% from external financing and 1X from other sources. The
1991 budget (Table 8) envisions total revenues of US$378 million, of which
US$233 million (62%) are to come from the fuel tax, US$71 million (19Z) from



- 10 -
toll, and US$67 million (182) from external financing. With the elimination
of the earmarked fuel tax, the Government intends to transfer to FVN at least
as much through regular budgetary contributions.
2.27        The toll system was instituted in 1980 and covers the cost of
maintenance and improvement of 6,700 km of the most heavily used roads. The
average distance for a toll charge is 83 km, and the toll level is based on
the assessment of relative damage to infrastructure done by the various
vehicle types as found in a study conducted for the MOPT. The current toll
level (for the average distance) varies from $Col 400 (US$0.63) for light
vehicles to $Col 2,400 (US$3.80) for articulated trucks. Collection and
management of the tolls is done by a private company which receives a fixed
fee. The toll level is adequate and the collection system is relatively
efficient. MOPT is controlling and monitoring the toll collection through ad-
hoc traffic counts and automatic traffic counters which are being installed by
MOPT using its own funds. Agreement was reached during negotiations that such
counters will be installed in 30X of all stations by the end of 1992; 50Z by
end-1993; 75% by end-1994; and 100Z 'y the end of 1995.
(g)   Fuel Prices and User Charges
2.28        The structure of gasoline and diesel prices as of January 1, 1991
and January 1, 1992 is given in Table 9. In mid-1991, the price of gasoline
and diesel at the consumer level was about US$0.59 per gallon, compared to the
border price level of about US$0.67. In January 1992, prices were raised by
about 261, setting them above the border price level at US$0.72 per gallon.
Thus, the Government has shown its commitment to align fuel product prices
with international prices. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
Government will adjust gasoline and diesel prices from time to time so that
the average price throughout the year will be at least equal to the average
international price level plus distribution costs (CIF Bogot& for gasoline,
which is imported, and FOB Covenas for diesel, which is exported). The price
at the consumer level includes US$0.19 in taxes, so the price per gallon
received by the petroleum company is substantially below the international
level.  Because the tax is levied on the low ex-refinery base, only the part
of the tax which is above the international level can be considered an
economic tax.  During negotiations, the Government presented a program which
calls for the economic tax to increase from an average US$0.05 in 1992 to
US$0.12 in 1994, through an annual increase of 52 in real terms in both
gasoline and diesel prices.
2.29        As Table 10 demonstrates, user charges, including fuel tax, are
sufficient to finance all expenditures of the national road network. However,
the latter is only part of a substantially larger network which includes
departmental and rural roads. The actual outlays on upgrading and maintaining
the departmental road network are significantly below the desired level
because of lack of finarcial resources at the Department level. A calculation
has been made (Table 10) of the expenditures required for the total road
network, assuming an adequate level of maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading (but excluding new construction). This has been compared with the
existing level of road user charges (tolls, license fees, differential import



- 11 -
duties). The calculation shows that a real economic tax (i.e. above the
border price) of US$0.12 per gallon, or its equivalent in other charges, is
required in order for user charges to cover the costs of maintenance and
rehabilitation of the road network. The Government's policy to raise fuel
taxes, as detailed in the document which was presented during negotiations,
will allow full coverage of all road maintenance and rehabilitation costs by
1994. Agreement was reached during negotiations that road user charges will
be put into effect and maintained at a level sufficient to cover 62Z of the
costs of maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of the total road network
in 1992; 78% in 1993; and 100% in 1994. Progress on this plan will be
reviewed with the Government as part of the annual project reviews. As a
second phase, a study will be carried out to analyze the distribution of road
user charges among vehicle types and the extent that the charges cover the
estimated cost attributable to each vehicle type. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Government, through DNP, shall complete and
furnish to the Bank such study not later than March 31, 1993.
(h)   Truckina Industry
2.30        The number of trucks in Colombia is about 154,000 and shows a 2-3%
annual growth in recent years (Table 11). Trucks are both imported and
manufactured locally. The local manufacturing started in 1960 with the
establishment of a first assembly plant by COLMOTORES, in which General Motors
has an 80Z interest. A second manufacturer, SOFASA, 99.6% owned by Renault,
entered in the 1980's, followed by CCA, which is owned jointly by Banco de
Colombia and Mazda. All companies produce light vehicles, but only one
manufacturer produces buses and trucks. Annual production in 1988 amounted to
65,000 units, of which about 71Z were light vehicles, 10% vans, 10 pickups
and 92 buses and trucks.
2.31        In order to protect local industry after substantial losses
suffered by the companies in 1984/85, the Government prohibited all
importation of vehicles (except for special permits issued to public entities)
and maintained price controls over local production. As a result, diversity
of the fleet was substantially reduced and 60S of the truck fleet was modified
subsequent to purchase. The price control on commercial vehicles was relaxed
after 1987. In 1990 the Government relaxed its import policy and started
allocating a certain quota in foreign exchange for importation of vehicles.
This quota had to be bid on by importers, thus creating an effectively higher
exchange rate for such imports. This policy was further liberalized in 1991
when the Government removed all restrictions on foreign exchange availability
for imports of vehicles. Custom tariffs on imported vehicles have been
reduced several times since 1991 and are currently at a 35-40% range for cars
and 25% for trucks.
2.32        Privately owned trucks in Colombia provide services in two
operational modes: private service, which is limited to truck owners carrying
their own goods, and public service, where trucks carry goods for payment.
Public service vehicles are required to be affiliated with a trucking firm.
There are more than 500 trucking companies in Colombia, most of which own less
than 5 trucks, although some are very large with a fleet of over 100 trucks.
The Government does not exercise any control over freight rates, which are



- 12 -
established competitively. Trucking companies operate efficiently and the
sector does not impose any constraint on economic growth and transport demand.
(i) Traffic Counts and Axle Loads
2.33        The Programming Office within the Directorate of Highways is in
charge of planning, programming and executing systematic traffic studies of
the road network. Traffic counts were expanded recently through the
acquisition of new automatic counting devices. The traific counting network
comprises 28 permanent stations operating year-round and 878 control stations
operating one week per year; this network covers 18,294 km of roads, about 73Z
of MOPT's road network, and is operated with the assistance of MOPT districts'
personnel.
2.34        Vehicle dimensions and axle loads are regulated by Resolution
13791 of MOPT dated December 1988 and updated by Decree in 1989. The legal
limits set forth for the most common axle arrangements are: 11 tons for
single axles with dual wheels (6 tons for single wheels); 22 tons for tandem
axles with dual wheels; and 24 tons for triple axles with dual wheels. In
addition, load limits are also enforced for each truck configuration; these
legal loads range from 15 tons for two-axle trucks to 48 tons for five-axle
articulated trucks. These axle loads limits and maximum weight allowances are
satisfactory. The Programming Office of DDC is also responsible for
executing a truck weighing control program to enforce load regulations. The
weighing program is still weak, as it is based on the operation of one set of
portable scales, which is alternated through five strategic control sites per
year. However, MOPT has recently purchased four sets of dynamic and static
portable scales and related operational software; in addition, the project
includes provisions for the acquisition of eight additional sets. These new
facilities will enable control of about 90Z of the network. As part of the
action plan, agreement was reached that five sets of scales will be in
operation by the end of 1992 and eight additional sets by the end of 1993.
D.    Railways
2.35        The total railway network in Colombia amounts to 3,239 km (2,532
km in use) with the main trunk line of 1,287 km connecting the Caribbean port
of Santa Marta with Medellin and Bogota in the central highlands. The
railways were originally conceived as a long-haul bulk carrier for export and
import traffic, but operating inefficiencies, high personnel cost, low levels
of service and poor management have all combined to reduce its role. Overall
traffic declined from 2.4 million tons in 1979 to less than 1 million tons in
1989. By then, only 41 of exports and 9Z of imports moved by rail. Road
traffic, efficient and flexible, has replaced rail for general cargo, leaving
it an important role only in a few commodities such as coal (about 40%) and
coffee (22Z).
2.36        Given the deteriorating operating and financial condition of the
railways, the Government, after obtaining congressional approval in 1988,
issued in July 1989 various decrees liquidating the existing National Railways
(FNC) and creating two public entities in the sector: (a) FERROVIAS which



- 13 -
will own all infrastructure, and be responsible for maintaining the railway
network and controlling traffic; and (b) Rail Transport Company (STF), which
will own all existing rolling stock and will provide rail transport services
on a commercial basis, with the objective of seeking maximum private sector
participation and ownership. FERROVIAS is supported in its initial stage by
Government budgetary transfers and a 10% share of the revenues from fuel
taxes. In coming years it is intended to rely progressively on revenues from
users of the rail infrastructure and rentals to the private sector of rail
installations and equipment. The Government intends to have FNC's liquidation
complete, and STF in operation, by July 1992. Substantial progress has
already been reached in discussions with investors representing coffee growers
and industrial interests in subscribing to a 49% share in STF. Financial
obligations related to the disposal of FNC personnel and payment of debt are
to be assumed by a special fund created by the Government. A special
commission is trying to relocate workers, where possible, to the new
companies, with the rest compensated according to existing laws. Staff has
already been reduced from 9,000 to around 5,300. Of this total, 2,500 more
will be retired, 1,500 compensated and only about 1,300 transferred to the new
entities.
2.37        In the context of the Public Sector Reform Project (Loan 3278-CO)
the Government stated in its Letter of Development Policy its intention to:
(i) limit its role in the sector to regulation and provision of infrastructure
which can be economically justified; and (ii) make FERROVIAS financially
viable and limit its personnel to the minimum necessary to carry out its
operations. The Public Sector Reform Loan finances a study to determine the
tariff rate to be charged for the use of the rail infrastructure; consultants
for the study were recruited in late 1991.
j         E.    Ports
2.38        There are four major public ports in Colombia:  Buenaventura on
the Pacific Coast and Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta on the Caribbean
i         Coast.  All four ports are fundamentally general-cargo terminals, even though
Buenaventura and Santa Marta have specialized facilities for handling and
storage. In addition, individual companies own private berths to handle their
own cargo (petroleum, coal, etc). The National Port Authority, COLPUERTOS,
manages and operates the public ports and supervises and regulates private
berths located in the vicinity of the ports. COLPUERTOS does not have
jurisdiction over the private ports of Turbo (operated by the Federation of
Banana Growers), Puerto Bolivar (operated by the Colombia Coal Enterprise),
and Covenas (operated by ECOPETROL).
2.39        Traffic at the public sector ports amounted to about 5 million
tons in 1989, representing annual growth of about 2.5% in the last decade
(Table 12).  Among all ports, Buenaventura handled most traffic, 2.9 million
tons, or 58% of the total, followed by Cartagena. Buenaventura's dominance is
larger among imports where it accounts for 63% of the total, reflecting the
fact that it is the only Pacific Ocean entry from the Far East where most
imports originate. Private berths, which pay specific charges to COLPUERTOS,
handled about 6.9 million tons in 1989, most of it (5.1 million tons) near and



- 14 -
around the port of Cartagena. Specialized ports handled an even larger
amount, 21.2 million tons, of petroleum, coal and bananas (Table 13).
2.40        Ports suffer from restrictive labor practices, weak management and
high operating costs. As a result, with the exception of the port of
Buenaventura, all public ports posted losses in recent years. The mounting
losses and lack of progress in reducing labor costs has caused Congress to
pass a new law in January 1991, to restructure the sector. The law allows
private and public enterprises to construct, maintain and operate ports and
provide all port services without any restriction with regard to labor
employment or ability to cover costs. The Government maintains control over
tariffs in the beginning but will let market forces set in as competition
builds up. Port operators will only pay a uniform fee based on the economic
cost of the public resources used by each enterprise. COLPUERTOS will be
stripped of its regulatory power, which will be transferred to MOPT. The law
envisages the total liquidation of COLPUERTOS within a period of three years,
with the Government assuming the pension payments and debt obligations.
Workers will be retrained and be offered either alternative employment or
severance pay. The restructuring of the port sector formed part of the
conditionality of the Public Sector Reform Loan.
F.    River Transport
2.41        Colombia has about 1,400 km of navigable waterways which moved
approximately 2.7 million tons in 1989. The most important river system for
cargo movement is the Magdalena River, which in 1989 moved 19 million tons
(Anaex 3, Table 1), with petroleum products accounting for most of it, 1.3
million tons. General cargo on the river has been declining steadily,
reflectinC in part the restriction of navigation to the wet season; this is
being addressed by the proposed project.
2.42        Responsibility for the maintenance of river transport
infrastructure and for the regulation of river transport is held by the
Directorate of Navigation and Ports (DNYP) within MOPT. In all, DNYP employs
650 people. It has an annual budget of US$13.5 million, which finances the
direct operating cost of its ten dredgers and other equipment, eleven
contracts 4or protection of river banks, administrative costs, studies and
research, including the cost of two laboratories and the survey vessel, and
minor works in the river ports.
2.43        River transport has a distinct cost advantage over roads for long-
haul bulk traffic (para. 4.28) and is extremely suitable for the increasing
traffic of petroleum products and the expected growth forecast for coal
exports. However, such traffic increase depends on the availability of year-
around navigation and improved operations at the river ports. This will be
provided by the proposed project. Furthermore, adequate maintenance of the
river is absolutely essential if navigation is to be reliable. Maintenance
has been inadequate in recent years because of poor availability of the old
fleet of dredgers and inefficiencies in operation of the fleet. MOPT is
looking into the possibility of chartering out DNYP's dredgers to private
operators. This option has to be looked at with the help of a consultant who
will be funded by the project. Agreement was reached during negotiations



- 15 -
that: (a) as a condition of disbursement for the river training civil works,
MOPT will submit a plan for implementing a satisfactory maintenance program
for the Magdalena River; and (b) MOPT will carry out the program as agreed
with the Bank.
2.44        River usage tariffs are minimal, about $Col 0.02 per ton-km,
compared to $Col 0.60 for heavy trucks by road. Total revenues from river
user charges cover only a very small portion of DNYP's expenditures.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that MOPT will put into effect a
revised system of user charges which will cover at least the cost of
maintaining the river infrastructure system, by January 1, 1994.
G.    Shinnina
2.45        Flag law protection has been applied in Colombia in the last
decade to help the national shipping lines, by reserving for them a portion of
the country's foreign trade. The results, however, have been inefficient and
costly services. The Government has now embarked on a policy of reducing this
protection. In March 1990, it reduced the reserve for bulk cargo on national
liners from 502 to 10% and for general import cargo to no more than 50Z
(against a previous minimum of 50%, which resulted in an effective average
reservation of 75%). As a result, some reduction in shipping rates has
already taken place, and the largest national shipping line, Flota Nercante
Grancolombiana, has announced a restructuring plan, reorganization, staff
reductions and fleet modernization.
2.46        The Public Sector Reform Loan stipulates that, as a condition of
disbursement for the second tranche of the loan, the limit of 80Z on the
remittance abroad by foreign shipping lines is to be eliminated, and the
reservation on bulk imports be further reduced from 10% to 5%. Law 49 of 1990
eliminated all freight remittance ceilings for foreign shipping companies and
the reserve quota system was eliminated in October 1991.
H.    Intermodal Facilitation
2.47        A study was conducted in 1986 with assistance by UNCTAD on the
improvements required in export and import procedures and regulations to
facilitate the flow of goods and intermodal transfer (ship-river-road and
ship-river-rail). Although the subject was later discussed in various working
groups, a comprehensive approach was never formulated. The General
Directorate of Customs (DGA) has recently prepared a proposal to expedite the
flow of goods, allowing merchandise to reach its destination with only one
document and only one responsible shipping agent. This is especially
important for container traffic, which increased from 45,000 containers in
1981 to 107,000 containers in 1989, and is expected to grow even more rapidly
in the future. A major unresolved customs issue is related to allowing
merchandise to be inspectee only at final destination instead of the port of
entry.  Security considera ions and illegal trade h-v- orevented introduction
of such legislation in the past.
2.48        DGA and MOPT have taken initial steps to form a group to
coordinate discussions among shippers, transporters, gover.nent institutions,



- 16 -
and associations of commercial enterprises. Funds are provided under the
proposed project for a series of seminars to be coordinated by the Planning
Office of MOPT to bring the latest developments in trade facilitation to the
attention of all parties. Agreement was reached during negotiations that MOPT
will nominate, by September 30, 1992, a full-time employee with experience in
the area of international trade to coordinate this effort and that a plan of
action to facilitate international transport procedures and regulations, based
on the UNCTAD study and other findings, will be prepared by June 30, 1993.
Funds for such consultant are included under the project.
III. PAST BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
3.1         The Bank has played a major role in the development of Colombia's
transport system. The Bank started its support to the national highway system
with a US$16.5 million loan in 1951 and has since had nine operations
totalling about US$558 millions (Table 14). The Bank entered financing of
rural roads in 1981 and has had three operations for a total of US$150
million. In addition, the Bank has made seven railway loans totalling about
US$197 million, one aviation loan (US$61 million) and one port loan (US$43
million).  The IFC has financed a US$15 million loan/equity operation in the
pipeline subsector.  Total Bank/IFC contribution to the sector to date is
about US$1,024 million.
3.2         In the railway sector, the Bank loans were unsuccessful in
bringing about the hoped-for improvement in railway operations. The Seventh
Railway Project, Loan 2090-CO of 1981 (the last Bank operation in the sector),
attempted to improve operating efficiency and equipment utilization and
streamline management practices. However, overstaffing and operating
deficiencies remained and resulted in decreasing traffic and deteriorating
finances. As described in paras. 2.36-2.37, the Government has now embarked
on a plan to privatize railway operations with only infrastructure remaining
under a Government agency while actual operations are transferred to a mixed
public-private sector enterprise (STF). Given the fact that the railways
enjoy a cost advantage for bulk traffic over long hauls (e.g. coal, coffee),
there could be justification for a renewed role for the Bank in supporting
infrastructure improvement if the Government is successful in finding enough
private operators to ensure viability for the infrastructure company. Any
further involvement should await the result of current negotiations with the
private sector regarding purchase of a share in STF and the completion of a
study to determine tariff levels to be charged by FERROVIAS for the use of
rail infrastructure.
3.3         In the port sector, the Bank is now involved in a port
rehabilitation project designed to improve port facilities and operating
efficiencies, and upgrade investment planning and financial and administrative
capability. While the physical elements of the project are being completed,
and some improvement in operating practices is apparent, it has become clear
that a Government agency will not be able to overcome the restrictive labor
practices and the financial losses associated with operating Colombia's public
ports (with the exception of Buenaventura). As stated in para. 2.40, the



- 17 -
Government has now decided to dissolve COLPUERTOS over the coming three years
and let private or mixed public-private sector enterprises build and operate
Colombia's ports. The Bank and IFC could possibly be involved in the future
with provision of long-term financing for these new enterprises. Although
some minor changes were introduced in the ongoing project, as a result of the
plan to privatize the ports, the need for most project components is not
affected by the eventual transfer of authority. The improved port facilities
will be required, regardless of the organization that operates the facilities.
3.4         Rural roads have been supported since 1981 through Bank loans to
the National Fund of Rural Roads (FNCV). The Bank's current rural road
project, Loan 2668-CO, finances part of FNCV's 1986-92 Investment and
Maintenance Program as well as studies, technical assistance and training.
The project supports the Government strategy of decentralization, since the
road projects are identified and prepared by the local governments while FNCV
reviews and screens the projects and supervises their execution. The local
governments also contribute to the financing of the projects. After a slow
start with the first rural project, FNCV has now developed into an efficient
institution staffed with capable personnel. A maintenance management plan has
been instituted and management performance is satisfactory. The loan resulted
in substantial upgrading of the rural road network. The loan is expected to
be completed by mid-1992, about six months ahead of schedule. The Second
National Rural Roads Project (Loan 3157-CO), approved in 1990, has shown
substantial progress in its initial phase, with rapid contracting of civil
works and extension of the maintenance management system country-wide with the
assistance of consultants.
3.5         The most intensive Bank involvement has been with the national
road network, for which MOPT is responsible. The task here has been more
complex than with the rural road system. First, MOPT is a much larger
organization with over 10,800 employees compared to only 2,300 for FNCV.
Second, MOPT oversees a substantially bigger budget (over US$500 million
against US$70 million). Finally, the projects themselves are larger and more
complex. The experience under previous Bank loans to the highway sector is
detailed in Annex 4. The results of Bank involvement to date have been mixed.
On the physical side the results are substantial: the national road network
has expanded significantly and the state of the network has improved markedly.
Only a small portion of the paved national road network is now classified in
bad condition. The two major north-south export corridors are almost complete
and all the major population centers are now connected to the road network.
The PCR for the (First) Highway Sector Project, Loan 2121-CO, (Sec. M91-229)
notes that the institutional strengthening component had only mixed results.
First, while computerization was advanced in the areas of accounting and
personnel administration, the objective to form a management information
system has not been achieved, mainly due to lack of management commitment.
(This issue has been dealt with under the ongoing Second National Highways
Sector Project, where consultants have designed a management information
system whose implementation will form a part of the proposed project).
Second, the road maintenance system developed by the consultants has not been
extended from the pilot districts to the country as a whole because of lack of
management commitment, inadequate coordination among the technical units and
between them and the administrative units, and frequent changes in personnel.



- 18 -
Third, the vehicle weight control has not advanced satisfactorily (This issue
was addressed under the subsequent loan). Fourth, budget planning and
administration has remained weak because of inadequate quality of engineering,
over-programuing and lack of counterpart funds.  The report notes that HOPT
implemented several studies on policies in the transport sector and on
upgrading road technologies, carried out partially the training program and
implemented a system for contracting routine road maintenance.
3.6         The observations pertaining to Loan 2121-CO are also applicable in
part to the ongoing Second National Highways Sector Project, Loan 2829-CO. In
the area of project preparation, engineering studies continued to be weak in
the absence of established guidelines. As a result, the quality of road
designs varied substantially depending on the consulting firm and the assigned
supervisor; in some cases actual costs were exactly on target while in others
costs went up as much as three times.  Another major difficulty that surfaced
was the tendency of HOPT to start work on more projects than the number which
its financial resources could sustain, resulting in construction delays and
further cost increases (due both to deteriorating road conditions with the
passage of time and the additional input of supervising consultants). Also,
the technical supervision by MOPT was unsatisfactory, and in several cases the
chosen contractors were not qualified to carry out their task. Another
difficulty was caused by selection of contractors whose performance was
unsatisfactory. The deteriorating security situation contributed to project
delays and cost increase because contractors had to interrupt work when
workers' safety could not be assured. This factor also prevented effective
supervision of road projects in the field.
3.7         The proposed project concentrates on three areas which proved to
be major obstacles to achieving the past projects' objective3: project
preparation and engineering, systematic road maintenance and budgetary and
financial control. In the first area, the project includes the preparation of
detailed guidelines for consulting firms on what items have to be included in
all engineering studies, and preparation of documents standardizing road
geometric designs and road technical specifications. This will ensure
consistency among all engineering studies. Furthermore, a new document for
prequalification of contractors, agreed during negotiations, will tighten the
criteria for selection of contractors. As to road maintenance, substantial
progress has been made during the preparation of the proposed project in
completing a road maintenance plan based on performance and productivity
standards. Consultants to be selected by December 31, 1992 (para. 2.16) will
move promptly to the final stage of system design and implementation. In
terms of financial control, MOPT has already prepared a Five-Year Investment
Plan that specifies the amount of investment that can be carried out both
under the Bank project and for projects carried out with MOPT's own funds, as
well as those supported by IDB financing. The investment plan, specifying the
investment for each project by year, was submitted during negotiations. The
investment plan will be incorporated into a five-year plan for FVN's revenues
and expenditures and will be updated by April 1 and October 1 of each year.
No contract for a new Bank-financed project will be approved unless the plan
demonstrates that the project can be accommodated within MOPT's overall
resources. These procedures for Bank approval of individual projects
represent a significant tightening of the review process compared to the prior



- 19 -
loan, which specified only a general qualifying criteria for road sub-projects
to be included under the loan.
3.8.        In order to further tighten project monitoring and supervision,
the Government (through DNP and the Fiscal Council -CONFIS- within the
Ministry of Finance) has agreed to enter into a contract with MOPT in the form
of a Performance Plan (Plan de Desempefio), by which MOPT will have to comply
with a list of quantitative indicators involving progress and cost control of
individual road sub-projects as well as overall institutional objectives
(para. 5.2). DNP and the Ministry of Finance will assume responsibility for
project supervision on the part of the Government, and will be assisted by
consultants in performing this task. The Bank will participate in the
Government's formal project review at least once a year. Agreement was
reached during negotiations on the draft contract to be signed by MOPT, DNP
and the Ministry of Finance (Annex 5). The Government committed itself to
supervise the project implementation in accordance with the Performance Plan.
In addition, the loan documents include a provision which allows the Bank to
suspend considuration of all new sub-projects if project execution is not
satisfactory (para. 5.2).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Justification
4.1         Colombia's highway network is characterized by rough terrain and
large distances between the major Atlantic ports and the main population and
production centers. The recent report on the Role of Transport in
International Trade (8900-CO, November 1990) has shown that the share of
transport in total product costs is high: transport costs account for 702 of
the FOB price of coal, a major export commodity, and 302 of the import price
of wheat.  The project is an integral part of Bank support for the
Government's strategy to open the economy to international competition and to
make more efficient use of economic assets. This objective is being pursued
at the level of macroeconomic and sectoral policy through a coherent set of
reforms of the trade regime, financial, industrial, transport and power
sectors. The Bank is supporting this strategy of "apertura" through a series
of operations including the recently approved Public Sector Reform Loan,
Industrial Restructuring Project, and others under preparation. The proposed
project will further this strategy by providing part of the infrastructure
needed to support the export drive and by reducing transport costs through
better maintenance and rehabilitation. At the same time, it aims to correct
the institutional weakness observed under the past Bank loans in investment
preparation, programming and budgetary control.
4.2         Under the ongoing Second National Highways Sector Project (Loan
2829-CO) a major effort was put into paving the remaining sections of a north-
south highway corridor linking the capital city Bogota and other major
population centers with the Atlantic ports of Santa Marta and Cartagena. The
proposed project will finance the completion of this corridor, which will



- 20 -
replace the existing mountain route and reduce transport costs by about 30Z.
As a second priority, works have been ongoing on a second north-south corridor
connecting Medellin and Popayan, two important centers, with the Atlantic
ports, and on providing improved linkages between other production and
population centers with these two north-south corridors. The proposed project
helps the Government to continue pursuing this strategy.
4.3         The project will introduce twice-a-year updating of the five-year
investment plan, which will then be reviewed by the Bank. The project will
also assist in the implementation of a medium-term road maintenance plan,
decentralization of the national road system from the planning stage through
implementation, and the restructuring of the MOPT based on studies to be
financed by the project and by the Public Sector Reform Loan. The Bank's
involvement will ensure efficient pricing of petroleum products and adequacy
of user charges. Finally, the Bank's participation will bring about, for the
first time, a direct supervisory role for the Government over the execution of
a project by MOPT.
B.    Prolect ObJectives
4.4         The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)   reduce the transport cost of freight, especially long-distance
import and export traffic, and improve access to markets by
completing rehabilitation and paving of about 2,400 km roads and
improving river transport;
(b)   improve the quality of project preparation by MOPT and consultants
by standardizing engineering designs and specifications and
issuing project engineering guidelines;
(c)   improve road maintenance planning and practices;
(d)   improve project planning and execution and reduce construction
costs by tightening the criteria for contractor qualification,
expanding the capability of MOPT to follow up and monitor civil
works contracts and establishing a mechanism for Government
supervision of project implementation;
(e)   assist MOPT in the process of decentralization of the national
road system and in its restructuring; and
(f)   improve the environmental management of MOPT.
C.    Project Description
(a) Highway Rehabilitation
4.5         The proposed loan would finance a part of the five-year (1991-95)
highway rehabilitation, paving and construction program. The part which would
be financed by the Bank consists of:



- 21 -
(i)   forty-four ongoing contracts initiated under Loan 2829-CO,
comprising 1,965 km of paving and rehabilitation works which
need additional financing of about US$140 million to be
completed;
(ii)  two contracts totalling 47 km initiated with FVN's own
funds, which will need additional financing of about US$8
million to be completed; and
(iii) twelve contracts which were not yet awarded comprising 52 km
of new construction, 224 km of rehabilitation and 124 km of
paving at a cost of about US$74 million.
4.6         The list of all eligible road sections included in the project is
given in Table 15. Agreement was reached during negotiations that MOPT will
carry out the road works according to the list agreed with the Bank. MOPT
also submitted during negotiations an overall Five-Year (1991-95) Investment
Plan which includes Bank-financed projects, as well as all other projects to
be carried out with FVN's own funds and any other financial source.  MOPT will
update its five-year Investment Plar., which will include FVN's revenues and
expenditures, on March 31 and September 30 of each year and will inform the
Bank, and give the Bank an opportunity to comment, on any new investments
exceeding US$10 million. The total base cost of the road component is about
US$222 million, of which the Bank will finance the estimated foreign exchange
cost of about US$133 million (602 of total cost). In addition, about US$43
million of the project is left to finance projects which are yet to be
defined. This will be done after completion of the economic analysis of the
whole network, due at the end of 1992.
(b)   Bridges
4.7         The bridge program includes the following:  (i) repair of ten
existing bridges, to preserve the integrity of their structures, with a total
length of 2,284 m. and a base cost of US$2.0 million; (ii) reconstruction of
four existing bridges which are in bad condition with a total length of 146 m.
and construction of ten new bridges with a total length of 779 m. to link
sections of existing roads at a base cost of US$7.7 million. In total, the
program comprises 24 bridges, with a total length of 3,209 m and a total base
cost of US$9.7 million (Table 16). Agreement was reached during negotiations
on the list of eligible bridges.
(c)   River Training and River Ports
4.8         The investments in river training are described in Annex 3.  Their
purpose is to improve the navigability of the Magdalena River from
Barrancabermeja to the Atlantic Coast from the present average of nine months,
to year-round availability. The works in the river will involve channel
deepening by dredging and the closing of secondary channels through the use of
semipermeable barriers, aided by deposition of dredged materials. These works
(cost US$17.6 million) will both deepen and stabilize the navigation channel.
The component also includes dredging in the Canal del Dique leading from the
river to the port of Cartagena, to catch bottom-moving sediments, thus



- 22 -
maintaining the depth of the Canal. This work will also include minor works
to stabilize the river banks and dredging the two mouths of the Canal (US$3.5
million). The total cost of these works is US$21.1 million.
4.9         The ports of Capulco anid Barrancabermeja provide the dry cargo
intermodal links between the river and rail and road. The installations at
the port of Barrancabermeja are insufficient and obsolete and need to be
upgraded. The works involve relocation of the transit shed and other
buildings to maximize cu,acity of the existing berth, building an additional
berth with a total length of 240 m, and improvement of accesses to the port.
The total cost for river port works is US$5.0 million. About US$0.5 million
has been included for navigation aids to improve operational safety of river
navigation.
(d)   Eauipment
4.10        MOPT's road maintenance fleet (Annex 6) is composed of 3,833
units, of which 1,391 (36%) are more than fifteen years old. This fleet is
not adequate to carry out maintenance work by force account within the agreed
1991-95 maintenance plan. Of the present fleet, 483 units need minor repairs
and 813 need rehabilitation or reconstruction. In addition, most old units
which are more than ten years old should be sold at auction or discarded,
because their operation and maintenance is too costly.
4.11        To enable MOPT to carry out the maintenance programs for 1992-95,
a total of 753 new units will be acquired through the proposed project at a
cost of about US$24 million. Twenty-five units will be acquired by MOPT with
its own funds. Furthermore, the units between five and ten years old, and
some units between ten and fifteen years old, will be rehabilitated during the
same period in accordance with a program prepared by MOPT's Equipment
Subdirectorate. The maintenance equipment list was prepared taking into
account the increased involvement of private contractors in maintenance
activities, including routine maintenance, and is needed for carrying out the
scheduled maintenance program by force account and micro-enterprises. The
equipment rehabilitation program will be carried out in MOPT's workshops,
which are properly supplied and staffed for this purpose. The project will
finance US$5 million in spare parts needed for this program. The project also
includes: (a) purchase of instruments for the road materials laboratory
(US$500,000); and (b) purchase of additional weighing scales (US$1 million) to
enforce weight control regulations. The equipment purchases do not conflict
with the decentralization process, because the equipment is needed in the
short term to enable implementation of the road maintenance plan, either
through the Ministry or through the various departments which will absorb both
personnel and equipment. The equipment purchasing program was planned so that
the equipment can be easily reassigned to the Departments and serve to carry
out maintenance on the roads which will be transferred as part of the
decentralization process.
(e)   Road Safetv
4.12        The current road safety system is still inadequate.  The number of
accidents on the highway network is high, resulting in heavy loss of life and



- 23 -
property. One of the main causes of accidents is the lack of adequate
vertical signalization, pavement marking and barriers. A program to improve
t'.s situation and decrease the number of accidents has been prepared for the
period 1992-95. The program lncludes: (i) about 22,600 vertical signs
(warning, regulatory, and informative) at a cost of US$2.0 million; (ii) about
2,900 km of road marking amounting to US$3.5 million; and (iii) road barriers
at a cost of US$0.5 million. The total cost of the program to be financed by
the loan is about US$6.0 million (Table 17).
(f)   Technical Assistance
4.13        The technical assistance program is designed to overcome remaining
defic-lencies in the sector's management. It follows up on studies carried out
under the on-going Loan (2829-CO), supports improvements that were to be
started under that loan but were delayed because of institutional constraints,
and introduces actions in new areas identified during project preparation.
The program will improve MOPT's performance in the field of road design and
engineering, and road maintenance and civil works supervision, through a
combination of studies and on-the-job training. The program will also provide
the assistance necessary to plan and implement the decentralization of the
national road network.
4.14        Draft terms of reference for all technical assistance tasks are
int..uded in Annex 7 and were agreed during negotiations. The technical
asistance program includes:
(i)   Developing and ILp.ycmentinx a Road Maintenance System.
Efforts were undertaken under Loan 2121-CO to develop a road
maintenance accountJng system, but an actual mechanism of
planning and control has not been installed.  A preliminary
1992-95 maintenance plan was developed during project
preparation. The cechnical assistance will establish a
systematic multi-annaal budget and performance plans, define
performance criteris- organize maintenance activities
including maintenance by contract, overview implementation
of the plan and the eq:ipment management system, and train
MOPT's personnel. The ;onsultants will be selected by
December 31, 1992 and ti.e system should be in operation by
the end of 1993.
(ii) Standards for pavement structural design. There is
currently no pavement design guide within MOPT, which
results in inconsistent engineering criteria applied to new
construction and rehabilitation work. A consultant will
supervise the work of the task force created by MOPT to
develop such a pavement catalogue. The consultant will
establish the general methodology, define the required
inputs, review existing procedures to evaluate soils and
road materials, and review the final report and supporting
documents. The task should be completed by June 30, 1993.



- 24 -
(iii) SutMervision of Road Works. A consultant will design
upgraded supervision procedures and prepare a project
supervision manual. The task should be completed by June
30, 1993.
(iv)  ComDuterized Manazement Information System.  A study was
carried out by local consultants (Econometria S.A.) under
Loan 2829-CO resulting in a detailed design of a
computerized information system. The implementation stage
will be financed under the proposed loan, and should be
completed by June 30, 1993.
(g)   Studies
4.15        Four studies are included under the proposed project.  Their terms
of reference are included in Annex 7 and were agreed during negotiations.
(i)   Decentralization Study.  The task of transferring part of
the national road network to the Departments will require
careful planning to ensure that the transfer takes into
account the absorptive capacity of each Department and that
it is done in a way that will provide the resources (staff,
equipment, materials) required for adequate maintenance of
the transferred roads (para 2.13). The consultants will
also supervise the initial stages of implementation of the
decentralization program. These consultants should be
recruited by December 31, 1992; their task will take about
18 months and will be completed by June 1994.
(ii)  Road Construction Industry.  The study will examine existing
constraints to improving management and efficiency in the
construction industry including the regulatory environment,
financing, technology and training. The task should be
completed by the end of 1993.
(iii) Performance of Road Materials and Pavement. The study will
follow up on pavement research started by the University of
Cauca. The program will cover evaluating road materials'
behavior, measuring the impact of environmental factors,
monitoring pavement performance, establishing a pavement
deterioration model and testing cost-effective solutions to
pavement problems. The study should be completed by June
30, 1994.
(iv)  River Maintenance.  MOPT should hire consultants to study
the restructuring of maintenance activities of the DNYP
(para 2.40). Agreement on a definitive river maintenance
plan is a condition for disbursement for the river training
works.



- 25 -
(v)   Other Studies.  Engineering guidelines will be completed by
June 30, 1993 and will incorporate the results of the task
forces on technical specifications and standards for road
geometric design. The availability of these guidelines will
reduce substantially the variations in scope and quality of
engineering studies.
(h)   Training
4.16        Training of MOPT's staff has been conducted under past Bank
projects. The ongoing loan (2829-CO) included funds for consultants to
prepare a detailed training program. Some training has been conducted through
technical seminars conducted by the University of Cauca. However, the
training offered lagged substantially behind the objectives because of the
absence of a detailed training plan, lack of coordination among departments
and limited commitment by management. During project processing a detailed
training plan was prepared by MOPT's Directorate of Industrial Relations with
the participation of all operating departments. The plan is fully supported
by MOPT's management and includes a detailed timetable for on-the-job
training, courses, seminars and fellowships (Annex 8).  The total cost of the
program to be financed by the project is US$2.1 million. The program finances
courses and seminars within Colombia in the areas of road maintenance, heavy
equipment operation and maintenance, road planning and design, environmental
control, navigation and intermodal transport.  In addition, short term
fellowships for training abroad are also included.
D.    Prolect Costs and FinancinR
4.17        Projected revenues and expenditures of the National Highway Fund
for 1991-95, as adjusted by the Bank, are given in Table 8. The investment
part is as follows:
(US$ million)
Project                1991       1992      1993       1994       1995      Total
2829-CO                70.4       -                    -          -         70.4
Proposed IBRD          20.4      121.1     113.9       89.4      51.1      395.9
IDB 97-IC-CO           22.7       13.4       -          -         -         36.1
FVN Road Projects      80.7      120.7     154.8      211.8      150.4     718.4
Proposed IDB            -         _         131.1     114.4      103.5     349.0
Total               194.2     255.2      399.8     415.6      305.0     1569.8
4.18         Of the total investment included in the five-year plan, the
proposed project accounts for about 25%.   The Bank will finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project totalling US$266 million or 65% of total cost;
the remainder will be financed by the FVN. The loan will finance the foreign
exchange component (60%) of civil works, 100% of the imported cost of all
equipment, 1002 of technical assistance, studies and training overseas, and
65Z of local training. The project cost by year is shown in Table 18. The
costs reflect June 1991 prices.



- 26 -
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
FINANCING OF PROJECT COSTS
P r o j e c t  C o a  t a    P r o j e c t  C o a t s         B a n k
C OM P O N E N T S              (Col$ million)                 (US$ million)             L o a n
LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL         LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL       (USS Mill)  X
--_------------_----__----_-_-----_-------_--_-_--------------.-.-_--__----_-_.---------.----_---__-------_
I. CIVIL WORRS
-Road Projects-2829-CO      35,237  52,855  88,092          55.9    83.9    139.9         83.9  60
-Road Projects-FN            2,012   3,018   5,031           3.2      4.8      8.0         4.8  60
-Other Road Projects        18,684  28,026  46,710          29.7    44.5    74.2          44.5  60
-Bridges                     2,444   3,667   6,111           3.9      5.8      9.7        5.8  60
-River Training              6,701   10,052  16,753         10.6    16.0    26.6          16.0  60
-Projects to be Defined     10,763   16,145  26,908         17.1    25.6    42.7         25.6  60
SUBSOTAL CIVIL WORKS        75,842  113,763  189,605       120.4   180.6   301.1         180.6  60
II. EQUIPMENT
-Road Maintenance                0   18,264  18,264          0.0    29.0    29.0         29.0  100
-Laboratory Materials            0      315     315          0.0      0.5      0.5        0.5  100
-Axle Weight Control             0     630      630          0.0      1.0      1.0        1.0  100
SUBTOTAL EQUIPMENT               0   19,209  19,209          0.0    30.5    30.5          30.5  100
III. ROAD SAFETY                      0   3,779   3,779           0.0      6.0      6.0        6.0  100
IV. INSTITUTIONAL STRENG-
THENING
- Technical Assistance           0      724     724          0.0      1.2      1.2         1.2  100
- Studies                        0      762     762          0.0      1.2      1.2         1.2  100
- Training : Local             220      409     630          0.4      0.7      1.0        0.7  65
T- raining t Abroad              0      718     718          0.0      1.1      1.1        1.1  100
- Training Aide                 23      210     233          0.0      0.3      0.4        0.3  90
SUBTOTAL INST. STRENG.         244   2,823   3,067           0.4      4.5      4.9         4.5  89
V.  PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY         7,584  11,376  18,960          12.0    18.1    30.1         18.1  60
S U B T 0 T A L             83,670  150,950  234,620       132.9   239.7   372.5         239.7  64
VI. PRICE CONTINGENCY            9,571   16,576  26,147         15.2    26.3    41.5          26.3  63
-_--_-------------_---_-----------------------.-----------.----------__------__--------..------------------
TOTAL                       93,241  167,527  260,767       148.0   266.0   414.0         266.0  64
Notes Figures in local and foreign may not add up to the total because of rounding.



- 27 -
4.19        The preceding table shows total project costs by component.
Project cost estimates are based on: ti) up-to-date cost estimates by
supervising consultants for on-going civil works initiated under Loan 2829-CO
and those started with FVN's own funds; (ii) preliminary engineering designs
for the works not yet contracted; (iii) published suppliers' current equipment
and spare parts prices; and (iv) prevailing fees for individual technical
assistance consultants (US$10,000 per man-month for expatriate consultants and
US$5,000 for local). Physical contingencies were calculated at 10 of the
contract price for all civil works. These contingencies were estimated at
US$30.1 million. Price contingency was estimated at 5Z p.a. (in US$
equivalent) for the period 1992-96 with an estimated total of US$41.5 million.
E.    Economic Evaluation
(a)   Roads
4.20        All roads included in the rehabilitation, paving and construction
program have been subject to an economic evaluation. For roads already in
execution under Loan 2829-CO, and which will be completed under the proposed
project, an economic evaluation was carried out during the appraisal of that
loan and all showed rates of return exceeding 12t. Nevertheless, all these
roads were subjected to an economic reevaluation using the vehicle operating
costs subroutine of the Highway Design and Maintenance Model developed by the
Bank. This reevaluation takes account of all the changes since the original
evaluation in terms of project cost, vehicle traffic and road condition and
was based on comparing vehicle operating costs before and after the project.
The economic operating costs were calculated for each type of vehicle, for
each type of road condition (bad, fair, good), geometry (mountain, hilly,
plain), and surface type (paved and unpaved) (Table 19). The evaluation shows
that for paving projects started under Loan 2829-CO, the rates of return vary
from 7% to over 501 with a weighted average of 232 (Table 15). Two of the
projects show a return of less than 10%. For these projects, a second
analysis was conducted taking the investment already made as bygone. The
returns on the remaining investment turn out to be 12% and 31Z, respectively.
For rehabilitation projects started under Loan 2829-CO the returns vary from
17% to over 50% with a weighted average of 31%. The weighted average economic
return for all projects started under 2829-CO and with FVN's funds (base cost
US$147.9 million or 67% of the road component), is 26%.
4.21        All road sections which belong to the north-south corridor along
the Magdalena River connecting Bogot& with the Atlantic ports of Cartagena,
Santa Martha and Barranquilla were analyzed as one project, since completion
of the corridor as a whole is required to realize the benefits from through
traffic. In this analysis, in addition to normal growth based on traffic in
the period 1980-89, generated traffic was estimated at 3% annually. The
benefits from the paving program of 120 km of the 511-km corridor are derived
from reduction in operating cost for both long-distance traffic to the ports
which is now using an alternative route, and local traffic, which is now using
the existing unpaved roads. The rate of return on the project is 32X.



- 28 -
4.22        The above returns, while very satisfactory, are below those
projected during appraisal of Loan 2829-CO, which were 20Z to 1001 for
rehabilitation works and 20Z to 70Z for paving. The reduced returns are due
mainly to the inadequate cost estimates under Loan 2829-CO, which were caused
partly by incomplete and unsatisfactory engineering designs. This will not be
repeated under the proposed loan given the advanced stage of projects under
execution and the setting of standard engineering norms and technical
specifications, as well as standards for road geometric designs, which will
result in a revised engineering manual and consistent road design standards.
The submission every six months of updated investment plans will prevent the
start of additional projects without adequate resources, which in the past has
led to delays in execution and cost increases.
4.23        For projects which have not yet started, a detailed analysis has
been conducted using the HDM model. Traffic for each sub-project was
projected based on historical trends and expected generated traffic. Using
engineering data and climatic conditions, as well as traffic characteristics
and cost parameters, the model simulated the operating conditions for each
sub-project and calculated vehicle operating costs. For rehabilitation
projects, the benefits of the proposed investments (including overlays at a
cost of US$9.4 per square meter whenever road roughness reaches a certain
level) were measured against the alternative of carrying out only routine
maintenance (at a cost of about US$500 per km) and road patching (at a cost of
about US$7.6 per square meter). For paving projects, the benefits of the
project were derived by comparing the scenario under the proposed project with
a base case which consists of routine maintenance of unpaved roads (grading),
spot regravelling, and gravel resurfacing every 3-4 years (at US$5 per square
meter). For the six new construction projects the economic analysis takes
into account the reduction in vehicle operating costs because of the improved
road conditions and shorter distances as well as time savings because of
reduced congestion. The average economic rate of return on all projects which
are yet to be contacted is 401 (Table 15).
4.24        The economic rates of return for all road works are as follows:
Investment tvoe          Base Cost      Range of ERR     Averate ERR
(USSmillion)       (2)             (S)
(a) ongoing works:
Rehabilitation            54.9           22-over 50S        31
Paving                    93.0           12-over 502        23
Subtotal               147.9                             26
(b) to be contracted:
Rehabilitation            28.7           24-502             41
Paving                     4.9           27-442             26
New Construction          40.6           33-over 50Z        41
Subtotal               74.2                              40
Total                 222.1                              31



- 29 -
(b)   BridRes
4.25        The base cost of the bridge construction and rehabilitation
program amounts to US$9.7 million. All new construction projects which exceed
US$500,000 (seven projects totalling US$7.1 million) have been subject to a
detailed economic evaluation. Of the seven projects, the two largest were
analyzed as part of the total investment in constructing the north-south
export-import corridor (para 4.21); the economic return on that project as a
whole is 32Z. For the other bridges, the benefits from new construction are
associated with savings in both vehicle operating costs and time. It should
be noted that only time savings related to work were taken into account. The
bridges proposed for new construction replace existing bridges which are in
danger of collapse. In case of collapse, traffic would have to be diverted to
an alternative route. Three of the five bridges are on heavily trafficked
roads with ADTs averaging over 1000 vehicles per day and the other two on
medium-traffic routes of 400 vehicles per day. The substantial cost involved
in diverting traffic to alternative routes yields rates of return exceeding
SOZ for all these bridges.
4.26        Two bridges which were proposed by MOPT were deferred for further
analysis: Zambrano Bridge on the northern section of the Magdalena River
(estimated cost US$10 million, length 1500 m) and the Puerto Arturo Bridge on
the Guaviare River in the South (estimated cost US$5 million, length 600 m).
While their tentative returns were in the range of 16-20%, additional
refinement of the traffic assignment is required in both cases. For the
Arturo Bridge, transport by ferry has to be looked at again as an alternative
to the bridge construction.
(c)   River Training
4.27        The river improvement component will have three major effects:
(a) it will allow present producers and shippers to use the river year-around
instead of nine months and avoid the higher cost of alternative transport by
road; (b) in the case of petroleum products, the project will save the cost
involved in mixing low-value heavy oil with higher-value light condensates in
order to be able to ship the heavy oil by pipeline; and (c) it will reduce
operating costs for existing traffic by allowing larger convoys with more
heavily loaded barges, higher speeds and quicker turnaround of equipment. The
traffic projections are based on detailed interviews with producers and
shippers. For petroleum traffic, projections do not include the new refinery
which could begin operations by 1997. However, the expected increase in coal
exports which will use the Dique Canal has been factored into the analysis.
4.28        If river transport is handled efficiently, its cost advantage over
road is substantial. The economic cost of transporting a ton of general cargo
for the 650 km run from Barrancabermeja to Cartagena is about US$6.40 by river
(UScent 1.0 per ton-km) but it is about five times higher, (5 US cents per
ton-km), by medium-size trucks on hilly roads in average condition. The
economic analysis prepared by MOPT assumes: (a) a reduction in operating
costs for existing traffic (US$1.92 per ton for liquid cargo, US$2.24 for
fertilizers, US$3.87 for malt and US$0.56 for steel); and (b) savings
resulting from avoiding the need to add light products to heavy crude



- 30 -
condensates in order to ship the latter by pipeline. About three barrels of
light crude need to be added to ten barrels of heavy crude in order to enable
shipment by pipeline. The resulting economic rate of return on the river
component (including the cost of river ports improvements and navigation
safety aids), which has a total base cost of US$26.6 million, is 202.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Proiect Execution
(a)   General
5.1         The proposed loan will be made to the National Highway Fund (FVN).
FVN is an autonomous legal entity, able to contract financial obligation. PVN
has, as its legal representative, the Minister of MOPT and shares MOPT's staff
and structure. Throughout this report, reference made to FVN as the entity in
charge of project execution should be deemed to be made to FVN in its legal
capacity to execute the policies and programs of MOPT, including the project.
The project will be carried out in about five years from the second half of
1991 through the end of 1996. Responsibility for the preparation and
execution of specific subcomponents will be delegated by MOPT to its various
directorates as follows: General Highways Directorate (DDC) for the roads and
bridges civil works, the planning and execution of the road maintenance
program and the supervision of technica.l studies and assistance; Directorate
of Navigation and Ports (DNYP) for the river training and river port
improvement component; Subdirectorate of Equipment for purchase and
rehabilitation of equipment; Offico of Planning for supervision of economic
studies and related technical assistance; and Directorate of Industrial
Relations for the training program. Overall project coordination and follow-
up will be done by a newly formed Project Implementation Unit. Environmental
control will be provided by a new Envirorment Unit (EU) within MOPT.
(b)   Proiect Monitoring
5.2 The Governmernt has decided to establish a special mechanism in order to
ensure satisfactory project execution and avoid recurrences of over-
programming, project Alays and cost increases.  Accordingly, the Fiscal
Council (CONFIS) within the Ministry of Finance, acting on behalf of the
Government, together with the National Planning Department (DNP), will enter
into a contract for a Performance Plan (Plan de Desempefio) with MOPT. The
contract will include: (a) a review of each road project which falls below
802 of target in terms of physical progress; (b) a review of each project
whose costs exceed by more than 20X the initial cost estimate; (c) monitoring
of the relationship between annual revenues of FVN and total commitment level;
(d) review of implementation of the highway maintenance plan; and (e) follow-
up on progress in achieving the institutional improvement tasks under the



- 31 -
action plan which forms part of the Loan Agreement. The Ministry of Finance
will employ special consultants to provide the day-to-day project follow-up
and, together with the National Planning Department, will carry out project
reviews twice a year. As stated in para. 3.8, agreement was reached during
negotiations on the draft contract to be signed between MOPT, DNP and the
Ministry of Finance. This document will be signed prior to signing of the
loan documents. Agreement was also reached during negotiations on annual
Droiect reviews with the participation of CONFIS, DNP, MOPT and the Bank,
which will cover the topics of road network decentralization, organizational
restructuring of MOPT, project physical progress, institutional strengthening
program, environmental mitigatory actions, progress on the program on road
user charges, the investment and the maintenance programs and their
corresponding financing. In addition, during negotiations, an action plan was
agreed with the Borrower on specific institutional and technical aspects.
Furthermore, agreement was reached during negotiations that the Bank will have
the right not to approve new sub-projects if it considers the overall
execution of the project unsatisfactory. The table in the following page
summarizes the main topics to be monitored during project implementation.
(c)   Project Implementation Unit
5.3         Overall project coordination, supervision and administration under
the on-going loan (2829-CO) has not been satisfactory. Project information
has not been collected in time from the field, and the administrative section
of the External Credit Office, which supervises processing of loan
disbursements, has not been in a position to examine the technical aspects of
project implementation. To resolve this issue, a new Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) will be created within the External Credit Office with a permanent
staff of five to monitor project progress, resolve outstanding issues,
coordinate among executing departments and agencies and maintain continuous
up-to-date financial information. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the
PIU will be fully staffed and in operation.
(d)   Civil Works
(i)   Roads
5.4         Most of the road civil works to be carried out by contract under
the project are already under way and involve about 2,000 km of roads. These
works will be supervised by engineering consultants under existing contracts
and subject to the general oversight of the DDC. For the twelve road projects
approved by the Bank and not yet contracted, final engineering studies will be
required by December 31, 1992. This forms part of the action plan agreed
during negotiations.



- 32 -
lONITORING PROGIAMIl
Performance Plan
Contract between the Ministry of Finance, DNP, and MOPT to monitor implementation of the road
program by the Borrower.  Key aspects to be included ares
(i)    physical progress:  review of all road projects falling 20X below target;
(ii)   budget:  review of all projects vhose costs exceed 202 of estimates;
(iII)  monitoring of relationship between annual budgetary allocation and overall
commitments; 
(iv)   monitoring of Implementation of the road maintenance plan.
(v)    progress on institutional aspects and action plan.
Annual Reviews
Annual reviews to be carried out between Central Government agencies, the Bank and MOPT on
key project objectives. These will include:
Ci)    road network decentralization
(iI)   organizational restructuring of MOPT
(iII)  project physical progress
(iv)    institutional strengthening program
(v)    environmental mitigatory actions
(vi)   progress on the program on road user charges
(vii)   investment and maintenance programs and their corresponding financing
Action Plan
Detailed action plan agreed with MOPT on specific institutional and technical aspects:
Date                                        Action
July 31, 1992           Complete environmental guidelines (5.25).
Adopt new prequalification guidelines for civil works bidding (2.11).
September 30, 1992    Employ intermodal transport specialist (2.48).
December 31, 1992       Complete document on road technical specifications (2.10).
Complete document on road geometric design (2.10).
Carry out economic analysis of the national road network (2.22).
Install automatic traffic counters in 301 of toll stations (2.27).
Put into operation five sets of portable weighing scales (2.34).
Submit engineering designs for new contracts for eligible roads (5.4).
Employ consultants to implement the road maintenance system (4.14).
June 30, 1993           Complete the manual on engineering norms (2.10).
Complete the civil works supervision manual (2.12).
Submit a plan of action to facilitate intermodal transport (2.48).
Complete the pavement design guide (4.14).
Put into effect the management information system (4.14).
December 31, 1993       Make operational the road maintenance system (2.16).
Put into effect a revised system of Magdalena River user charges
(2.44).
Install traffic counters in 502 of toll stations (2.27).
Install eight additional sets of portable weighing scales (2.34).
complete the study on road construction industry (4.15).
June 30, 1994           Complete study on performance of road materials (4.15).
December 31, 1994       Install automatic counters in 75Z of toll stitions (2.27).
December 31, 1995       Install automatic counters in 1001 of toll stations (2.27).



- 33 -
(ii)  Bridfes
5.5         For bridge works, final engineering is available for all minor
projects. However, the seven major projects, which all exceed US$500,000,
hove only preliminary engineering. The preparation of final engineering for
this component will be done by the Subdirectorate of Projects within the DDC.
Final engineering should be completed by the end of 1992. Most of these works
will be carried out by contract. Supervision of all bridge works will be
under the Subdirectorate of Supervision within DDC.
(iii) River Training
5.6         The General Directorate of Navigation and Ports (DNYP) within MOPT
will be responsible for the preparation of bid documents based on engineering
studies already completed. Private contractors will carry out the river
training and dredging works under the supervision of the DNYP. Maintenance
works, after the project component is complete, are expected to be transferred
from the DNYP to private contractors (para. 2.43).
(e)   Road Maintenance
5.7         While the project does not finance road maintenance, the equipment
component was designed in accordance with the 1991-95 road maintenance plan
prepared by MOPT. This plan forms an integral part of the project. The
Maintenance Planning Unit within DDC will continue to be responsible for
updating the plan and will be assisted by consultants under the technical
assistance program. The execution of the plan will be in the hands of the
districts. The Subdirectorate of Equipment will be responsible for ensuring
that the equipment acquisition and rehabilitation program proceeds as
scheduled.
5.8         As stated in para. 2.18, MOPT has undertaken, in the context of
the Performance Plan, to take all necessary steps to modify its structure so
as to incorporate all maintenance functions into one new Directorate of
Maintenance. This change will ensure coordination among the planning,
monitoring, and execution functions of road maintenance, including maintenance
of the road equipment. The new scheme will also incorporate the Project
Implementation Unit (para. 5.3) and the Environmental Unit (para. 5.25) into
MOPT's organizational structure. This restructuring of MOPT will be necessary
even if decentralization is carried out.
(f)   Equipment
5.9         Acquisition of equipment and spare parts will be controlled by the
Subdirectorate of Equipment, which is responsible for the vehicle fleet.
Rehabilitation of all equipment will be done by MOPT's own workshops, which
are adequate. Acquisition of laboratory equipment will be carried out by the
central laboratory within the DDC and equipment for the axle weight control
program will be under the supervision of the Programming Office of DDC, which
will monitor the installation and training, while operation will be left to
the districts.



- 34 -
(g)   Road Safety
5.10        The road safety component was designed by the Programming Office
of DDC. The materials which will be purchased under the project according to
the agreed road safety plan, will be transferred to the districts, which will
install the vertical and horizontal signalling using their own staff.
B.    Procurement
5.11        The civil works components include contracts for about US$369
million, of which some US$188 million have already been contracted either
under Loan 2829-CO or with FVN's own funds following Bank procurement
guidelines. On-going civil works which were contracted by MOPT using its own
funds but were not awarded according to Bank guidelines, did not qualify to be
included under the loan. Civil works contracts for new road rehabilitation
and paving are estimated to cost between US$0.6 and US$13.7 million. Bridge
repair and construction contracts vary from US$0.1 million to US$1.5 million
and the river training and river ports improvement contracts range from US$2.3
million to US$12.8 million. Contracts for all civil works exceeding US$4.5
million will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, with the rest, up to an aggregate
of US$191.7 million, under Local Cor?etitive Bidding (LCB). The appraisal
mission reviewed LCB procedures and found them acceptable. In particular, LCB
procedures allow bidding by foreign contractors. The threshold for ICB was
determined based on the experience with the most recent Bank loan, where
foreign contractors showed little interest in contracts below US$5 million.
5.12        The estimated cost of individual road and bridge sub-projects
approved during appraisal is shown in Tables 15 and 16. In line with para. 4
of Appendix 1 of the Bank's procurement guidelines, MOPT will inform the Bank
before agreeing to a change in any contract which will raise its price by more
than 201 over the original cost (in June 1991 prices) for contracts already in
execution, or over 201 of contract price for new works. Agreement on the 201
benchmark was reached during negotiations. Approval of new sub-projects by
the Bank for financing under the undefined component will be subject to
submission of detailed engineering, economic and environmental evaluation, as
well as the Five-Year Investment Plan showing that the FVN has the funds
necessary to carry out the construction of the new sub-project according to
schedule (para. 3.7).
5.13        Prequalification of civil works contractors will be done for all
contracts under ICB and for contracts under LCB exceeding US$2 million. As
stated in para. 2.11, a p.equalification document, acceptable to the Bank, was
agreed during negotiations. The prequalification criteria to be used will
include rigorous screening of the contractors' experience and their financial
and technical capability in order to complete the works on schedule.
5.14        Equipment and materials will be procured under ICB, except
contracts not exceeding US$200,000, and totalling up to US$9.5 million, which
will be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures. The appraisal
mission reviewed the LCB procedures and found them acceptable. Items costing
up to US$50,000, and aggregating no more than US$1.2 million, could be



- 35 -
purchased using shopping on the basis of comparison of price quotations fr'Am
at least three suppliers. Local suppliers under contracts awarded under ICB
procedures, will be given a 15% preference in accordance with Bank guidelines.
5.15        All contracts for civil works exceeding US$500,000, all contracts
for equipment under ICB, and the first two contracts for equipment under LCB
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Thus, prior review will involve
over 90% of civil works (excluding on-going and already approved civil works
contracts) and about 75Z of all equipment. Since the rest of the equipment is
basically spare parts and road safety materials, this percentage is considered
satisfactory. In order to facilitate procurement review, standard bidding
documents for goods and works were agreed with MOPT during negotiations.
5.16        Consultant services for technical assistance and studies will be
contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines. Small consulting contracts
valued below US$20,000 equivalent will be subject only to ex-post review by
the Bank. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations. A standard
letter of invitation for consultants, standard terms of reference for
engineering studies and supervision of civil works, and a standard form of
consultants' contract, for both foreign and local consultants, were also
agreed at negotiations.
5.17        The following table shows the distribution of the type of
procurement appropriate for the acquisition of works, goods and services under
the project. The figures in brackets refer to loan financing.
Procurement Procedures a/
Prolect Component          ICB         LCB        Other     N.A.        Total
---------------_____ US$million--------------------
Civil Works               177.3       191.7                  -          369.0
(106.4)     (115.0)       (-)      (-)        (221.4)
Equipment                  26.2         5.5         1.2b/   (-)          32.9
(26.2)       (5.5)      (1.2)      -         (32.9)
Materials & Train. Aids    3.1          4.0          -       -            7.1
(3.1)       (4.0)       (-)      (-)          (7.1)
Technical Assistance,        -           -          2.6c/   2.4d/         5.0
Studies and Training        (-)         (-)        (2.6)   (2.0)         (4.6)
Total                206.6       201.2        3.8      2.4         414.0
(135.71     (124.5)      (3.8)   (2.0)        (266.0)
a/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank.
b/   Shopping.
c/   Consulting services.
d/   Tuition and fellowships.



- 36 -
C.    Disbursements
5.18        Disbursement will be made against the following categories of
eligible expenditures: (a) 602 of total expenditures for civil works
contracts; (b) 1002 of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for
equipment, spare parts, road safety materials and training aide; (c) 1002 of
total expenditures for technical assistance and studies; and (d) 100Z of
foreign expenditures and 65Z of local expenditures for trasning. The
allocation of loan proceeds among the various loan categories is shown in
Table 20.
5.19        Retroactive financing, up to a total of US$18.6 million and US$0.1
million, respectively, are recommended for payments made after September 1,
1991, but before the date of loan signature, for ongoing road civil works
contracts and for consultants eligible for financing under the loan.  This
payment assures continuity in project implementation and avoids work
interruptions due to lack of financial resources and resulting delays and cost
increases.
5.20        A Special Account will be established in Banco de la Repfiblica
with an initial deposit of US$15.0 million (this figure represents
approximately four months of Bank-financed expenditures). MOPT would be
entitled to make payments from the Special Account for the Bank's financed
portion of all expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Account will be submitted using Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for
expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil works whose value is the
equivalent of US$300,000 or less; (b) expenditures under contracts for goods
and materials whose value is the equivalent of US$50,000 or less; and (c)
expenditures on consultant services, studies and training under contracts
whose value is the equivalent of US$20,000 or less. Back-up documentation
will be reviewed by supervision missions in the field on a sample basis.
5.21        The Constitutional Assembly has abolished, as of July 1991, the
earmarking of fuel taxes to finance FVN's revenues. This introduces an
element of uncertainty with regard to timely availability of counterpart funds
for the project. To reduce this risk, the Ministry of Finance has undertaken,
in the context of the Performance Plan, to expedite all budget transfer to
complement disbursements under the loan.
5.22        The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan, based
on the assumption that the loan becomes effective in July 1992, is shown in
Table 21.  The estlm-.; profile extends disbursements through mid-1997, or
approximately five years. By comparison, the Second National Road Sector
Project (Loan 2829-CO, US$180.3 million) will take about 4.5 years to
disburse.
D.    Audits
5.23        All records relating to project expenditures will be kept by the
Project Implementation Unit within the Office of External Credits (para. 5.3).
In previous Bank loai!, audit reports for the project were done by the



- 37 -
Contraloria General de la Repfiblica de Colombia within its overall audit of
the Ministry. However, recent audits have been delayed. Therefore, for 1992
and beyond, MOPT agreed during negotiations to contract private external
auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit project expenditures, the Special
Account and Statements of Expenditures in accordance with appropriate
accounting principles. The audit will be submitted no later than five months
after the end of each fiscal year.
E.   14onitorinR
5.24        MOPT will submit by April 1 and October 1 of each year an update
of FVN's five-year investment plan and its revenues and expenditures (para.
2.23).  MOPT will also update by September 30 of each year its Five-Year Road
Maintenance Plan (para 2.19).  In addition, the consultants supervising the
execution of civil works will produce quarterly reports on the progress of
each contract. Finally, the PIU will submit to the Bank a quarterly project
progress report showing: (a) an updated listing of eligible road projects;
(b) progress of all civil works contracts and other project components
including latest cost estimates; (c) the status of loan disbursements against
forecast; (d) the amount of counterpart funds allocated to the project in the
fiscal year against the amount actually spent; and (e) the actual road
maintenance budget for the preceding year, the budget allocated for the
current year and physical progress of the maintenance plan for the year. The
Government will monitor project progress separately under a special contract
it will sign with MOPT, and the Bank will conduct annual project reviews with
the participation of CONFIS, DNP and MOPT (para. 5.2).
F.    Environmental Impact
5.25        MOPT has very limited capability to analyze the environmental
impact of road and river projects. It has an Environmental Committee with
five staff reviewing environmental issues in particular projects on an ad-hoc
basis, but it has no staff permanently assigned to the task. It also does not
have up-to-date environmental guidelines to be used by contractors. In the
past, HOPT has turned to outside consultants for a study whenever a major
issue arose. While outside help is a viable strategy to deal with major
studies, MOPT's capability needs to be strengthened. Therefore, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, MOPT will establish an Environmental Unit
(EU) within the Technical Secretariat with qualified full-time staff
acceptable to the Bank. The unit should be provided with sufficient resources
to carry out its task. The EU will be responsible for issuing an
Environmental Declaration for all projects prior to signing of each civil
works contract, declaring whether there are any issues, and what mitigatory
measures are required to address it. The EU will also prepare Environmental
Guidelines to be used by contractors (target date: July 31, 1992) and
supervise the work of consultants when a full Impact Assessment Study is
required. Terms of reference for the EU were agreed with MOPT during
negotiations.
5.26        On the national level, the government agency in charge of
environmental protection is INDERENA. This agency is required by law to clear



- 38 -
each project before it is contracted. In practice, the law has not been
followed. The Bank will require such Approval before approving any new sub-
project. The protection of the rights of the indigenous Indian population is
the responsibility of the Department of Indigenous Affairs within the Ministry
of Government. Coordination between MOPT and these two organizations has been
lax. 'ihe training component of the project provides for attendance at
seminars and courses on environmental issues as well as fellowships for both
MOPT #.nd INDERENA staff.
5.27        The roads, bridges and river works proposed for the new project
have been screened based on their likely environmental impact. As it turns
out, only one major project (the river training works) requires an in-depth
impact assessment study, becauee of the possible effect on fisheries following
the closure of some river branches. Such a study is clearly beyond MOPT's
capability and consultants will be contracted to conduct this study based on
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. No disbursements will be allowed
for this component until the study is completed and the environmental
mitigatory measures, if needed, are agreed. Another project which raised
potential environmental effects was the highway leading from Rio Baudo to
Nuqui on the Pacific Coast, because of deforestation concerns and the
potential effects on the indigenous population which is abundant in that zone.
This road has not been included in the project pending economic and
environmental studies. With most of the other sub-projects involving
rehabilitation and paving of existing roads and bridges, the environmental
screening indicates that only five other projects require a limited evaluation
and an environmental declaration (dredging of the Canal del Dique, lirador
bypass road, Opogodo Bridge, Magdalena Corridor, and Granada-San Juan de Arana
road), while the remaining projects do not require any analysis.
G.    Proiect Risks
5.28        The proposed project is the tenth highway loan to Colombia and is
based on the experience gained under previous loans. Three main areas pose
potential obstacles to achieving the project's objectives: unsatisfactory
project engineering, lack of a comprehensive system of road maintenance, and
inadequate planning and programming.  Continuance of existing inconsistency in
engineering designs would lead to repetition of cost overruns and delays in
project execution.  Lack of systematized road maintenance would lead to a
cycle of road deterioration and increasing need for large investments. Also,
the present state of programming and budgeting does not ensure use of the same
data by all departments and compatibility between planned investments and
budgetary constraints. The recent elimination of earmarked fuel taxes
introduces an element of uncertainty regarding timely availability of
counterpart funds.
5.29        The proposed project aims at minimizing these risks by either
building on assistance provided under the previous loans or by modifying
existing procedures and work methods. To improve project preparation, the
project includes the introduction of engineering guidelines, based on
documents which are being prepared for road technical specifications, road
geometric design and pavement structure. To improve planning, the rolling
fivye-year investment plan will be updated twice a year, and no new project



-39 -
will be approved unless it is demonstrated that it can be accommodated within
the budgetary constraints. Any cost increase over 20Z will trigger a review
by the Bank and the Government is introducing an innovative supervision
mechanism to follow up on project progress. Also, a new management
information system and a unique data bank will be introduced by consultants
based on work carried out under Loan 2829-CO. To improve road maintenance
practices, a five-year maintenance plan has been prepared for the first time
and consultants will implement the new system, which in prior projects has not
passed the design stage. To minimize the risk of delays in budget transfers,
the Performance Plan includes a commitment by the Ministry of Finance to
expedite budgetary procedures (including a specific time limit for response to
MOPT's budgetary requests).
5.30        As noted earlier, inadequate capacity of contractors has been a
problem in several civil works contracts. To overcome this, new and stricter
standards will be included in a prequalification document which was agreed
during negotiations. Also, the newly created Project Implementation Unit will
improve project follow-up and monitoring, and new stricter guidelines will be
prepared for the consultants supervising civil works.
5.31        A factor which remains a cause for concern is the security
situation. This has resulted in interruption of works on a number of
occasions. Some contingency has been provided in planning project execution
to account for this factor. However, a major further deterioration in
security could severely affect project implementation and the ability to
supervise and monitor works in the field. Nevertheless, recent developments
on the political front give room for optimism in this area.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements Reached
6.1         Agreements were reached during negotiations that:
(a)   MOPT will sign by December 31, 1992 the contract with consultants
for the study on decentralization of the national road network and
formulate an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the
recommendations of the study (paras. 2.13 and 4.15);
(b)   MOPT will recruit consultants to implement the road maintenance
system not later than December 31, 1992 and the system should be
in full operation by December 31, 1993 (para. 2.16);
(c)   MOPT will implement the 1991-95 Road Maintenance Plan and will
allocate the required amounts for road maintenance (para. 2.19);
(d)   MOPT will submit by September 30 of each year an update of the
Five-Year Road Maintenance Plan and by March 31 of each year will
report the amount actually spent for the preceding year and that
allocated for the current fiscal year (para. 2.19);



- 40 -
(-) MIOPT will update and submit to the Bank by March 31 ani September
30 of each year an update of its Five-Year Investment Plan and
FVN's five-year revenue and expenditure program (paras. 2.23 and
4.6);
(f)   MOPT will inform the Bank, and give it the opportunity to comment,
on all new investments exceeding US$10 million which were not
included in the 1991-95 investment plan agreed during negotiations
(paras. 2.23 and 4.6)t
(g)   the Government will adjust, from time to time, retail prices of
gasoline and diesel so that their average price throughout the
year be at least equal to the average border price level (CIF
Bogota for gasoline and FOB Covenas for diesel) (para. 2.28);
(h)   the Government will put into effect and maintain user charges at a
level sufficient to cover 62% of the costs of the public road
network (excluding new construction) during 1992; 78Z during 1993;
and 100Z during 1994 (para. 2.29);
(i)   the Government will complete, by March 31, 1993, an analysis of
road user charges and costs by vehicle type (para. 2.29);
(j)   MOPT will carry out the maintenance program for the Magdalena
River as agreed with the Bank (para. 2.43);
(k)   MOPT will put into effect a revised system of river user charges,
which will cover at least the cost of maintenance of river
transport infrastructure, by January 1, 1994 (para. 2.44);
(1)   the Government will supervise the project implemeintation in
accordance with the Performance Plan (para. 3.8);
(m)  MOPT will carry out the road and bridge works according to the
list agreed with the Bank (paras. 4.6-4.7);
(n)   MOPT will carry out all studies and technical assistance according
to terms of reference agreed with the Bank (para. 4.14);
(o)   MOPT and the Government will conduct annual project reviews with
the Bank covering the topics of road network decentralization,
MOPT's organizational restructuring, project physical progress,
institutional improvement program, environmental mitigatory
actions, progress on the program on road user charges and the
investment and maintenance programs and their corresponding
financing plans. (para. 5.2);
(p)   the Bank will approve new sub-projects only if:  (i) MOPT submits
a satisfactory economic and environmental evaluation; (ii) MOPT
has enough financial resources to carry out the project; and (iii)
the overall execution of the project is satisfactory (paras. 5.2
and 5.12);



- 41 -
(q)   MOPT will recruit independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to
audit project expenditures, the Special Account, Project Account
and the SOE's starting with the audit for 1991 (para. 5.23); and
(r)   MOPT will implement the environmental mitigatory actions on the
Magdalena River as agreed with the Bank (para. 5.27);
6.2         As conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a)   the Project Implementation Unit within MOPT will be established,
fully staffed and in operation (para. 5.3); and
(b)   The Environment Unit within MOPT will be established, fully
staffed and in operation (para. 5.25).
6.3   As conditions for disbursement of the river training component:
(a)   MOPT will agree with the Bank on a maintenance program for the
Madgalena River (para. 2.43); and
(b)   MOPT will submit to the Bank an environmental impact assessment
i.tudy of the river training works and agree with the Bank on
proposed mitigatory actions (para. 5.27).
6.4         An action program has been agreed with MOPT to improve its
institutional capability, project planning and preparation and expedite
project execution. It will include actions to:
(a)   complete the document on road technical specifications by December
31, 1992 (para. 2.10);
(b)   complete the document on road geometric design standards by
December 31, 1992 (para 2.10);
(c)   complete the manual on engineering norms and guidelines by June
30, 1992 (para. 2.10);
(d)   put into effect the new prequalification guidelines for civil
works bidding by July 31, 1992 (para. 2.11);
(e)   complete the civil works supervision manual by June 30, 1993
(para. 2.12);
(f)   carry out an economic analysis of the whole network by December
31, 1992 (para. 2.22);
(g)   install automatic traffic counters in at least 30% of toll
stations by the end of 1992; 50Z by the end of 1993; 752 by the
end of 1994; and 100% by the end of 1995 (para. 2.27);
(h)   put into operation five sets of weighing scales by December 31,
1992, and eight additional sets by December 31, 1993 (para. 2.34);



- 42 -
(i)   nominate by September 30, 1992, a full-time employee with
experience in the area of international trade to coordinate the
intermodal facilitation training program (para 2.48);
(j)   prepare by June 30, 1993 a plan of action to facilitate
international transport procedures and regulations and implement
such plan of action (para. 2.48);
(k)   complete by June 30, 1993 the document on standards for pavement
structural design (para 4.14);
(1)   put into operation the computerized management information system
by June 30, 1993 (para. 4.14);
(m)   complete the study of the road construction industry by December
31, 1993 (para. 4.15);
(n)   complete the study on performance of road materials and pavement
by June 30, 1994 (para. 4.15);
(o)   submit engineering designs for the remaining new roads included in
the eligible list agreed during negotiations, by December 31, 1992
(para. 5.4); and
(p)   prepare the environmental guidelines for contractors by July 31,
1992 (para 5.25).
B.    Recommendation
6.5         The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$266 million equivalent on the terms and conditions set out in Chapters
I-VI of this report.



- 43 -
Table 1
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
Investment in the Transport Sector and its shar. in Public Investment*/
(in $ Col million)
Z Transp.
Rural                         Transport   Public   in Public
Year   Highwav    Roads    Ports   Railvavs        Total   Investment Investment
1986   48,669    11,035    3,207    8,922          71,833     575,100    12.5
1987   83,216    22,032    5,178    6,476         116,902     801,100    14.6
1988  127,980    20,556   14,130    7,850         170,516   1,082,800    15.7
1989  165,263    27,344    8,541   10,710         211,858   1,301,700    16.3
I Figures exclude departmental roads and aviation.
Sources: MOPT and Banco de la Repfiblica.



- 44 -
Table 2
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
Share of Tranusort in GDP by year
Year                Transport              GDP               Share
($Col mil.)        ($Col mil.)           (in Z)
1980                 140,533            1,620,111             8.7
1981                 169,787            1,982,773             8.6
1982                 207,926           2,497,298              8.3
1983                 254.255           3,054.137              8.3
1984                 317,870           3,856,584              8.2
1985                 404,730           4,965,883              8.2
1986                 527,112           6,787,956              7.8
1987                 718,432           8,779,383              8.2
1988                 958,687           11,694,607             8.2
Source:  National Depatment of Statistics.



- 45 -
Table 3
COLOMBIA
Thr at ional Roads Sec tor Proiect
Hizhway Nerwork in Km
Paved          Gravel           Earth          Total
National                 10,795          13,661           1,902          26,358
Departmental              1,162          29,544           8,558          39,264
Rural                        93          21,500           6,825          28,418
Other                       535          11.173           6.379          18.087
Total                                  75,878          23.664         112.12
National Hiahwav Network by Road Condition*/
Bad             Regular             Good              Total
Km        2        km        2        km        2        km     _
Paved       587       5.8    5,071      50.2    4,435      44.0   10,093    100.0
Unpaved   3,350      21.5   10,282      66.1    1,935      12.4   15,567    100.0
Total   3,937      15.4   15,353      59.8    6,370      24.8   25,660    100.0
*/ About 700 km of the National paved road network have not been classified
by road condition
Source: MOPT



- 46 -
Table 4
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
Freight Transport by Mode
(in Million Tons)
Year             Hi&hwgv   Railway   River   Coastal  Piveline   Air           Total
1980               36.6      1.9      4.1       1.4        N.A       0.1       44.1
1981               35.8      1.4      3.9       1.3        N.A       0.1      42.5
1982               38.1      1.1      4.1       1.2       15.0       0.1      59.6
1983               40.4      1.3      3.9       1.2       16.7       0.1      63.6
1984               42.7      1.3      5.2       1.1       19.5       0.1      69.9
1985               50.1      1.3      4.4       N.A       23.1       0.1      79.0
1986               44.4      1.2      4.8       N.A       31.6       0.1      82.1
1987               51.7      1.1      4.8       N.A       38.5       0.1      96.2
1988               51.9      0.9      4.5       N.A       39.7       0.1      97.1
1989               55.5      0.9      4.8       N.A       42.3       0.1      103.6
1989 share (Z)    53.6       0.8      4.6       -         40.9       0.1     100.0
Share (Ex. Pipe.) 90.6       1.4       7.8      -          -         0.2      100.0
Sources:  INTRA.
National Railways (FNC).
MOPT.
ECOPETROL.
DAAC.



- 47 -
Table 5
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
Passenaer Traffic by Ntode
(in million of passengers)
Year                  Hizhwav       Railway        River          Air         Total
1980                    N.A           2.2           0.5           5.2           N.A
1981                    N.A           1.7           0.7           5.7           N.A
1982                   59.8           1.2           0.7           6.5          68.2
1983                   63.3           1.3           0.8           5.9          71.3
1984                   71.4           1.4           0.8           5.7          79.3
1985                   74.5           2.4           1.1           5.8          83.8
1986                   75.0           1.5           1.2           5.7          83.4
1987                   78.2           1.5           1.1           5.8          86.6
1988                   79.9           1.3           1.1           5.7          88.0
1989                   79.3           1.2           1.2           5.8          87.5
1990                   82.6           1.1           1.2           5.8          90.7
1990 - Share (X)       91.1           1.2           1.3           6.4         100.0
Sources: INTRA.
National Railways (FNC).
MOPT.
DAMC.



- 48 -
Tab_le 6
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
National Hithway Network (1970-1986)
Year              Paved--               UnDaved_                  Total
Km           Z          KM           Z         Km            Z
1970       4,821         24.2       15,094      75.8       19,915        100%
1971       5,023         25.1       14,994      74.9       20,017        100l
1972       5,957         29.4       14,319      70.6       20,276        100l
1973       6,446         31.6      13,962       68.4       20,408        100o
1974       6,856         32.9      13,987       67.1       20,843        1002
1975       7,328         34.5       13,936      65.5       21,264        100l
1976       7,344         33.6       14,494      66.4       21,838        1002
1977       7,516         33.8       14,752      66.2       22,268        1002
1978       7,737         34.3       14,815      65.7       22,552        1002
1979       7,856         34.5       14,901      65.5       22,757        100l
1980       8,203         35.8       14,714      64.2       22,917        1002
1981       8,616         36.9       14,757      63.1       23,373        100l
1982       8,946         37.6       14,874      62.4       23,820        1002
1983       9,168         37.5       15,304      62.5       24,472        1001
1984       9,448         37.4       15,802      62.6       25,250        100%
1985       9,599         37.5       15,983      62.5       25,582        1002
1986       9,617         37.1       16,316      62.9       25,933        100l
1987       9,964         38.4       15,987      61.6       25,951        1002
1988       9,673         38.1       15,745      61.9       25,418        1002
1989       9,655         37.9       15,790      62.1       25,445        100l
1990      10,093         39.3       15,564      60.7       25,657        1002
Source: MOPT.



COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
National Hizhwav Fund - Revenues and Expenditures 1982-90
($Col million)
Source                    1985         1986         1987         1988         1989       1990           1990
Fuel Tax                 29,568       36,170       45,587       56,742       80,658     102,517         60.6
Tolls                     3,752        5,553       11,471       16,833       23,861      34,227         20.2
Sales of Services           401          681        1,201       23,455      21,133           152         0.1
Tax-private Roads            259         360          394          417          478        1,334         0.8
Loans and Credits         9,257        8,593       18,190       28,526       38,075      30,996         18.3
(of which IBRD)          (6,735)      (5,094)      (6,631)    (23,281)    (32,365)   (26,818)
Govt. Contribution         1.442       1.412        8,645        5,409        7,230         -             -
Total Sources          44,679       52,769       85,488      132,382     171,435      169,226        100.0
Applications
Construction              9,193       10,985       21,733       34,989      64,836       45,570         26.3
Rehabilitation            9,706       10,866       12,450       24,284      27,771       27,490         15.9
Paving                    3,564        4,227        8,718        9,516       12,337      11,094          6.4
Equipment                 1,518          910          634        3,805        4,907       5,924          3.4
Studies                     661          884        1,645          562        1,492       6,108          3.5
Road Maintenance         15,089       16,300       22,529       29,471      27,668       39,608         22.9
Navigation & Ports        2,257        3,095        2,911        2,758       9,777        8,195          4.7
Debt Service              2.691        5,502       14.868       26.897      22.647       29.207         17.9
Total Applications    44,679        52,769       85,488      132,382     171,435      173,196        100.0
Source: MOPT
0'
-j4



- 50 -                                       Table  8
COLOMBIA
.THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
NATIONAL HIGHWAY FUND - REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
(US$'O0O)
CONCEPT                       BUDGgT      BUDGET      ESTIMATE    ESTIMATE    ESTIMATE   T 0 T A L
1991        1992         1993         1994         1995
I N C O M E 8
1. OWN RESOURCES                                 153,656      102,610      244,928     211,329      179,554       892,078
(a) OWN REVENUES                              101,132       90,208      91,519       84,173       84,824       451,856
Tolls                                      71,106       76,591      78,889       81,256       83,693       391,535
52 Gas Guajira Tax                          1,507        1,684       1,735        1,787            0         6,712
Services                                      190          188          188         188          188           941
Other Incomes                               1,110          943          943         943          943         4,880
Ecopetrol Contributions                     9,498            0            0           0            0         9,498
FIR Orinoquic Contributions (M)            13,346       10,802       9,765            0            0        33,912
DNP Contributions (AID Grant)               4,044            0            0           0            0         4,044
Other Contributions                           333            0            0           0            0           333
tb) CAPITAL RESOURCES                          52,524       12,403     153,409      127,157       94,730       440,222
IBRD Loan 2829-CO                          30,058          114            0           0            0        30,172
IDB Loan 97 IC/CO                          10,155       4,119             0           0            0        14,274
Nev IBRD Loan                              12,240        8,169      73,054       56,979       31,125       181,567
New IDB Loan                                    0            0      78,767       68,590       62,017       209,374
Internal Credit                                71            0       1,588        1,588        1,588         4,834
2. NATIONAL TREASURY CONTRIBUTIONS               259,923      411,126      442,749     461,512      393,141    1,968,451
Ca) Highway Contribution                      234,558     387,612      414,516      461,512      393,141    1,891,339
(b) Other Resources                             1,548            0            0           0            0         1,548
tc) Department of Arauca Credit                23,817       23,514      28,233            0            0        75,564
T 9 T A L   I N C 0 H E S               413,579      513,737      687,677      672,841     572,695    2,860,529
E X P E N D I T U R E S
1. HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE                            67,051       72,486       73,047      70,613       69,697       352,895
(a) Districts' Operating Expenditures          41,897       40,133      39,788       39,867       39,944       201,628
(b) Direct Routine Maintenance Exp.            12,090       13,693      13,693       13,693       13,693        66,863
(c) Routine Maint. by Nicroempresas             5,557        9,813      13,275       12,261       11,268        52,174
Cd) Bridge Rehabilitation                         878        1,129         807          807          807         4,428
(e) Highway Safety                              2,270        1,842         841          841          841         6,634
Cf) Equipments and Workshops                    4,360       5,876        4,643        3,143        3,143        21,166
2. OTBER EXPENDITURES                             27,166       35,895       38,656      34,932       36,085       172,734
(a) Emp:.oyees' Social Welfare                    992        1,595        1,180         953          953         5,673
(b) Stulile and Technical Assietance            3,179        5,235       7,337        3,823        3,413        22,988
(c) lnudemnifications and liquidations-         2,243        1,962       1,962        1,962        1,962        10,091
td) Operating Expenditures                      8,744       15,907      16,981       16,998       18,561        77,191
Ce) Workshop & Services CBeadquaters)           1,064          982         982          982          982         4,993
tf) Contrib. to National Organizations         10,943       10,214      10,214       10,214       10,214        51,797
3. RIVER NAVIGATION & BIDRAULIC WORKS             16,644       17,316       29,941      33,913       38,576       136,390
4. 1BRD LOAN 2829/CO ROAD SU;PROJECTS             70,356            0            0            0            0       70,356
5. IDB LOAN 97 IC/CO ROAD PROJECTS                22,714       13,403            0            0            0       36,117
6. NEW IBRD LOAN                                  20,400      121,105      113,920      89,385       51,060       395,870
7. NEW IDB LOAN                                        0            0      131,078     114,433      103,478       348,989
8. PVN ROAD PROJECTS                              80,692      120,706      154,745     211,798      150,430       718,372
9. EXTERNAL DEBT SERVICE                          69,297       97,262      106,140     116,000      122,300       510,999
10.INTERNAL DEBT SERVICE                           2,095        1,248        2,152       1,767        1,069         8,332
11.PIR INTENDENCIA PROJECTS C*)                   37,163       34,316      37,998            0            0       109,476
TAL   E X P E N D IT U RE S                  413,579      513,737     687,677      672,841      572,695    2,860,529
C*) Not included in National Budget.
Updated January 17, 1992
1 USS a COLS629.8



-51 -                                   TablI  9
COLOHBTA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
Structure of Gasoline and-Diesel Prices
($Col)
Gasoline (LReular   Gasoline (Extra)             Diesel
Jan 1590  Jan 1991  Jan 1990  Jan 1991   Jan 1990  Jan 1991
Ex-Refine .y             217.93    274.60    297.60    375.32        233.71     294.47
Fuel Tax (FVN)            92.37    117.31       92.37    117.31       92.37     117.31
Sales Tax                 28.95      36.74      28.95     36.74        9.89      12.46
Tax (Departments)21         1.39      1.75       1.71      2.18         -           -
Price to Distributor    340.64    430.40    420.63    531.55         335.97     424.24
Distributor's Margin1'   20.46       27.87      27.55     37.54       27.02      36.14
Transport!'                2.90       3.73       3.82      4.91        2.01       2.62
Price at Retail          364.00    462.00    452.00    574.00        365.00     463.00
Source:  Ministrv of Mines and Enerav
1/ Includes two items which add to the price received by the refinery.
2/ Composed of two taxes, one of which is called "subsidy".
3/ Includes retail and wholesale.
4/ Includes transport from refinery and allowed product losses.



- 52 -
Table 10
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
Estimate of Road Users Costs and Charaes for 1991
(US$ million)
Expenditures                  National   Departmental  Rural   Other    Total
Highway Maintenance!'            72.4         69.4      26.9       -      168.7
Highway Improv./Rehab.V1        130.0        114.3      25.8       -      270.1
MOPT Costs                       33.4          -         -         -       33.4
Overhead                         13.5          N.A       6.5       -       25.4
Total Expenditures             249.3        83.7       59.2      _       492.2
Revenues
Tolls                            71.3          -         -         -       71.3
Licenses, fees, etc.              -            N.A       -         8.5      8.5
Other Charges                     5.8          -         -         -        5.8
Import Duties (Differential)      -            -         -       125.0    125.0
Total Revenues                  71            -         -       133.5    210.6
zz -1- 
Required Fuel Tax                              -         -         -      281.6
Consumption (in million gallons) -             -         -         -     2200.0
Tax per Gallon                                 -         -         -     $USO.12
I/ Estimate for desired level of maintenance for departmental and rural
networks.
2/ Estimate: Paving 2% of unpaved network per year for departmental and
rural networks.



- 53 -                             Table 11
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Prolect
Vehicle Fleet Composition 1985-89
Vehicle Tvye        1985         1986         1987        1988         1989
Automobiles       578,853      609,066     636,319      676,234      715,315
Jeeps             226,232      229,622     230,490      236,370      244,479
Pickups           166,858      171,564      182,230     190,791      197,917
Microbuses          4,750        5,085        5,462       5,582        5,739
Buses              66,754       67,095      67,875       69,262       71,135
Trucks            107,646      109,672      114,644     116,955      118,815
Hopper Trucks      25,585       24,893      26,023       26,631       27,218
Trailer Trucks      6,755        6,674        7,257       7,894        8,312
Other              12.569       11.619       10.517      10.227        9.938
Total      1,196,002   1,235,290   1,280,817   1,339,946   1,398,868
Source: INTRA.



- 54 -
Table 12
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Secror Project
Import/Export Traffic by Port and Year (in '000 tons)
A. IMPORTS
YEAR     TOTAL       2    BARRANQI.    2    B/VENTURA    I    CARTAGENA    :    SANTA-MA3R
1981      2,946      18.0       530      54.5    1,605      15.3       451      12.2      361
1982      3,405      18.3       623      56.2    1,915      16.0       544       9.5      323
1983      2,922      18.5       540      57.2    1,671      17.2       503       7.1      208
1984      2,723      16.4       448      53.8    1,466      18.5       503      11.3      307
1985      3,250      14.8       481      49.8    1,620      20.0       651      15.4      499
1986      2,696      13.8       373      57.0    1,536      15.7       422      13.5      365
1987      3,132      11.1       347      60.3    1,888      14.3       446      14.4      450
1988      3,525      11.5       405      60.9    2,148      14.4       507'    13.2       466
1989      3,272      12.0       393      63.1    2,066      13.4       438     11.5       376
B. EXPORTS
1981      1,145       4.9        56      59.3       679     13.8       158     22.0       252
1982      1,221       3.3        40      63.7       778     10.0       122     23.0       281
1983      1,203       3.1        37      65.1       783     17.1       205      14.8      178
1984      1,149       3.5        40      54.7       628     21.3       245     20.5       236
1985      1,311       4.0        52      57.6      755      20.2       264     18.2       239
1986      1,432       2.9        41      53.1       760     23.9       342     20.2       289
1987      1,330       4.0        53      48.9       650     26.6       353     20.6       274
1988      1,431       3.5        50      48.6       695     25.8       369     22.1       317
1989      1,660       3.4        57      48.5      804      24.7       410     23.4       388
C. TOTAL
1981      4,092      14.3       586      55.8    2,284      14.9       608      15.0      613
1982      4,625      14.3       663      58.2    2,692      14.4       666     13.1       604
1983      4,125      14.0       577      59.5    2,454      17.2       708      9.4       386
1984      3,872      12.6       488      54.1    2,094      19.3       748      14.0      542
1985      4,561      11.7       533      52.1    2,375      20.1       915     16.2       738
1986      4,128      10.0       414      55.6    2,296      18.5       764      15.8      654
1987      4,462       9.0       400      56.9    2,538      17.9       800      16.2      724
1988      4,956       9.2       455      57.4    2,843      17.7       876     15.8       782
1989      4,932       9.1       450      58.2    2,870      17.2       848     15.5       764
Source: COLPUERTOS



COLOMBIA
Third National Road Sector Project
Export and Import Traffic by type of Port Operation
(  000 tons
NATIONAL
COLPUERTCS    PORTS                                PRIVATE  DOCKS        SPECIALIZED   PORTS                          TOTAL
YEAR    BVEENT. C1GENA   STA.MAR  B/QUILA    TOTAL           2      TOTAL       2    COVENAS  P.BOLIVAR  TURWM        TOTAL     S
1980     2571       746       826       684     4827      45.2      4164      38.9     1011                 690      1701     15.9       10692
1981     2284       608       613       586     4091      39.0      4519      43.1     1067                 811      1878     17.9       10488
1982     2693       666       604      663      4626      42.9      4343     40.2      1028                 795     1023      16.9       10792
1983     2454       708       386      577      4125      32.3      5929     46.4      1942                 783     2725      21.3       12779
1984     2094       748       542      488      3872      32.1      5793     48.0      1373                1035     2405      19.9       12073
1985     2375       915       738      533      4561      31.3      5573     38.2       948      2733       759     4440      30.5       14574
1986     2296       764       654      414      4128      20.3      6273     31.0      4093      4799       964     9856      48.7       20257
1987     2538       800       724       400     4462      15.2      7848     26.8      7032      8920      1011    16963      58.0       29273
1988     2843       876       782      455      4956      15.0      6968     21.0    10772       9400      1061    21233      64.0      33157
SOURCE M NATIONAL DEPARTHENT OF PLANNINC



- 56 -
Table 14
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Pro1ect
Past and OngoinR Operations in Transport
Hiahwavs                  43-CO         1951         16.5       First Highway
84-CO        1953         14.3        Second Highway
144-CO        1956         16.5       Third Highway
05-CO/295-CO         1961        39.0        Fourth Highway
550-CO         1968        17.2        Fifth Highway
680-CO         1970        32.0        Sixth Highway
1471-CO        1977         90.0        Seventh Highway
2121-co         1982       152.3        Highway Sector
2829-CO         1987       180.3        Second Sector
Sub-Total                                     558.1
Rural Roads             1966-CO         1981        33.5        Rural Roads
2668-CO         1986        62.0        Rural Transport
3157-CO         1990        55.0        Second Rural Road
150.5
Railwavs                  68-CO         1952        25.0        First Railway
199-CO        1955         15.9       Second Railway
267-CO        1960          5.4        Third Railway
343-CO        1963         30.0        Fourth Railway
551-CO        1968         18.3        Fifth Railway
926-CO        1973         25.0        Sixth Railway
2090-CO         1981        77.0        Seventh Railway
Sub-Total                                      196.6
Domestic
Aviation                1624-CO         1978        61.0        Aviation
Loan to
PiDeline             IFC-R76-66         1976         13.0       PROMIGAS S.A.
Equity in
2.0       PROMIGAS S.A.
Sub-Total                                       15*0
Ports
Ports                   2635-CO         1985        42.8        Rehabilitation
Total                                      1024.0
Source: IBRD Files



00           CIO          010          U169o       1660        620661                                                                              1106t  (IYAm-IIEII  230 &-ov6l )   (10-69)
Ole          010          010          9l6         F699f       6`66         91       Ad     666        Dv    019   066    000.66 1-000.0  Is  666f                         UglV-oVUW       66I-49   I
010           010         010          IF6L6        010         66L666 II1                                                                                   (901106 ODu-=%W    opal
'4.4    010           010         010           6166c       00           C*166        !!      LI     01          9    6o 1           00.1200.                 09003   SYR 19001L    66-06   it
0     0:0          00:0         (99t6       669          6(C6                                                                                 69I3(21 YI06Ol  lOlto
I ...~~~~    00  00  00      1996         1666       1~~~~~~~~~~6004   _1   Ad     016        Dv    06li  016    000+10r1-2000,16    1696                   OIOZOIMMO9U01   ----------
0-t    o           00O          0.0         v6rtC6        666p      C66666                                                                               6961g  (211 92 Il6-wArom.  1)
15(60      C1:           :1:          :1:          :,1:1;:     6661         rml61        IC      Ad      066       Dv    06li  06ll    000416 1-00041f          (6EI            010 royalm 90106.     69-6    CT
(-1        010            0-0         010          ClCIu    0161C           L6601z                                                                              v9s6         (if I -orowv oLuLod)
010  010  010     1:!SO-l     6-00C        iligill      cc      Ad      016       Dv   G611  CIO        0004LC 120004669 Is   too.]             0120H 10(01           6-66
0-0           010         0I0          gle66ll      010          l6zz6                                                                               6tvIt           (060919 01d  It 10   (06-966)
010           0.0         CIO         C6fl06        0'0         6r061I       6       Ad     014        Dv    061i  6I6      00649C12*-000*19- 1   166               01(rut,911 71901(6    6696L9    C
CIO          CIO          010          r oll        V69C9      1C6991                                                        0004LLI11-000#991%   9191g               (9011341-96011)   (66-ILl)
0'0          010          010          I66M        V66l         9,1601       6?       ll     61l1T      Dv    61i   61Zc   Co-wOOF11009C611   61! ............. a                61(SZea   906666   61
0     0:0          0:60l        0:L1V                                                                                                         too6~91  0        (Y197l-Y61212)   (ligul
1100         0 0          616          6696        I*ILi1      61:6L9        6       Id     O's      ISO6   919   0161    000461 '2000 1    0                            WIVl32            L69 6
010           010         1666l        06111        6019i        6,90llZ                                                                             9i*li  (viIVE  60 1(1ar usa19Vhmo)   i96-666
010          010         9VIOl          IL t                    966161       or       Ad     low        09     li   OISE    000401P110060te6  --- 091 --------------669   (
010           0.0         0.0          0,ri6li      C66,9         '15661                                                                             vtt 6          (s32'lmRIaW62w1214)   (6
00     00          0.0~~~~Ol    1666         *60          O66          0       Ira     L961      Dv    419   0696    000469191-000#09tl   COS62U3-V11                                6-0 
010          CIO        .ll%`6         010          010         61646                                                        000#00I1200049S6V1   966t  tounam I1(01lW-vIIlvOOI           (66-16)
010           010         6666f        00           010         Z66         19       Ad     666        D     O1 lt ai 01    00 .0 2-0004612 16                       2900Y01110            6699 6
-------------------------------------------                                      -------------------   ---------
010           010         91t6691      06661        SIM1        IU6616                                                                                              (93(03 OIW11VVY131
010           010         r9col601 9soL               9V6         vV1611     96       Ad     109        Dv    Olt   flit    06616  110004,0   I    -                 1d00101001Ar111    'P12 Ml (1
010           010         010          V6'091       16001c       6-1696                                                      00'416 '1-000+0         61         (12691fd3041)               9-06
010           010         010          %,$co,       06911l       6606l    low        Xl     [Ll        Dv    6'L   6ll66    006+06112-4004bill   666:'  731b60210SnfllJ                     666
0.0          010          CIO         CE666         C 6661i   r01i01                                                                                 006                (S3OdMIVS-211 VI)  (96-666)
010           010         0.0          V661!        1:16        96l0111      66      im       660       0     t'    CR9     009419113-009*611P2   666               OMlUOIS-N1TU023        CO669   i
0Ol          010          0,1611       6060?        C661         66611l                                                      00040162,006+11  2 96661(saals.oloys,    (go-sit)
010           010          6l61t       660           *Il         01'         Et       In1    616g       Dv    Z1   0Oll   0090Z61061                  6            0UIIVIAl-A                 6l 
010           010          1666O       I11l69       6*61Zl      1*666*                                                       I6E499  1-669+41   I   9991          (216fl901-061610 12    (so-got)
CIO                         L6       ~    66         'o          C16          6       Ade    11      .160    Olt   016t    6691112000100112  66                          0301111-06LS      66-066   61
0     0:0           010         6,6691       0,60L        6,1066I                                                                             916*         (vIGIEZ  VI'211A101)   (666
00  00    00           6190~~~~~~~~I  6'966      C1161~vts'  Et       Ad     Ill      A11     o*  C096    1199 12'699+6v 12  it6                         009MOLS9dv   so66    6. V
00     Pill         C6~~~~1106   vC61 I      O06661       vzr1p6                                                                              ol0l*i             (YlUOOSO-0OAVU)   (66-661)
00     6l66         P~~~~~9906   PIe'        VL6            V660       VI      Ad      Solt      Dv    Olt   "tit   00040   1-029+4lIPI  0oWl              WdAVIOSW-1aY                6069   It
010           010         010          016961       01C0911      0666'6c                                                                             L06'?       (109N209uml-ow9  VI)   (66961i)
010          000           0           061          660l         P66?         6       314    %16'L      Dv    1    0L16    000+61P1'2000#1912 i Ul                        vtUl-1JODOt    l6766   I
010           010         00C          661         TIML         9616s'I                                                                             160'?          MWAVIC1119lTflD III9u)
010           0'0         0'0          6'06         666                                                       Olt A  66 0   0 19 Ol    0191 '1000+0  "A  991          09191IYo621111...1      2 6 --- 6
0-           o 0 00       00           vo661        06161       W66051                                                                               69,9'1       (OLUIIIOIIY-YrLhaw)   (96666t)
010          010           010          6616t       0666         01066       of       Ad      669'6    09    Olt   V0l    009401  l'000               1                       -V1011911 IW0  so-cgs9
0'0          010          0.0          0966i        0'666        t116                                                                                6666t       (39090  s6v90-WMMA9)   (Vus-tit)
0o0          010          0-0          W166         09*6c        0g19        6-9      Ad     tit        *T    Olt   VOle    069.61013-000.110U   16                     0660Jw176103        66666   I
---- -.....---                                ---------   ------------------- -     -       ---                            -
010          010           010        C1661'        069          6699t                                                                              0911 te      (osao$-vu2J6601  91)   (66-099)
00     010         010         f69L6'1       ,606         0,169'I      6      Ad      166     .16     0.9   6.'99    00640101-00046 'I   666                   INDS11053113M3    666999   I
CIO          0.0          CIO          9166?        1966        TIM9                                                                                660         (91ua01  vin-uoim  VI)   !16-611)
0.0           010          0.0         601          16            66         6        A        6         0    0      01       666   '*000'            66aolo-rrOI                             66
(oooISSa)    (coIosso)   (oooissa)   (COGISSO)   (00OldSa    (ocoISso)                                                                             (oooltsfl)                             6IA120S)  A
(mornimS)   (morimXs)  (mYinINs)  660orni3(S    mm6iTms)  (601111HS)  ()    TAM    (,VP/&)   2da.   (a)    (M)                 QL   -   mu        (uowlhiS)           (amli06s)           I sno    I
2AU39013        1I 6Mr    11   OlSODOU    JAI9  2041A61  MWIOI   UASUI          UDuvoOI         .1091.16             0a0                 6363)    1
6661 'AU1    6661 'AM    6661 'AI1   1661  *1I   1661 'MN  .1.63 'IV=.                                                                              19310160                               .1091160   C
(_ _  1666) 191001  192u  muI
(6661-1661) 1116001 TM3 'tOO
00-6166 NM0  12096 QUVIZ1116  61112 09M
.L2fOl 11s2 S0G0  'IIUVE (ml".
9163010



CMMIA
TOIRD WATIOUL ROADS smm PROJECT
RUD VMS totTlam IMMER LOAN 2829-co
rm TM TROGIM
FIIST TM PROCKM 11"2)
a  CUATRW                                     MtoiNiL                                                                                 IMAL CM          IRV. 1991    IW. 1992    tff. M3    IRV. IM            UR. 1995
t imta                                        CONTRACT          LOUTUM            LMM  WFUTISURFACE  Avr  FROMED m                          imitt  RETRawrivx
3    wow $              tsmw On              (Snmtop)    rm            -    20     (go)    (a)    TM         twida7)    WOU     (2)  (SHILLION)  (SELLION)  0MILLION)  1"MIGN)  contLts"                        twttLia"
T  SVPEKTJ                                   tosisoo)                                                                                 050900)   fussion)    lussledo)-tos$1090)    tussioool    (OS$lOOo)
WEIVA-10FAXAM                                20#000-9. 53*500    33.3    7.0    AC                               31       1,443.1         604.6         159.1                                        OW
4"3451   nUUtWO-PATCOL)                      6.426                                      -                                             2."2.3        1."J.9        1.205.3           0.0           0.0            0.0
............. . .  .....................                                                                                                                        .  ............. -  ------- - - ----
3    476-63    s           mAnAMPUU               4"    K. 69*30".113#000,   "J                 7.2    AC    1.9"       n        27      4.143.9           52 4        237.2         014.3       1.236.0            0.0
(513-46)    (IEL CAMUN-CAIRM)               2.113                                                                                     6,579.7       11,33 4       1 964.4       I.m $        1.962.S             0.0
.. . ............. . . . . . . .                                                                                                                           --------------------- . ......
cittqinNMU-SAMU                 1.028   K.  0"004L. MM              35.0    *.O    DST         "3       rv       as       1,236.6         744.9        491.3            0.0           0.0            0.0
tcxtquuhMRA-FM  MM) .... 2,306----                                                     -    -  - - ------- - ----------                                780.4           0.0           0.0            0.0
v-sono                    349    K. 42+150-9. 64#130    4k.5    7.0    AC              432               29                                         5
(BAROM-CISHERN)                 3.149   It.  04ON-R. 10#500                                                              2.311.9            9.3      2 $63.4           0.0           0.0            0.0
..... . .........                        -;;;O                                                                                ------ ----- 1---- -  --                   - ----- -07
(40-84)    KWROOO-779 COSOXALI              4,100                                                                                     2.552.1       1.253.1       1.298.3           0.0           0.0            0.0
........ . ...                                                                                                                 - ---  - - - -------- ------- -
(427-141    trm  COROZAL-EL Clano)           3.330                                                                                    1.140.4         103.9       1,036.0           N             0.0            0.0
------------------- -  ----- - ----- - - - - - - - --------- - ---- -                                                                  ----------------                         ---------- - - ----
;;;:;;---M-EDELLtw-4I1C9Lzjr0                 Sll   9.  8#721-9.11$#300    106.6    7.3    AC           2,562      in        24      6.615.9         540.1         643.0       2.505.7      2.596.4         1,320.1.
(62S-84)                                                                                                                             13.600.4         411.2       2 608.6       3.976.6      4.125.9         2."G.1
--- - ------ - ----------- - - - - --------------------------------- - -------- - --- ------                             ------------------
R. 32+000-1. $5*563    $3.6  6.00    AC              558      PV        33       5066.1          $6.O           0.0      2.731.4       2.248.7             0.0
trimPA-SANTANDER1                                                                                                        8.044.0          136.6          0.0       4.3316.9      3,Slo 5            0.0
--------- - -- - -------         -  ------
656-84    CARM-90SCOMIA-WIPAR                    299   I*--;;;;;Z    4;.                                                               4                                                                           0.0
(Calm-IMUND)                    2.414                                                                                    ?.:,.O        3.0:3.7       4.021.1       1: 6211 : 3'   '06'Ki            0.0
------------------------- ----------- -  ------ - - --- - - - - --- - ---------- - ---------------------- - -----
4    562-84    TUNJA4M                            214           000-9    $090    37.8  7.00    AC            1,022      Rs       27         755.1         202.1        $53.0            0.0           0.0            0.0
Sol-04)   ITMJA-Vl"                                  ': .,
IM      LLITA)        21433   c      *'300-9  76+750                                                           1,199.0         320.9         M. I            0.0           0.0            0.0
--    -----------------                              - -------------------------------------------------- - -- -------------------------------------------
5-         i;;;&:;7tUAV0                      251    1. 2640004. WOOD    42.0    7.3    AC              3.02 I     an        25      2.331.2         44i.2         942.6         940.0           0.0            0.0               00
(Cmt?AQK-K til                  3.163                                                                                    3. 702.4         700.5      1.496.7       I.M.2             0.0            0.0                I
---- - ---- iW4 ...                                  K; ---- W'-i:;;;"-;i ------- ----- ;-.;;;:i -----                               ------- :-;;:; ------ - - ;---    -------
12    463-05    imici-sia, anA                                                                                                    22                                         9      1 4                  0
(326-06)   (50  UqUE-DOSCOMIA)               6,232    9.  0*000-1.  2+00                                                              5.134.2       2.003.6         640.4       2.382.0           0.0            0.0
-------- - -- - ------ - ------------- - --------- -----------
35      2.716.3         662.4         647.5      1,008.4            0.0            0.0
(261-831   tRIOLOW-PITALTY03                 9,067                                                                                    4.316.1       3.369.3                                       0.0            0.0
... . ................... .  .......... . ...................................... . ... . . ... . . ............ . .................... . ...........                    ------- .  ............... -  -----
ocah-coma                         478    9.2030000-K.1,00#000    $3.0    ?.O    AC             360      PV       23       1,014.3         $35.7      1,235.6            0.0          0.0            0.0
(614-84)   COCARA-21, TARPA)                 5,439                                                                                    2.976.0       1.014.1       1.*61.9           0.0           0.0            0.0
----------------------------------- - - - --- - ------------------------------------------------------------ - ------------------------ - - ----------- - ------
is    267-83    BIKUIGA-COMA                        422    K.  OOM-K. 50#000    50.0    7.3    AC             1.013      lm       22       1.224.2      1.123.5          200.7           0.0          0.0            0.0
ISMANGA-EL FICACHO)             3,240                                                                                    1,943.0       1.783.9         15$.9           0.0           0.0            0.0
i;      :;;;;R ------------ - --                                                    iE ----- i5ii ----- ii ------- 2i ----- ;-.i;i:i ----- i-.;;$:i ------- ;W; --------- K; --------- ;:;7 --------- ;-.;-
(EL FICACM-PANFLMA)            11.005                                                                                    1,463.2       Z.M.3           733.7           0.0           0.0            0.0
------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------- -  ----------------                                                                          - ---------------- - ------
MEMULIN                                                                                                                                                 $48.8      1.106.1         000.4             0.0
UX IDQ                    492   K.  9#300-1. 23+500    16.0   6.6           DST        317      rw       10      3.386.9          551.6
(NEW  I      salvAR)            2,157                                                                                    5.340.9         cis 9       1.341.7       1.159.4       1.398.0            0.0
--------------------------------------------------------- - --------------------------------------------------------------- :---------------------------------------------------
;7,;:;;    RDOOLIND-RIOSOCIO                2.663    K.  0+OD0-K. 49*000    49.0    6.6    Dsr            317                to     10.286.9         092.0      2,317.6       2.462.7       2.300.0        2.013.7
(RIIW UO-JARDIN)                6,154                                                                                   16.333.4       1.516.4       3,6?*. It     3,910 :3     3.969.6         3.191.4
-6  -T- -to- N- -c A- L- - -n-a- -. -m- - I o---- - -- - ----------- K -1 -0 -2 -t -010 -0 -- 1--. -1 -2 -2 4- -5 -0 -0 ----- 20--.5-750- ---- A-C -------- 9-i-O ------ --------- 3-2 ------- 22-4-8-53 --- 1-2-6-0-:0 -------- 6-25-5--    -1534-351 --------- 0--.O ------------ 0:0--
(9.102-RA LIZANA)                                                                                                        3.569.9         444.6         992.4       2,132.1           0.0            0.0
- -- - ----------- - ----------- - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - -----------------------
Is    960-89    TROWAL MA. HMO                     99:    K. 16#900-K. 27#010         0.1  7.30    AC           910      NC       32      1,362.1            0.0      1.362.1           0.0      .    0.0            0.0
(SAII ium  -K 27)               2.32                                                                                     2.162.8           0.0       2.162.6           0.0           0.0            0.0        00
0)
T 0 T A L                                                1.962.2 km                                           $101,379.2   $24.968.9   $43.201.2   $il.316.9   $10.360.1               $3.333.8
160 970.5    39.645.0    68.595.0    30.671.5    16,161.3               5,293.4
FIRM=    IIT Lon  2829-a  (tiss-000)                                                                                    2.: ":O                                                      0.0            ": 00
RETROWTIVE WIUWIM  tOSSIO00)                                                                                            I..,45 7    1 45                                             0.0                       N)
PIMACED 51 TIM MMED PROJECT (US$-000)                                                                                  .9,010.5    16.54S.?    66.595.0    ".671.3    16.767.3                  5.793.4        0
t"
SMACZ TTPEs  AC    Ampbalt Concrete                                                        PROMED VUKo   IN   Robabilitation                                      AVr - Average Daily Traffic
DST   Umble Surtat. Treatment                                                                 RC   leconstnmtioa                                En  - Zecomic Rate of 1tatura                                  JS
OAT   Other Asphalt Troateent                                                                Ow   Overlay
PM    Fortlemw Comat Cotiersto                                                               PT   Pavlas
GR    Gravel                                                                                  K        now ucaotxmtlm



COLOIANI
T11RD NATIOAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
KOM WORS INITIATED WITH Pi'S  U 81DS
FOUt YEAt PICCRSA (1992-18915
CUOTRACTS TO BE FIRANC   PM jR  l
D CORACT                               OTtCtlAL                                                                   TOTAL COST  INV. 1993  13. 1"2   in. 1993   am. 1"4    M31. 1995
HtUMSER               ROAD            CONTRACr        LOCATION          OI     M IDT S1 UA6CR    Aer AM  DE05CD   m    .193    PiTIoATIVE
S  YOlKS I           (SECTION)        (SIIILLION)   FMO    -  TO       (KE)   (a)  TYPE  (vlday)  Volt   (1)  (PILU.0ON)  0M3ILLIOU)  (SIIILTIW) (SNILLION)   MM IUON    (51111L108)
r  (supERY.3                           (S$1000)                                                                   (US30003   (nr$1000   (US$1000)   (S$3000)  (U$1000)1  (US$30003
Iil 868.89   IOCOU4fDELL  3,399   R. 6040004-. SO00   28.0  7.3   AC                   in      31    2.703.2          0.0       362.0     t81.5         928.5       621.2
(&60.CAOI AL.EGA 14.TIttU0  3.698                                                                      0."292.         0.0       514.6     3,250.4     1.414.3       992.1
I  462.86   tEEDfl.LSN.tUI8O               902  F. 3319604. 15.000    18.9 s    .0   AC               71 16    2,327.6               0.0     13147.3       688.5      491.6          0.0
(610-.0)   (SAA Fe DE A..CATI0)       .1                                                                           ,695.6         0.0     1.821.7     1.093.2       M.9           0.0
T 0 T A L                                          46.9 hk                      (Mllion)        S).03.6        $0.0          $1se l5  S.476.0   51.420.3      $125.2
(9S$1000)      1,997.9         0.0    2.S96.5    2.503.6    2,251.2          992.7
SA2CR TNsm. AC   A pbalt Concete                                             PMOPOSED W11   RH - Rehabilitation                           AVr  A vratg Daily Traffe;
DST - Donbl. Surface Treatmtnt                                                  RC - Rconstruction                         Eua    2tnalc late of  tuorn
OAT - Other epbalt Treatuant                                                   Ov   verlay
FcM . Portland Cemet Concrete                                                   PT   Paving
GI   Cravl                                                                      MC - NU  Conetruetion
eo
00
ii



THIltD NATIONAL ROADS SECtO  PROJCT
ROAD 30153 WN  INITIATED (MU CONTRACTS)
10131lu TSRO35014)(1192-1995)
IFIRST Tl    P0O.M  (1992)
TOTAL COST  1N. 1992   INV. 1993   13N. 1994    1NV. 199S   IV. 3996
DISTUtICT               Oam                              LOCATION        LENGT   VIDTH SURFACE   AUT   PROPOSE   EAR    JUN19)
(No.)              (SECTION)                          t(        T0       (VA)    (a) T0t t     (viday)   WORK    (1)  (S1ILLION)  (SICILLION)  (SNILICO)  (WUILION)I  ($tLION)   (g(IILION)
CUS$1000)   (US$1OO)   (USS300)   US$1000)    (US$3l0o)    (US$3000)
5         3IANIZALES-PSIEIRA                    K.1*232-1.7t711          6.3  7.00    AC                NC       39     2,875.3        857.7     2.017.6          0.0           0.0          0.0
(VARIANT  CNtlCBINA)                                                                                         4*563.4      1,361.9      3,203.6         0.0           0.0           0.0
_______________________--------------- -                                       ----   ------- . ..... _________________ .............................. -----------_____________________ - ------------ - -----------......................... ______._._._________ -.__________________---_________.
13          OCOTA-VlIAVICENCIO                   .102*380-4.117*360    15.0  7.30        C               N0C 52          5.93 .0        243.7     1.191.?      1,720.3       1,926.3          0.0
(VA RT  DM MRADOI)                                                                                            8.070.8       36.9*    1.193.6       2.731.5       30358.6           0.0
5         3(ANIZALES-PS9ElI1A                   L*0+000.4.13t000        15.0  7.30    ac                NC       39     5 290.9      1,624.4     2.4)6.6        301.3       1,044.6          0.0
(VARtASE LA U1ELt-EL POL0W1                                                                                   B.400.9     2,579.2      3.,99.6       294.2       1.56.6          0.0
19        IUOA.IUflIAVEIrTUIA                    L54*000-L134,000        60.0  7.30    AC                IN       31     3,909.1      13565.6     2,39.5           0.0          0.0           0.0
(lO900UE9RRRO-UEAIATUA)                                                                                      6,333.9      2,533.5      3,00.14         0.0           0.0          0.0
SUATOTAL  I3ST TSAR PlOl    (1992)                                                       ($1llion)          17,239.3     4,323.4 5     ,049.4      1.905.6 2t*70.i                0.0
(Us$-000)        27.371.1      6.911.s    12,169.6      3,0235.7     4.717.2           0.0
SECOND TSEA  PRORA3M (1993)
TOrAL COST  1iV. 1992   IIV. 1993  INV. 1994   IV. 1995    I3V. 1996
DISTRICT                RtOAD                            LOCATION        LET   VITM  SUFACE   ADT   PROPOSED  EiR   JUN191
(No.)               (SECTION)                        PM    -   TO        (9.)    (a)  TYtPE   (v1d1y)   3301    (2)  (SIILLtON)  ($nIILUON)  (S14L1011)  (SnILLION)   (SNIELION)   MS3UMlIC
(US$1000)   (US$1OOO    (USS1000)   (US$1000)   (USs10oo)    (USsooo)
i         i NAIZ  S.Pt .EiR    ;                i.0o; o0 i 6 500         6.5  7.00    AC                NC       39     5,049.7          0.0       962.1      2.07D.3      2.135.9           0.0
(VARIANTS SANTA ROSA)                                                                                         S.036.4         0.0      1,349.6     3.2mz.        3,359.5          0.0-
17         SOCOTA-lEDLLll                       L.O+OOO-K.34000           3.0  s.o0   AC                 NC       33       M53.6         0.0        363.6          0.0          0.0           0.0
(VARANTE LA DORADAI)                                                                                             71.3         0.0 71.3                0.0           0.0          0.0
-~~~~~~~~~L ---------                                                                  --     ----    ...---                 -----K;------                       --------5--- -0----
5         i  12 ES 3W PSZEiiA                   i.i;iiii.i;;;o6          1.7  7.00    AC                NC       i9i    6;;i6.;          0.0       970.9         232       2 372.2       1.9(i.9
(CONEX. VTES. CH1NCU1XA-STA ROSA)                                                                            11,014.0         0.0      1,345.4     2,747.1       3,717.4      2.935.7
I         3ISDSLL1U.TUR3O8                      :.oooo-R.71.o00         71.0  6.50    bC                tH1      61     3,777.0          0.0       431.3        716.9      1 581.5       1.OS5.3
(SAN C9.ISTOBAL-STA bE ANTl1Ot3AU)                                                                           '.997.3          0.0        694.6     3,141.5       2.S11.1      1.S59.7
15         TlU3NJ-3UCARANANGR                   S.04000.S.681000        104.0  6.00    AC      2,667     RH3      50     6,125.6         0.0        662.5      1,984.1      2,156.6       1,122.4
(TUNJA-VADO REAL)                    1.0*000-1.36*000                                                        9,726.3          0.0      1,369.5     3,150.4       3,424.3      1.762.2
S         6000TA-C3tAcIlA                       1.30000-.03430          33.4  7.00    AC        538              44     1,256.4          0.0       433.4        623.0          0.0           0.0
(MM1 S0..oAC33E)                                                                                              1,994.9         0.0       465.0      1,309.9           0.0          0.0
I         IlEDEUlt.loSINCEI.Jo                  1.1353300-K .175+960    60.6  7.30    AC      1,909     RU       24     4,158.9          0.0       517.6    13033.1        1,552.7       1.053.5
(110 NtCI-9T0. VALDIVIA)                                                                                     4,603.5          0.0        921.8     1.6(3.5       2,465.4      1.672.5
16         sARAVENA. CllNACOTA-CUTA             t1.32000-R.52s000        20.0  6.00    AC                91       27     1.624.7          0.0       3159.5      718.9         746.3           0.0
(gm 32-TOLEDO)                                                                                               2,897.3          0.0       570.6      1.141.5       1.165.0          0.0
SUTTA   ECOND TEAR PROGUI (1993)                                                     ($(illlgoo)        29.473.?         0.0      4.799.0     9,077.3      10.523.1       5,070.1
(US0ooO)         46,795.3          0.0     1,619.9    14.4U1.3    1i,7513.         8.050.3
T 0 T* 1A    19 9    2 - I t 1    3                                                    (S3lit31on)       46.710.0      4.321.4    12.639.4    10,91.1       13,496.0       5.0tO.I
(USS000)        74.166.4      6,864.3    20,386.5    17,439.0      21.429.0      8*010.)
503A1C* TIPEi  AC  * Aphslt Coneret                                               P!OPOSED   KK    99 * Rlbabllltatlon               AM  - Average Daily traffic
tST * Duole Surfece Tratm_nt                                                         C   R ecoastruction              En - Sceme iRat. of Return                                            t1
OAT - Other Aephult Trestmnt                                                        01 - Overlay                                                                                             ID
FCC . Portland Ce_ent Concerate                                                     P    paving
ORl   Gravel                                                                        NC   N o3w CotaetuctioO
iit



- 61 -
-   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -~~~-- -
- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -   - -
-     -  -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -   ---- N--
---- fl_           ---o-|---                 a-I
!3Cef        l  cn   O l    f nN I I I       ft -I
C fi~wCON. a =  n              o o t  on  - 3.m'..A    a,
I   u    i   - --n-- -r            - - - - - - - - - - --n
g      g12*      oo o n@Wn.     ;ONCO   N O    C.  .;   ..  .
Eg ~ ~ ~~ C   Ct CCfi .    sa            SN"a   ata*s R  .
WEI _    SSE""   9RX"YR                                      .
ii ~ ~     ~     C.. .- Ui   N  tt P   *N  s    6 3     nU~    ;5~^       
j:                                                 e  5at  ; 
3  &    g00| X  j0    ,                                3~~~
|  gI  0gSg|gg ,wf|3! 11B                               sB4
z~~ ~l Za0030gtX1                                   aaiiz 
,  Zd     SvloS         oSSN
. 00     atClCN..Natna.t..N..l.f,fl. I 
; .  ^ nn w  n  " ^3 ^  ^ ** ~--  _ | _



- 62 -
TABLE 17
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
SAFETY PROGRAM
(1992-1995)
LENGTH (Ka)          VERTICAL SIGNALS        ROAD MARKS               BARFIZRS
TOTAL                LENGTH 0F
TYn  0  HIGNWAAY         D     RUA=   TOTA    SINALS   COST USfS  LINZ J xL    COST USS  LUCTO (")   COST USS
lot Yr. Proaram (1992)
Main Trunk Roads       4,443   2,267   6,710   1,756    153,761.27    802    913,825.94            0         0.00
Main Side Roads        3,933   5,123   9,056   1,404    125,458.18    502    572,467.54            0         0.00
Regional Trunk Roads    448   1,589   2,037       118      10,438.30     28      31,730.77         0         0.00
Regional Side Road$       92     749      841      11         733.41      5       5,355.83         0         0.00
Urban By-pass Roads      214     184      399      15       1,576.83     17      19,402.25         0         0.00
branches                 942   5,192   6,134       75       6,627.77     68      77,609.02        0          0.00
Sub-branches              85     379      464      16       1,404.24     26      29,608.65         0         0.00
TOTAL (1992)          10,157  15,483  25,641   3,395    300,000.00  1,.448  1,650,000.00           0         0.00
$OTAL 1992 Prorarms             USSI,950,000
2nd Yr. Program (1993)
Main Trunk Roads       4,443   2,267   6,710    2,341   205,015.05        0           0.00   15,500   258,333.33
Main Side Roads        3,933   5,123   9,056    1,872   167,277.58        0           0.00   14,500   241,666.67
Regional Truak Roads    448   1,589   2,037        157    13,917.73       0           0.00        0          0.00
Regional Side Roads       92     749      841       14        977.88      0           0.00        0          0.00
Urban By-pass Roads      214     184      399       21      2,102.43      0           0.00         0         0.00
Branches                 942   5,192   6,134       100      8,837.02      0           0.00         0         0.00
Sub-branches              85     379      464       21      1,872.31      0           0.00        0          0.00
TOTAL (1993)          10,157  15,483  25,641    4,526   400,000.00        0           0.00   30,000   500,000.00
TOTAL 1993 Program:               US$900,000
3rd Yr. Proaram (1994)
Main Trunk Roads       4,443   2,267   6,710   3,512    307,522.57    890  1,013,825.94            0         0.00
Main Side Roads        3,933   5,123   9,056   2,807    250,916.37    590    672,467.54            0         0.00
Regional Trunk Roads    448   1,589   2,037       235      20,876.59     28      31,730.77         0         0.00
Regional Side Roads       92     749      841      22       1,466.81      5       5,355.83        0          0.00
Urban By-pass Roads      214     184      399      31       3,153.65     17      19,402.25        0          0.00
Branches                 942   5,192   6,134      150      13,255.54     68      77,609.02        0          0.00
Sub-branes                85     379      464      31       2,808.47     26       29,608.65       0          0.00
TOTAL (1994)          10,157  15,483  25,641   6,788    600,000.00  1,624  1,850,000.00           0          0.00
TOTAL 1994 Program:             US$2,450,000
4th Yr. Proaram (1995)
Main Trunk Roads       4,443   2,267   6,710   4,097    358,776.33        0           0.00         0         0.00
Main Side Roads        3,933   5,123   9,056   3,275    292,735.77        0           0.00         0         0.00
Regional Trunk Roads    448   1,589   2,037       275      24,356.02      0           0.00         0         0.00
Regional Side Roads       92     749      841      25       1,711.28      0           0.00         0         0.00
Urban By-pass Roads      214     184      399      36       3,679.26      0           0.00        0          0.00
Branches                 942   5,192   6,134      175      15,464.79      0           0.00        0          0.00
Sub-branches              85     379      464      37       3,276.55      0           0.00        0          0.00
TOTAL (1995)          10,157  15,483  25,641   7,920    700,000.00        0           0.00         0         0.00
TOTAL 1995 Program:               US$700,000
--_-----_--_--------------------------------------------..--..--.....-....--..----------___----.___________.
TOTALS (1992-1995):  10,157  15,483  25,641  22,641  2,000,000.00  2,896  3,500,000.00   30,000   500,000.00
GRAND TOTAL: US$ 6,000,000



COL&MIA
90WBT? ODTA9T AT 1695 (1993-969
PUGUTACT           I   399I                   9920a                          19                I 2994                   39939                      399GRAND   TOT&L
tBID rlU   1990   Ml   ITATL    19&0   flU    TUTU.   I113    IVU    TTAI    I=31    1                TOTAL    I99     2VX    TOTAL    210    1W       ToTm      t910    1W     TAL
I. CIVIL WUll
-lood proj..t. 21929.0   00   40  31.121   1.419  39141.4  41,1,1  27.430  49.19 183.40   12,249  30.713  10.040   4.10?  14.161   3.174   2.11?   SM29             0        0       0   3.924  31.949 114.8)3
-.90.d "eject. 29        de 40 4       0       0        0   3*439     919   2.396   1.406       931   2.144   3.3113     902   2.211     194      391     993       a            0   0 4.193   3.391   ?.999
-kor.. Rood Project.    60   40        a       a        0   4,311   2.745   4,062  12,233   9,911  to. 39   l0.441   6.916  17.439  12.951   9.S11  23.4311  4*9S    3,220   9.010  44.100  29.601  73.194
.5:141.,                 t0   40       0       0        0   2.371   3.4190   3.911   2.409   3,609   4.031   3,042      4951 3131          0        0       0       0        a       0   3.932   3.699  .9.703
-1otvr Trolotog          60   40       0       0        0   1.940   3.293   3,231   ,6969   1.166  14.415  1.311 31,513   9,913            a        0       0       0        0       0a3.1.60  t0.640  24.600
-Projects to 5. 0.13.01 60   40        0       0        0       3.       0       0   2.322   4.992  12,204   9.163   4,101  36,260   3.S33   3.742   9.331   2.939   3.939   4.499  21.631  11.010  62.121
SUBTOAL CUlL 39015g               311121   1.419  19.344  13,023  34.013  91.031  50.421 33.634  04.036  39.031 23.141  S3,4131 22.242  14.492911 .070   1,749   5,119  12.9491 190.633 U10.422 303.03
It. EOMN=
4Who  od H.1.....       200    0       0       0        0  31,492        0  31,962   71004        0   1.004   4.314        0   4.314       0        a       0       a       0        0  29.000       0  9.000           0'
-&.LaOrutegy  0.t.r33e3too    0        0       0        0       0       0              So0        0~  300         0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0     300       0      s30 
-.Asi .l.Vo3t Gomutol, 00    0         0       0        0       0       0            3.000        0   3.9000      0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0   3.000      0a 3.00. 
SUBOAL. ZWinMI                         0       0        0  31.402       0  317.62   9.304         0   9.104   4,334        0   4.314       a       0        0       0       0        0  30.300      0a94.100
3l. we amT                  300    0       0        0       0   1.930        031.930       900        0     9002.450           0 2,430       100        0     7D00      0       0        0   6.000       09;.000
IV. IISTITUiM3L thu1G.00
T133
. T.c5.3o.I A.63.t.u..00    0          0       0       0      163       0     341      12        0      521      t0       0      40        0       0       0        0       a       0 1.310         0a 3.330
.0Studio*               390    0       0       0       0      723       0      131     311       0     31       t00       0      300       0       0       0        9       0       0 13.230        0a 1.330
.?Trsoltg I Loe.l       41   31        0       2        a     J31      AM     230      343      99      IS 230   343     9      210      393      so     250       0            0   0     43       .10   3.009
. Tra.o1    IAbroad    300    0       0       0       0      331       0     233      30"1      0     201      260       0     260      290       0     269       0        0       0   3,340        0   3.360
*      .?ralologAhde            t0 o          0       0        0     270      s0     300       21       3       J0      to       2      20       3s       2      20       a        S       a      M3       31     110o
SUBOTAL 3lot. S1`11G.                  0       0       0   2.049      339   2.130   t,391       93   3.491      401      90     490      443      90     13         a       9       0 4.403        Si?  4.939
W. P3151CAL C9U3TIUCI9                1.333     142   1.951   3.102   3.401  9,304   3,042   $.Ml3  0.404   3.001   2.537   4.342   2.224   3,491   3.701            711    513   3.29 1S3.063  32.042  30.106
S U B T 0 9 A L                   32,340   9.140  30,400  12.904  217.334  311.339  49.262  31.044 103.320  49.221 27.994  71.214  23,607  14.400  42.001   9,144   1.69  134.243 219.600 332.913 3322.13
VT. PUG!E CON1l10 m V                      0       0        0   J.M9   1.917   5,167   4.133   1.799  10.391   .1,19   4.432  32,3131  3.33    3,134   9.033  2.361  3.M1   3.935  26.320  33.19? 63.2131  ~
------ ------------------   --------     ----------     ---------------------.--------.------.-------.---.------                                       . .--- .----- -   --- - --.
TO 0   A L                  32.240   9.340  20.400  93.494  29.493 323.103  13.034  40,646 333.920  56.919  32.406  99,391  33.123  39.923  33.060  30.907   7.271  19.1394 246,000 349.049 434.049



COLOM B IA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
VEHICLE OPZRATiNG COST ON PAVED ROADS
SCOL  PER VEHICLE - KM                                       US$ PER VEHICLE - KM
Small                       Small    Medium   Large       Small                       Small    Medium      Large
Car     Pick-un    Bus    Truck    Truck    Truck         Car     Pick-up    Bus    Truck       Truck     Truck
PLAIN
Good condition        72         97      296      127      242       376      0.13       0.17     0.51      0.22      0.42      0.65
Regular Condition    94         131      359      164      299       462      0.16       0.23     0.62      0.29      0.50      0.80
Bad Condition        129        185      463      211      368       566      0.22       0.32     0.81      0.37      0.64      0.98
BILLY
Good condition        86        118      395      162      298       496      0.15       0.21     0.69      0.28      0.52      0.86               1
a%
Js
Regular Condition    103        144      436      201      355       568      0.18       0.25     0.76      0.35      0.62      0.99
Bad Condition         133       192      517      246      418       653      0.23       0.33     0.90      0.43      0.73      1.14
MOUNTAINOUS
Good condition        99        138      546      244      409       714      0.17       0.24     0.95      0.42      0.71      1.24
Regular Condition   113         160      577      285      466       788      0.20       0.28     1.00      0.50      0.81      1.37
Bad Condition        139        203      639      329      527       871      0.24       0.35     1.11      0.57      0.92      1.51
,.OIa-3
2011
m o_
I/  As of January 1991; exchange rate of $COL 575 - US$1.00; Costs are economic costs.
2: i



COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
VE8ICLE OPERATING COST ON UNPAVED ROADS
SCOL  PER VEHICLE - KM                                       USS PER VEHICLE - KM
Small                        Small    Medium   Large       Small                         Small   Medium       Large
Car     Pick-up    Bus    Truck    Truck    Truck          Car      Pick-up    Bus    Truck       Truck      Truck
PLAIN
Gco. c-andition        88        123      361      152       281       450      0.15       0.21      0.63      0.26       0.49     0.78
Regu. ar Condition   130         187      474      212       370       572      0.23       0.33      0.82      0.37      0.64      0.99
Bad Condition         183       271       626      279       468       712      0.32       0.47      1.09      0.49      0.81      1.24
BILLY
Good condition        106        144      472      193       339       556      0.18       0.25      0.82      0.34      0.59      0.97              1
0'
Regular Condition   138         198       548      250       421      660       0.24       0.34      0.95     0.43       0.73      1.15              1
Bad Condition        187        277       678      314       512      787       0.33       0.48      1.18     0.55       0.89      1.37
MOUNTAINOUS
Good condition        116        159      602      274       448      767       0.20       0.28      1.05     0.48       0.78      1.33
Regular Condition   144         208       666      331       528      874       0.25       0.36      1.16     0.58       0.92      1.52
Bad Condition         190       283       782      396       615      997       0.33       0.49      1.36     0.69       1.07      1.73
t'3
1/  As of January 1991; exchange rate of $COL 575 - US$1.00; Costs are economic costs.
O %Q



- 66 -                    Table 20
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Proiect
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             Z of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Loan Categorv               Dollar Eauivalent)         Financed
(i)   Civil Works:  Highways. Bridges.
River Training and Supervision       180,633,000            60Z
(ii)  Goods and Materials                   36,833,000           100% of foreign
90% of local
(iii) Consultants Services for Tecnical
Assistance and Studies                 2,360,000           100%
iv)   Training                               1,790,000           100% of foreign
65% of local
(v)   Unallocated                           44,384,000
TOTAL                              266.000.000



- 67 -                            TABLE 21
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements by Bank FY
Disbursed in                 Cumulative
Ouarter   FY                 Disbursements  %
1993
September 30, 19921/          24.2                           24.2         9.1
December 31, 1992             15.3                           39.5        14.8
March 31, 1993                16.3                           55.8        21.0
June 30, 1993                 16.3         72.2              72.2        27.1
1994
September 30, 1%s3            20.0                           92.2        34.6
December 31, 1993             23.2                          115.4        43.4
March 31, 1994                22.8                          138.2        51.9
June 30, 1994                 18.3         84.2             156.4        58.8
1995
September 30, 1994            17.5                          173.9        65.4
December 31, 1994             15.9                          189.7        71.3
March 31, 1995                15.0                          204.8        77.0
June 30. 1995                 14.2         62.6             219.0        82.3
1996
September 30, 1994            13.0                         232.0         87.2
December 31, 1995              8.2                          240.2        90.3
March 31, 1996                 6.0                          246.3        92.6
June 30, 1996                  5.2         32.4             251.5        94.5
1997
September 30, 1996             4.9                          256.3        96.4
December 31, 1996              3.9                          260.2        97.8
March 31, 1997                 3.6                          263.8        99.2
June 30, 1997                  2.2         14.5             266.0       100.0
266.0
Ass!=tions
Loan Signing Date: April, 1992
Loan Effectiveness: July, 1992
Project Completion: December 31, 1996
Loan Closing Date: June 30, 1997
L/ Including initial deposit into Special Account and 70% of retroactive financing.
Source: Mission Estimates.



- 68 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Administration
A.   Subsector Orzanization
1.   MOPT is in charge of the construction, improvement and maintenance of
the national highway network. Other major entities are also involved in the
administration of the road network, reflecting the distributic_ of
responsibilities among national, departmental and municipal levels. Twenty-
three Departments are in charge of their corresponding secondary and rural
roads through their Secretariats of Public Works (SPWs). FNCV is in charge of
specific programs for the construction, upgrading, and maintenance of rural
roads in cooperation with departmental and other authorities, through its 24
Regional Directorates. Other ministries and institutions also involved in
rural roads, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Colombia Institute for
Agrarian Reform (INCORA) and the Coffee Producers' Association (FIDECAFE),
operate in close coordination with FNCV. The lack of clear definition of
functions between them caused the long neglect of maintenance on secondary and
rural roads. One of the weakest links are the Departmental SPWs, which show
wide disparities in their organizational, financial and technical capabilities
for effectively maintaining the roads under their responsibilities. Under the
Rural Transport Sector Project (Loan 2668-CO) key information was collected
about the length, characteristics, condition and type and volume traffic on
the roads outside the nat'onal system under MOPT. Collecting and processing
of these data continued during preparation of the Second Rural Roads Sector
Project (Loan 3157-CO) and will continue during its implementation.
Furthermore, MOPT completed an inventory including physical condition of the
national departmental and rural network in July, 1990. These data will allow
to reclassify the roads and evaluate the maintenance needs of roads in
selected departments and propose a plan of action for organizing the delivery
of maintenance services, as well as appropriate funding mechanisms.
B.   M3PT's Organization
2.   As shown in Chart I, the Minister of Public Works has the responsibility
for the planning, execution and maintenance of public works through the
corresponding units within MOPT. MOPT's central administration is divided
into two main branches, the General Secretariat, which comprises mainly three
Directorates (Bidding and Contracting, Commercial and Financial and Industrial
Relations) and the Technical Secretariat, which comprises four Directorates
(Highways, Navigation and Ports, Water Supply and Sewerage, and National Real
Properties). The structural separation into two independent Secretariats
produced internal frictions and lack of coordination in the past, which were
eased through the institutional strengthening efforts carried out under the
First and Second National Highways Sector Projects (Annex 4).



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
3.   The Highways Directorate (Chart II) is in charge of MOPT's highway
programs. It comprises four subdirectorates (Projects, Supervision, Equipment
and Rate Assessment) and the 26 regional Districts which carry out road
maintenance by force account and are responsible for supervision of all
maintenance contracts. The operational efficiency of the Highway Directorate
has been strengthened substantially under the First and Second National
Highways Sector Projects and would be further upgraded under the proposed
project. However, an issue that remains unresolved is the road maintenance
structure. At present, the responsibility for road maintenance is divided
among three different organizational units: (i) the Districts, who are in
charge of road maintenance works; (ii) the Maintenance Management Unit (Grupo
de Apoyo de Mantenimiento - GAM) reporting directly to the General Director of
Highways; and (iii) the Equipment Sub-directorate (see Chart II) but with
inadequate coordination between them. Given the close linkage between
equipment availability and road maintenance capability and the need to
integrate the planning and execution functions of road maintenance, an
organizational restructuring is needed.  A new Road Maintenance Directorate
should be created and it should include the Districts, the GAM, and the
Equipment Sub-directorate to enhance maintenance planning and control, which
are objectives of the new Project.
C.   Hizhwav Construction Issues
4.   MOPT's personnel reached a peak of 3,071 employees and 12,200 workers in
1984 and was reduced to 2,639 employees (42% in the districts) and 12,563
workers (91% in the districts) by September 30, 1986. The figures in January
1990 were 4,466 employees (52.5% in the districts) and 8,101 workers (83.5% in
the districts). Of the employees, 795 are professionals (including engineers)
and 829 are technicians. Most of the professional personnel, as well as the
senior staff, are experienced and capable.
5.   Execution of civil works has shifted since the early 1970s from new
construction to rehabilitation of paved roads and paving of gravel roads.
Investments in ne-a construction changed from 85% of the total in 1973 to 22%
in 1990 and an estimated 15% in 1991 and would further decrease under the
proposed Project to about 12% in 1992-95. These civil works are executed
according to outdated design standards. This proposed project includes
technical assistance to establish and implement new design standards (Annex
7).
6.   Detailed engineering and construction supervision are usually carried
out by local consalting firms.  However, detailed engineering for
rehabilitation works has also been done by MOPT based upon road condition
inventories compiled by the Districts. The Districts assign staff engineers
to supervise contracts for desig~a, construction and supervision, under the
district engineer who has been delegated authority to sign payment
certificates on behalf of MOPT. The Sub-Directorate of Projects in Bogota
supervises technical quality of designs, and the Sub-Directorate for
Supervision controls all activities of the Districts through monthly visits by
engineers and administrators who are assigned geographical areas.



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
7.   Under previous Bank projects, quality of works has consistently been
affected by: (a) deficient quality of engineering studies; (b) bidding and
contracting procedures; (c) poor coordination between works and budget
programming; (d) inadequate performance of some contractors; and (e)
unsatisfactory supervision. These factors are analyzed in the following
paragraphs.
8.   Quality of engineering studies is very variable.  In general, the
designs carried out directly by MOPT are acceptable and homogenous. But most
of the engineering studies are carried out by consultants, supervised by
engineers from the Sub-Directorate of Projects as delegates of the Technical
Secretariat. The criteria for supervising of the works are not uniform.
Although the consultants are contracted under terms of reference updated and
improved under the 2829-CO Project, there are no guidelines about the items to
be included in the study nor their scope and content. The so-called "Final
Evaluation Report" is a confusing mixture of technical, legal and economic
recommendations. Furthermore, technical guidelines for design and
specifications for construction are outdated in some cases and are not
specific enough in others. All of these factors have negative consequences in
terms of quality and homogeneity of the engineering studies. To improve these
studies in the future, the proposed Project will finance technical assistance
to implement adequate guidelines and strengthen MOPT's capacity for
supervision of engineering studies (Annex 7).
9.   Cumbersome procurement procedures and delays in contracting, which
affected execution of works during implementation of the 2121-CO Project and
the first years of the 2829-CO Project, were substantially improved by MOPT in
the last two years by simplifying procurement procedures, streamlining legal
services and by preparing standard documents agreed with the Bank; still,
there is room for improvement. The quality of the package of bidding
documents should be improved and the time-lag between the date of the studies
and the corresponding execution of the works could be shortened. To ensure
acceptable quality of civil works, prequalification of contractors is
essential to the bidding process and should be based on criteria which can be
defined with more precision in terms of minimum working capital, volume and
scope of similar works. These and other criteria would be specified by MOPT
in a revised prequalification documents and all contractors (foreign and
local) interested in being prequalified would be evaluated on the basis of
"meet or not meet" evaluation criteria; that is, only those complying with the
minimum criteria would be prequalified. The prequalification documents will
be agreed during negotiations and put in effect as of January 1, 1992.
10. Execution of sub-projects under past loans has been affected by
irregular and often insufficient availability of counterpart funding caused
by the lack of coordination in programming the works. As a consequence, the
large number of legally valid contracts continues to be a major problem. This
problem improved substantially in the last years of the 2829-CO Project,
because funds in the budget were allocated so as to cover the full needs of
some contracts, although it implied a smaller number of contracts being



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
properly funded. Forty-four on-going contracts financed by the Loan 2829-CO
will need financing from the proposed project to be completed. The main cause
of this situation is of a legal nature. The law permits to the Government
sign a contract without specific allocation of funds, by only specifying the
financing resources and the term to complete the works. Furthermore, the law
allows the Government "unilateral modifications of the contract", which must
be accepted by the contractor, who receives an economic compensation. As a
consequence, the Government signs a large number of contracts allocating small
amounts to each one. After awarding and signing the contracts, the Government
pays the advances to the contractor. In most of the cases, the contractor
applies almost immediately for modifications based on some insufficiency in
the bidding documents (mainly in the technical area). The modifications are
frequently confirmed by the supervisor. The terms of the modifications are
agreed but, because of lack of additional funds to be allocated to the
contract, the target date for completion of the contract is delayed and some
work units are eliminated. Lack of some work units, such as drainage, will
cause further deterioration of the works to be carried out and would increase
the chances for landslides and other negative effects. When these occur, the
cost of the contract rises dramatically. This practice may politically be
attractive but it is not sound from a budgetary, economic and technical point
of view. To avoid it in the future, the proposed Project includes an agreed
Highway Investment Plan for the period 1991-95 with all the road works to be
carried out by MOPT in this period financed by IBRD, IDB and other lenders.
Close supervision will be necessary during project implementation to ensure
that appropriate funds are allocated by MOPT to each contract for the entire
period and to guarantee that all the works started will be completed on time
and at a reasonable cost.
11. Implementation of several sub-projects under the two recent highway
loans was affected by inadequate performance of some executing contractors
caused by inadequate financial capacity or equipment. These problems were
often aggravated by delays in payments of invoiced works and price
adjustments. In the two last years, MOPT took corrective measures by speeding
up payments, tying payment of price escalation to satisfactory execution of
the work program and strict application of contractual penalties for
inexcusable delays in works execution. In addition, MOPT is revising the
existing regulations of its register of civil contractors because of
inadequacies found in the evaluation of the financial capacity of contractors.
All these measures, together with the new prequalification documents, as
stated in para. 9 above, and the increase in the number of contracts awarded
by ICB procedures, will contribute to avoid selecting unqualified contractors
as happened in past loans.
12. Supervision of civil works has not been satisfactory in past projects.
It has been mainly focused on determining the monthly payments due to the
contractors and to compare these payments with those established in the
investment programs. In other words, to monitor progress on the budget.
Other aspects shown in the monthly reports by the "interventores" (consulting
supervisors) are: legal and economic aspects; measurements and cost of the
works carried out during the month; evaluation of tasks needed to actually



- 72 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
complete the contracted works; information on weather conditions during work
execution; and the monthly cosc for supervision. However, poor attention is
paid to quality control. The "Manual para Interventores" (Supervisor's
Handbook) is a guideline with little devoted to quality control. The proposed
project includes the preparation of a new supervision manual. Furthermore,
the cost of supervision under the last three highways loans has been very
high, varying from 9% to 25%, well above the average for other countries. The
main reasons for these high costs are: (i) inadequacy of engineering studies
which require additional studies by the supervision consultants; (ii) MOPT's
practice in the early 1980s to assign individual supervision contracts for
each civil works contract regardless of its size or complexity; and (iii)
delays in execution of civil works, resulting in modest amounts of works
executed each month without reduction in the input for supervision. The
policy adopted by MOPT to employ one consultant for the supervision of several
smaller civil works contracts and the measures being applied to streamline
financial administration of civil works, have reduced supervision costs,
although they continue to be high. The expected improvement on the quality of
engineering studies and contracting procedures under the proposed project,
mentioned in paras. 9 to 11 above, and the implementation of new guidelines
for supervision of works (Annex 7), will further build on the actions started
to correct the deficiencies in supervision of works.
D.   Road Maintenance
13. Until the mid-1970s, the Government gave highway maintenance lower
priority in view of the concentrated efforts to complete the national highway
network. However, faced with the deteriorating condition of the network, a
more positive attitude emerged during preparation of the Seventh Highway
Project (1471-CO). Annual maintenance expenditures increased by about 50Z in
real terms, and maintenance expenditures increased by an average of 5%
annually, in real terms, through 1983. By that year, maintenance expenditures
amounted to 30% of current and capital expenditures on highways. From 1983 to
1986, the maintenance budget remained stable in real terms. In 1987 and 1988
the maintenance budget increased substantially (see following table), but in
1989 it decreased as a consequence of the transfer of about 500 km in urban
areas to the municipalities, and decreased again in 1990 due to MOPT's budget
constraints. (However, for evaluation purposes, it should be noted that costs
for salaries and local materials did not change in local currency at the same
rate than the dollar exchange rate did). The budget for 1991 (base plus
additional) amounts to US$72.4 million, slightly below the needs estimated by
the Maintenance Management Unit (Annex 2J, but above the rate of maintenance
expenditures per km in the LAC Region (mainly because the construction of some
drainage, walls and overlays is included as periodic maintenance).



- 73 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
MOPT's Maintenance Budget
Maintenance Costs
Year                          (USS)
1986                       67,484,663
1987                       82,452,869
1988                      89,609,047
1989                       75,346,203
1990                       66,624,112
1991                       72,396,000
14.         Under the Seventh Highway Project (Ln. 1471-CO), a major effort
was made by MOPT with the assistance of consultants, to switch from an
administrative to a managerial approach in road maintenance. This effort was
continued under the First National Highways Sector Project (Ln. 2121-CO),
which financed a Pavement Management System and an Equipment Management System
in three pilot districts. The efforts were not successful; the maintenance
management system was not established and the pavement management and
equipment management systems were not extended. Nevertheless, the assistance
left handbooks and guidelines, as well as trained personnel in the systematic
collection and evaluation of information needed to upgrade the maintenance
planning and administration, and compute cost of maintenance operations.
These data have allowed to establish during the preparation of the proposed
Project a system to determine the maintenance programs for 1992-95 (Annex 2)
based on existing needs. The system will be completed and implemented under
the proposed Project (Annex 7).
15.         The Equipment Management System, started under the 2121-CO
Project, will be also completed and implemented under the proposed Project
(Annex 7). Equipment purchases financed under Loans 1471-CO and 2121-CO (for
about US$40 million) and under co-financing arrangements (for about US$60.0
million) substantially renewed 60% of the over-aged equipment fleet during the
years 1982 through 1986. Additional procurement of repair equipment and tools
(for about US$500,000) under loans 2121-CO and 2829-CO aided the equipment
rehabilitation capacity. The proposed project includes purchase of equipment
and further rehabilitation of existing equipment in function of the needs
arising from the road maintenance programs (annex 6).



COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL HIG8WAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (HOP)
Decentralized
Agencies
- National Highway Fund
- National Rural Roads Fund
National         National                        Legal       Office for       Sectoral
- National Real Properties Fund   -          Public Work.    Transportation                     Advisor      for foreign      Planning
Council          Council                                                      Offie
- National Transport Inatitute    -
Programmaing
- Colombian National               -                                                                                               and Budget
Railways (FNC)                                                                                                                    Division
-Colombian Ports                   -
Authority (COLPUERTS)                                                 Vlee
- Colombian                                                          Minister                                                       Transport
Railways Transport Coap                                                                                                           Division
(FERROVIAS)
TechnicalGener                                                               Organization
Secretariat                                                 retariat       and Systeatization
I~~                                                               ~~  Offiee  
Iighways       aigto         National Real   water Supply      Bidding and   Financial and   Industrial
Directorate    and Ports       Properties     and Sewerage      Contracts        Comsercial    Relations
| |Directorat|| Directorate                      Directorate     Directorate   Directorate
Legally established dependency relations
 -  -  -  -  Legally established coordinatlon relatione
- - - - - - -   Dependency relations not yet legally established
Source: HOPT
February 1991
r tX



HIGHWAYS DIRECTORATE
UMANTIEIANCE
O0MINISTRATIOll
!Ius-ameDISTRICS    R1AO OLICE
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1J
flAS  I'Ate b EA  A   25faq   1 .
|DIl%WI e50|DVSOI1   1jI11"||ltlSS|                                                    |$l
I  I  I  = _                              _           I           ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I tnm
-VpSf ttWl"       tl  anI1":                                                ECI10        5tTIlt5
as ,1' .", '.  ..:  * ' 
-101111111011 4. t@|



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Highwav Maintenance
Hiahwavs Network
1.    The national highway system comprises some 26,000 km of roads under the
jurisdiction of MOPT.  The system consists of: (a) primary road network of
about 11,000 km that connects the main economic centers among themselves and
with the seaports and neighboring countries; and (b) about 15,000 km of
secondary roads that link smaller towns to the primary network and roads that
provide access to other transport modes (i.e. river ports) (Table 1). The
national highway network experienced rapid development until the 1980s, in
support of a growing and diversified economy. During the 1970-1986 period,
its size increased by some 30% (mainly due to the transfer of gravel and earth
roads from the departmental to the national network), while the length of the
paved network almost doubled, reflecting the effort made by MOPT in upgrading
the network. In 1988, over 500 km of roads in urban areas of the department
capitals were transferred to the corresponding municipalities and since then
the network has scarcely grown.
2.    From the mid-1970s onward, road maintenance requirements increased
progressively, reflecting the rapid expansion of the network and the aging of
its older sections. The increasing deterioration of the road network, and
that progressive consolidation of the primary highway system, require that the
highest priority be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
facilities. This would include the continuation and extension of road safety
and training programs initiated under the First and Second Highways Sector
projects. Moreover, investments in equipment and spare parts are required for
replacement and rehabilitation of obsolete road maintenance units (Annex 6).
Proarammina and Financino
3.    The MOPT highway program for 1991-95 has been prepared to address
identified road physical requirements as well as constraints to a more
effective highway management. MOPT's highway program would amount to an
estimated US$1.6 billion (including new road maintenance equipment and
rehabilitation of the existent one) throughout the 1992-1995 period, of which
road maintenance, including routine, periodic and emergencies maintenance
would account for 18%. We consider this figure adequate.
4.    The consolidated annual investment level for rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance throughout the 1992-1995 period, would be kept at about the same
level as in the 1983-1990 period. However, an increasing share would be
allocated to periodic maintenance, reflecting the considerable effort in
rehabilitation carried out in the 1980s. Investments in paving and road
safety would continue to increase gradually to keep pace with traffic growth,
while investments in equipment will decline after 1994, because of planned



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
increases in maintenance works to be carried out by the private sector.
Expenditures in routine maintenance would increase noticeably in the two first
years of the proposed Project, to catch up with the backlog of 1989 and 1990,
and decrease moderately in the last two years of the Project, reflecting the
progressive exclusion of some activities traditionally considered as periodic
maintenance (i.e. construction of drainages, walls and overlays), which will
be included in the reconstruction or rehabilitation works for the various road
projects.
Maintenance Management
5.    Maintenance management is an area with a clear scope for improvement.
First, comprehensive maintenance planning has not been practiced so far. The
data for budget preparation have little input from the field operation units.
The budget format is very general and is not based on any measure of expected
work performance. Each year, the budget submission represents a similar or a
slightly increased amount over the previous year, but with little assessment
of what funds are really required for each maLntenance function. Second, the
release and allocation of funds continues to present a problem. The funds can
be allocated to carry out construction works and works on urban or rural roads
that do not belong to the MOPT network. The lack of the essential link
between planned work and actual funding makes fiscal management very
difficult. Third, there are delays in releasing of funds, which prevent the
districts from planning their work properly. Fourth, there is no clear
coordination between the different institutions involved in road maintenance.
In some cases there is duplication of field facilities and the specialized
labor and equipment is not efficiently used. The MOPT regional district
offices, each one staffed and possessing equipment, workshop facilities and
stocks of spare parts, operate in practically the same locations where FNCV's
regional offices are established. The departments, commissariats and
intendencies and a large number of local governments also haie field
facilities, spare parts, tools and equipment of their own. Fifth, there is no
adequate maintenance control, for lack of adequate information and monitoring
of the regional offices.
6.    Bank efforts under previous and the ongoing highway projects to improve
the efficiency of maintenance operations carried out by the districts have
been only partially successful, with low labor and equipmwnt productivity so
far preventing full achievement of agreed targets. Efforts have been made by
MOPT in the past to increa3e the perceatage or mainterance works carried out
by contract, which in 1987 was about 13% and at prasent is about 30%. Of
particular interest has been MOPT's innovative initiative to contract routine
maintenance with labor-intensive small cooperatives (micro-enterprises) of 11
to 15 workers covering about 50 km of road each. This program has been highly
successful and has demonstrated strong comparative advantage over routine
maintenanc. carried out by force account.  At present, there are 333 micro-
enterprises (covering about 18,000 km of primary roads) in operation. The
amount of contracted routine and periodic maintenance would be increased under
the proposed loan (Table 7), reaching, as an average in the 1992-95 period,



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
33.1% wLth local contractors and 15.9% with small cooperatives (micro-
enterprises).
7.    As stated in Annex 1 para. 13, and shown in the table of that Annex, the
maintenance budgets remained stable in real terms until 1987, increasing in
1988 and decreased slightly in 1989 and 1990. Furthermore, the budget
approved for 1991 is below the needs estimated by the Maintenance Management
Unit for this year. These facts confirm the need to prepare adequate
maintenance programs and budgets and to establish an appropriate control.
8.    Improving maintenance planning, budgeting, and control, requires
implementation of the maintenance and equipment management systems, which were
partly carried out with funds provided under previous Bank loans. The systems
will require updating data concerning effective work force for maintenance
activities, list of equipment and its condition, and highway inventory by
physical characteristics. The implementation of the maintenance management
system will provide the means to improve the budget process. The maintenance
work program will establish requirements for labor, equipment and materials.
Consequently, for the first time, the Maintenance Management Unit will be able
to submit a highway maintenance budget based on specific types and quantities
of work to be accomplished.
Highwavs Maintenance Proarams (1991-1995)
9.    During the preparation of this Project, the parameters, guidelines and
handbooks left by the consultants who provided technical assistance in road
maintenance, and equipment and pavement management under loans 1487-co and
2121-co, together with the data collected by MOPT on costing and accounting
during the last years, were used by MOPT to prepare a provisional system for
planning purposes. Based on this, maintenance programs for the period 1991-
1995 were prepared.
10.   The first maintenance program studied was the program for 1991, for
which 33 maintenance activities were selected (12 activities for routine
maintenance, 18 activities for periodic maintenance and 3 for emergencies).
For each activity a work measurement unit (e.g. square meter) was assigned.
The level of maintenance service to be provided was established for what was
considered a full level of maintenance service. This "full level" was defined
by a set of quantity standards (e.g. square meters of patching per year) with
a separate standard for each activity. Quantity standards were fixed in
accordance with the existing experience. once maintenance activities were
selected and the levels of maintenance were expressed in quantity standards,
annual work quantities were determined for each maintenance activity by
multiplying the quantity standard (which quantifies the level of service), by
the appropriate inventory quantity. The amounts and types of resources
required were determined by using each maintenance activity's performance
standard. (These performance standards define the activity, the daily
resource requirements, the expected daily accomplishment and the approved work
method. They will also serve to monitor the execution of the programs and to
adjust future unit costs and daily accomplishment). Annual costs for each



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
activity were determined by multiplying the resource quantities by unit costs
for labor, equipment and mater'.als as determined by the Maintenance Management
Unit (GAM). The sum of all annual activity costs is the maintenance budget.
11.   The network 1ength considered under maintenance in the 1991 program was
2C.657 km. corresponding to the length of the total highways network less
ibout 5,000 km under reconstruction or rehabilitation programs in 1991. The
maintenance work program and budget were prepared for each highway maintenance
sub-district and district. As a sum of these programs, a general program and
budget were prepared for the nations's entire highway network. The total
maintenance budget for 1991. as calculated, is US$77.7 million of which
US$41.9 million (54.0%) is for activities considered as routine maintenance,
US$30.9 million (39.7%) for activities considered as periodic maintenance, and
US$4-9 million (6.3%) for emergency works. Out of the total maintenance
program, us$38.7 million (49.8%) would be carried out by force account,
US$27.2 million (34.9%) by contract and US$11.8 million (15.2%) by micro-
enterprises (Table 2). Due to budget constraints, the final maintenance
budget for 1991 was US$72.4 million. The program for 1991 was a step forward
in improving road maintenance procedures and modifying current maintenance
practices. It set up a starting poLnt for developing the maintenance programs
for the following years, which will be included in the proposed Project, with
a commitment from the Government to allocate the funds required to carry out
these maintenance programs.
12.   The programs for 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (Tables 3-6) were prepared on
the same basis that of the 1991 program. They include routine maintenance on
roads which are now under construction and will be completed by 1991. They
are also based on the assumption that a total of about 5,000 km will be
reconstructed or rehabilitated during the project period. It was estimated
that highways under reconstruction or rehabilitation in a specific year will
not need routine nor periodic maintenance in that year, but will need routine
maintenance in the followinq year and periodic maintenance after four years
from the time of the reconstruction or rehabilitation. A second assumption
was that some activities, so far considered as periodic maintenance, such as
construction of some drainage, walls and overlays, will be progressively
included in the investment projects for road rehabilitation and
reconstruction, reducing these activities in the maintenance programs to more
appropriate levels. A third assumption was that the equipment needed will be
available by acquiring new units to replace the old ones, rehabilitating other
existing units and repairing and maintaining adequately the rest. The
equipment to be acquired and the rehabilitation needed for the existing
oquipment will cost about US$30 million. Funding for acquisition and
rehabilitation of these units is included in this Project (Annex 6).
13.   The results (in USs) of the 1992-1995 maintenance programs are shown in
tables 3, 4, 5, and 6 dLvided among routine, periodic maintenance and
emergency works (to be carried out by force account, by contract and by micro-
enterprises). Table 7 shows a summary of these results. The total amount in
the period for routine maintenance is equivalent to us$170.3 million or an
average of US$1,648 per km per year; periodic maintenance is equivalent to



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
us$95.6 million or Us$925 per km and the amount for emergency works is
equivalent tu us$20.4 million or US$198 per km. The total outlay per km is
US$2,771, which is conaidered satisfactory.
14.   The maintenance programs also define annual requirements in labor,
equipment and materials which are needed to carry them out. Based on these
data, MOPT's force account is not sufficient to carry out all the routine
maintenance, periodic mair,tenance and emergency works. Therefore, an
increasing share of road maintenance will have to be carried out by contract.
Tables 3 to 6 show the maintenance budget broken down into maintenance by
force account, maintenance by contract and maintenance by micro-enterprises.
The result is that about Us$94.7 million or 33.1% of the total maintenance
expenditures will be contracted to local contractors and about US$45.6 million
or 15.9% will be contracted to the labor-intensive small cooperatives (micro-
enterprises) with MOPT's financing. It is expected that the existing 333
micro-enterprises will cover annually over 20,000 km of primary and secondary
roads during the project period. The MOPT's equipment requirements to carry
out the maintenance programs are analyzed in Annex 6.



- 81 -
ANNEX 2
Table I
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK (1970-1986)
Year               Paved               Unpaved jj         Total    Z Paved
1970               4,821               15,094             19,915       24
1971               5,023               14,994             20,017       25
1972               5,957               14,319             20,276       29
1973               6,446               13,962             20,408       32
1974               6,856               13,987             20,843       33
1975               7,328               13,936             21,264       34
1976               7,344               14,494             21,838       34
1977               7,516               14,752             22,268       34
1978               7,737               14,815             22,552       34
1979               7,856               14,901             22,757       36
1980               8,203               14,714             22,917       36
1981               8,616               14,757             23,373       37
1982               8,946               14,874             23,820       37
1983               9,168               15,304             24,472       37
1984               9,448               15,802             25,250       37
1985               9,599               15,983             25,582       37
1986               9,617               16,316             25,933       37
1987               9,964               15,987             25,951       38
1988               9,673               15,745             25,418       38
1989               9,655               15,790             25,445       38
1990              10,093               15,564             25,657       39
1991              10,093               15,564             25,657       39
1/ Includes departamental roads incorporated each year into the National
Network.



-82 _
Tabile 2
coLaaIA
ANNU H   AL       AII N TENANCZ    P OoC *It  19O I
nAt?14TANE COST IN 056
......................_..........._,_..__.................................................. .................................................................................. ..........................__. _.
DhtT                                                                  TOTAL            V0RCC         LUCE           ntCRO-
CODE  nAIRTEW1Ce ACTIIT'LTS             COST    DSST         quANrTt   EqUPHm     T  MATERALS   LUOl          COST       2      ACCO2T  CONTRACTORS ENTERPRISE
_,............__._...... _......................_............................._..............
COYTNE NAfl4TD4jCE
...................
a2e   T6P7AL PATCHING                     6,000   53           32,107          235         102         107       444      0.6        314                       120
237   PATCHIG (PAvED)                    23,000   HS          115,016        1.397       $.277      1.037      7,761    10.0       2,561        4,424         776
2eo   MC. 6NAPINC                            13   M:    200,064,675          5.093                    899      3,994      7.7      3,994
285   VATCHNG (NOR-PAVED)                 3,690   KS          324.316        1.297         773        690      2.760      3.6      2,346                      414
310   SHOULDER X     lPAIR                   23   K2       12,993,186          359                    369        749      1.0        210                      539
423   DI1CHES KAhL CLEANtIN                  60  ItL       24.165.052           67                  3.273      3.341      4.3        601                    2.740
434   HAnmOLE CLEANING                      313  ItL        2,146.,66           31                  1.S27      1.559      2.0         47          265       1.247
497   DRAINAGE CLtR                       3,233   ML          236,296           66                  2.76       2.631      3.7                     436       2.395
636   CLCRUING AND LEmELLING             37,270                36.009          131                  3,134      3,263      4.2                     261       3,003
663    .0AD SIGtN CLENING                   353                49.093            1            1        38          40     0.1           2           2          36
666   6412E1  CLEANING                      260               107,807           20            1        103        125     0.2         15        7,031         116
731   MATERLAL TRANSN .                     113   3.rK   49.247.936         :1.057                            13.0!7    18.6       6,006
,..................................................................................................................................................
SUBTOTAL                                                   21.776       6.154    13,964    41.946    34.2    16.106          12.459       11.362
2                                                   31.9       14.7        33.4                           43.2        29.7        27.1
................................ ............. , . __._......... . ........ . ..,..._ .  __ ..... . ................
PERLIODIC 14A116EDACE
.................... ................ 
226   RECRAVELLGN                         4.130   KS          225,063        1.173         747        213      2.133      2.7      1.429          704
241   PfIZKNG                               ao0   12        1.624,070          133         319         64        767      1.0        460          307
244   ASPHALT COlCEm                     24,613   n3          146,536        1.496       6.485        333      6.314    10.7       2,411       3,903
Z43   IN SITE Ht4X.                      17.980    43          64,016          610       1,837        186      2,633      3.4      1,336        1.114
251   SURIACE TEATmEBt                      935   K2          434.300          262         431        243        936      1.2        403          534
260   SEALING                               213   K2        2.164.610          249         704        I3O      1,082      1.4        790          292
275   PAVDNT REPLAZNT                    2.630   M5        1,325.979        6,269       2,220        740      9.249    11.9       7,677        1,372
422   DITCHES CONSTS.                    31.00   H0              8,474          31         453         137       621      0.6                     621
446   DRAIN  )O1S5Tt.                    10*,441   K            16,706          32         261         1         450      0.6                     *30
459   CONCETE WALL CONST.                29,725   n5             8,020          44         357         148       549      0.7                     549
473   GASTONWALL COWST.                  11,490   MS            10,274          16        2I0          123       390      0.3                     390
487   CULVLXT CONSM.                     74,475   DL            4,047           33         479         161       693      0.9                     695
315   BRCDgE MANTD CZE                   30,415   IIL              929           3          72         32         106     0.1                     108
620   SLOPE 7IIPOvEOMT                    1,630   K2
637  ?PA. MARC                          327  000   D             1,271          38         66           36       938      1.2        716          239
669   StCN RXPLAC3ST                     31.320                 14.869          75         923         75      1.073      1.4        390          376         107
673   SICN POST LZPIACDIT                 7.060                 9,694           23          67         32         161     0.2         39          loo          23
662   UA.RRIERS AND DNEUSIVE WALL    31.263   EL                9,792           26         635          42       706      0.9        254          432
..................... . .. .    . ...... .... ........................... __ ... .... _._ . .... ..... .. .._._ ............... __.__......_ .....___..... _.__
STUTOTAL                                                   10.557      17,371      2,917    30.864      59.6    16,309       14,406          130
2                                                           34.2       36.3         9.3                           32.9       46.7             0.4
INEGENCIES
...........
346   lIVER tCD CLENING                     613  'S           497.260          678                     36        934      1.2        934
380   8W. 60s0DCt tHSP.               2.000,000   ML               262          32       1.235         32      1,300      1.7      1.300
6215   ETST  SLIDE RflOVAL                  610   13        1.623.690        1,699                    736      2,655      3.4      2,002          262         262
...................................................... ............................................................................................._ .     ........  
SOATOTAL                                                    2.809       1,21         644      4.989      9.3      4.236         262          262
2                                                            57.3      25.3        17.3                          36.6          3.8            3.6
........................... .............................................._. _._..   _...............................
AND tOTOM                                                  32.142      24,760    17,723    77.680        100    38,651       27,147       11,600
2                                                              45      31.9        22.9                           49.9       34.9            13.2
.. . ... .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. ..... . .. . .. . .. ... .   . .. ..... ... ... ... .... ... ... . .. .... .. . .. ... . .. . .



83 -
ANNEX 2
COLOMIA
ANNUAL  MAINTENANCE PROGRAM  1992
MAZTUANO  COST IN u05
UNIT                                                                TOTAL            PORCE        LARGE       MICRO-
CODE   MAINTENANCE ACTVITlES           COST    UNIT         QUANTITY   EQUIPMENT  MATERIALS   LABOR        COST       S     ACCOM?  CONTrACTORS  D        R1SE
.._.______..__._._________.___..__...________................_...._..._._....._._....__._.______.___..._..__.____________.__.__.._._..___.__._________
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
___________________
229    TDPORAL PATCHING                  6,000   MK            32.300         237         103       107       447      0.6        326                       121
237    PATCHING (PAVED)                 29.280    MS          115.575       1.404      5.303      1.092     7.799    10.2       2.574       4.4* 5          780
290    NEC. SKAPING                         13    K2    218,120.000        3,355                    990     6.535      8.5      6.535
285    PATCHING (NON-PAVED)              3.690    M3         325,160        1.300        774        691     2.765      3.6      2.350                       415
390    SHOULDER REPAIR                      25    M2      13,03J.700          360                   390       751      1.0        210                       541
425    DITCHES MANUAL CLEING                60    ML      24,240,400           67                 3.285     3.352      4.4        603                    2,748
434    MANHOLE CLEANING                    315    ML       2.153.380           31                 1.532     1,563      2.0         47         266         1,251
497    DRAINACE CLEANI                   5,235    KL         237,030           86                 2,774     2.860      3.7                    456        2,402
636    CLEARING AND LEVELLING           37,270    H           36.128          131                 3,144     3.275      4.3                    262        3.013
66S    ROAD SIGN CLE4NINC                  355    U.           49,246           1           1        38        40      0.1          2           2            36
686    BARRIER CLEANING                    260    KL         208,535           20           1       104       125      0.2         15       7.573           110
731    MATERIAL TRANSPORT.                 115  MS-lM    32,916,950       14,024                           14.024    18.3      6.451
.______............................................................._.______........___...................................................___________________________
SUBTOTAL                                                 23,216       6.182    14.137    43.536    36.9    19,113        13.006        11,417
2                                                   33.3        14.2      32.1                          43.9        29.9          26.2
PERIODIC MAINTEACE
___I........____......
229    RECBAVELL7NG                      4,150    M3         123,473         660         420        120     1,200      1.6        604        396
241    PRIMING                             20S    K2         6563535           61        279         45       405      0.5        243         162
244    ASPHLT CONCRmE                   24,6t15    M          68.700         70r       3.040        156     3,697     5.1      1,130       2.767
245    IN SITE MI.                      17,930    K3          52,880         504       1.534        153     2.191      2.9      1.271        920
251    SURFACE TMErf                       935    K2         726.423         438         720        407     1.565      2.0       673         892
260    SEALING                             215    KI       2.195,200         250         707        131     1.086      1.4       794         294
275    PAVMEN  tEPLACEBENT               2,630    M3       1,639.000       6,755       2,384        795     9.934    12.9      8.245       1,689
422    DITCTES CONSTR.                  31,800     S           6.500         31         455        137       623      0.6                   623
448    DRAIN CONSTR.                    10,445    Ms           18.766          32        262        158       452      0.6                   452
459    CONCRETE WALL. CONSTI..          29,725    M3           11,993         63         312        213       787      1.0                    787
475    GABION WALL CONSTR.              16,490    K3          20,610           31        501        251       783      1.0                    783
487    CULVERT CONSTR.                  74,475    SL           4.060          35         481        181       697      0.9                   697
315    BRIDGE MAINTENNCE                50,613    3L            9,320          32        726        32S     1.003      1.4                 1,083
620    SLOPE IDPROVDEENT                 1,630    ml          68.680           29        174         87       290      0.4                   290
657    PAV. MAIING                     327,000    EM            1.277          38        685         38       962      1.3        722        241
669    SIGN REPLACCDE                   31320                 14,915          75        926         75     1.077      1.4       592         377           108
673    SIGN POST REPLICEM                7,060                  9,925          23         87         52       161      0.2         39         100           22
682    UBRRERS AND DUENSIVE WALL    31,263    BL               9.625           26        637         42       708      0.9        255         453
...............................................................................
SOBTOTAL                                                  9,806      14.730     3,366    27,903    36.3    14.768        13.006           130
1                                                          $5.2        52.8       12.1                         32.9        46.6           0.5
___.____,__.__.__._____......................................................................___________.______________................................................................................____.___ .......... ___
SERGENCIES
546    RIVER 8ED CLEZANI                   815    MS         623,515        1,101                    70     1,171      1.5     1.171
580    STEEL BRIDGE INSP.            2,000.000   ML               335          39      1.467         39    ISU        2.0     1,54U
625    EARTH SLIDE RB6OVAL                 610    MS       1,831.400        1.905                   669     2.57S      3.6     2,008         283           263
_________.________.______._._._________________................................................................................................................................................ _.___ ....._____...... _.... 
SUBTOTAL                                                  3.045       1.467        776     5,290     6.9      *.723         253           283
1                                                          57.6        27.7       14.7                         89.3         5.4           5.4
GRAND TOTAL                                              36,067      22.379    18,261    76.729       100    36,604      26,295        11,830
S                                                          47.0        29.2       23.8     100.0               50.3        34.3          35.4
..................................................................................................,.................................................



- 84 -
ARM 2
Table 4
COLaIA
ANNUAL   MAIHTZVANCs   POGRIAM   1s93
MAZUTWACE COST IN1 US$
UNIT                                                             TOTAL             010t?      EUAO       MICR.
CODE    ANrTENC  ACTIVITIES           COST   UWIT         QUASITT    tQU7NS  NATMALS   LAIO            COST      s      ACCOUNT  CONTRACTOU  UTUEPISI
..... .......... ............................  .............................................................................................................v*ew - 
IOUTINE MAIHNTVWIC
...................
229    TEMPORAL PATCHING                *,000    Mi         32.200         236        102       107       445     0.6        325                      120
257    PATCHING (PAVED)                29.200    Mi        115.000       1.397      5,277     1,096     7.760    10.5      2,531      4.425           776
290   NEC. SHAPING                         13   92    21.100,000        5.342                   941     6,543     4.9      6.543
245    PATCHING (MN0-PAVED)             3,490    93        100,000       1.199        714       634     2.552     3.5      2.164                      S33
3580    SHOULDER IREPAI                   25   la2     13072,240         362                   592       753      1.0       211                      342
425    DITCESS MANUAL CLEUNING             so    ML     24.313,300          67                3.293     3,362     4.6        605                    2.757
434    aNAOLE CLEAING                     315   ML       2,160.000          S1                1.337     1.568     2.1         47        267         1.254
497    DAIGE CLEANING                   5,235    ML        200.000          72                2.341     2.413     3.3                   386         2.027
636    CLEAIM  AND LEVELLING           37,270               36.000         124                2.96S     3.092     4.2                   247         2,U$5
65    SOAD SIGN CL INDO                   335               49,390           1          1        35        40     0.1          2          2            36
686     iRIfl CLANING                     260              209,160          20          1       104        125    0.2         I5                      110
731    MATERIAL TRANSPORT.                115s   3-K   30.830,000      13.477                          13,477    19.3     6.199       7.277
........... ....................................................... ..........w ......................................................................
SUBTOTAL                                               22.348      6.095    13,447    42.129    37.3    14.676       12,602       10.430
S                                                 33.5       14.3      32.0      100.0              44.3       29.9          23.9
PERIODIC NAINTVEAOCE
228    REGRAVELLISG                     4,150    KS        320.000        631         402       11S     1.148     1.6        769        379
241    PRIMING                            205   92         820.000          77        267        43       387     0.5       232         155
244    ASPHALT CONCRETE               24,615    93          68.000        694       3,009       154     3.857     5.2      1.119      2,739
243    in SITE MI.                     17,980    M3         30.000        477       1,450       145     2.072     2.8    1.202          470
251    SURFACE T6EAThDT                   935    K2        500,000        301         496       290     1.077     1.5       463         814
260    SEALING                            213    M2      2.200,000        231         709       131     1,090     1.3       796         294
275    PAVEMENT REPLACENT               2,630   a3       1.575,000      6.491       2,291       764     9,U56    15.0     7,923       1.623
422    DITCHES CONStR.                31.600    93           8,300         SO         444       134       4o0     0.8                   608
448    DRAIN CONSTS.                   10.445    93         1,6.00         32         262       158       453     0.6                   435
459    CONCRETE VALL CONSTR.          29,723    H3          11,S20         63         513       213       789     1.1                   789
473     aSION WALL CONSTR.             16,490   Vs          20.650         31         502       151       785     1.1                   785
487    CULVERT CoNsm.                  74,475    a.          3600          31         426       161       418     0.8                   6I$
313   BRIDE MANTNANCE                 50,415    EL           9,330         33         726       323     1.084     1.5                 1,084
620    SLOPE IMPROVzmT                  1.830   M2          68,880         29         174        87       290     0.0                   290
657    PAV. MARKING                  317.000    a            1.200         34         $32        56       904     1.2       678         226
669    SIGN IEPLACElET                 31,320               14,000          71        869        71     1.011     1.4       556         354           101
673    SIGN POST L'PAUCflt              7,060                9,950         23          $7        52       162     0.1        39         100           23
682    BARRIERS AND DEFENSIVE WALL    31.265    EL           9,000         26         584        39       648     0.9       233         41S
SUBTOTAL                                               9,327      14,043     3.159    26.529    35.7    14,010      12,396           124
s                                                        39.3       49.9       11.5                        52.        46.7           0.3
.. . . . . ......... .. .........  .   ...............    .   .....  .   .....................  .   .......................  .   ....................................................................................................................
...........
546    RIVER RED CLEIOG                   813     3        625,550      1,104                    70     1.175     1.6      1.173
580    r1.L BRIDGE DSP.            2.000,000    ML             250         32       1,226        32     1,291     1.8     1,291
425    241H SLIED  ovAL                  S10    W3       1,863,000      1,910                   671     2,581     3.5    2.015          284          28
SUOTAL                                                  3.046      1,226        773     5,047     4.9     4,479        284           28
t                                                        40.4       24.3       13.3     100.0              88.7        3.6           3.6
...................... ................................@  ., ................................ .......................... . ......e~ssw* - @= -------@**
GRJAD TOTAL                                            34.921     21.364    17.419    75,705    99.9    37,163      23,292        11,258
s                                                        47.4       29.0       23.6     100.0              50.4       34.3          13.3
................................... ................................... ................. .................. ................. .................



- 85 -
AunU a
Table 5
COLUIA
ANNUAL  MAINTENANCE PROGRAM  1994
NAINTANC? COST D I SN
...... .......______.....______._________________........................................................................__._.__.___.,_............................ ........ . .......... . ..
UNIT                                                                TOTAL            fo100        LAME       MIcRO.
CODt  MAINTEANCE ACTIITIES             COST    UNIT          QUANTITY    Q0ID1     KAT3IALS   LAB01         COST      2     ACCONT  CONTRACTORS    TESE
......... ............_________._____.____._.________....... ..................................................................... ................__.___._____................ ..... ______........._ .__.___._......._.____
ZOUTNtlS I6AINTZN*NCR
____....____,._.....
219    TPORAL PATClRlN                   6,000    KS           32.295        237         103        107        447     0.6        326                      1:1
2)7    PATCUNG (PAIVD)                  29,260   It           113.345       1.401      5.293      1.090      7. 764    11.1     2,568      4.436           778
2a0    MIC. SWING                            13    K2    219.055,200       3.576                    964      64.62     9.4      6,5js
265    PATOCIEN  (NON-PVID)              3.690    N)          300,900      1.203         716        440      2,559     3.7      2.17S                     S34
Ja0    SNOULDE  REPAI1                      25    H2      13.111.493         3I3                    393        736     1.1        212                      S4
425    DITCHZS MANUL  CLEANING              60    HZ      24.366.340          67                 31305      3,372      4.0        607                    2.761
434    HANLE CLEANING                      315    1L       2.166.480          31                  1.541      1.572     2.3         47        267         1.236
497    DAINSACE CLANING                  5.235    ML         200,600          73                  2.346     2.421      3.5                   367         2.033
636    CLEARXNG AND LEVELLING           37.270                 16.106         124                 2.977     5.101      4.4                   246         2.653
665    ROAD SIGN CLEANI                    355                 49.535           1           1        36         40     0.1          2          2            36
686    SAtUEL CLEANING                     260               209,725          20            1       104        125     0.2         15                      111
731     4TERIAL TRANSPORT.                 115   KS-K    11,000.000       11.516                            13.516    19.4     6,2:S       7.299
............. ..................._______................... ____.......... ____________......................................._.__._._................. __................ ____._.................... ____________........... .
SUBTOTAL                                                 22.614       6,114    13,527    42.255    60.0    16.733        12,639        10.66)
2                                                   53.5        14.5      32.0                          44.3        29.9         25.6
PEIIODIC NAINTEIWCE
228    RECRVELLING                       4,150    KS          91.200         480         305         87       $72      1.2       364         268
241    PUKING                              205    K2         623,200          39         203         32       294      0.4        177        116
244    ASPALT CONCRETE                  24.615    KS          31.60         526       2,267        117     2,932      4.2       630       2.081
243    IN SITE HIS.                     17,980    KS          38.000         362       1.102        110     1,574      2.3       913         661
251    SUFAC? TREATHENT                    935    N2         400.000         241         396        224       661      1.2       371         490
260    SEALING                             215    M2       1,672.000         191         338         99       626      1.2       605         223
275    PAVEMENT REPLAIEBS                2.630    KS       1,579.723       6,511       2,298        766     9,575    13.7      7.947       1,626
422    DITCIUS CONST.                   311.00    H)           6,310          23         336        102       463      0.7                   463
446    DRAIN CONSSS.                    IC044U    KS           14,400         24         201        121       346      0.3                   346
459    CONCETE WALL CONSTR.             29,725    KS            6.710         46         390        162       S98      0.9                   396
47S   GASioN WALL CONSTR.               16.490    KS           15.690         24         362        191       397      0.9                   597
487    CULVERT CONSTI.                  74.475    EL           2.730          23         323        122       468      0.7                   468
1ts    SRIDGZ  AINTEUANCE               50,415    EL            7.090         25         S52        247       624      1.2                   624
620    SLOP? lHgPVDlT                    1.830    H2          52.350          21         132         66       220                            220
657    PAV. hARKING                    327.000    Z               910         27         631         27       665      1.0       514         171
669    SIGN RLACEWT                     31.320                10.640          34         660         54       766      1.1       422         269            77
673    SIGN POST S?PLC3T                 7,060                 7?ISO          17          66         39        122     0.2        30          76            16
682    8URSIS AND DEMSIVE  ALL    31.265   KL                   6.840         20         44          30       494      0.7       177         317
_______.____........................... ... _._.__...... _______.....................___.__............._ .  ____________........................... ......................... __ ...  . __
SUSTOTAL                                                  6.677      11.246      2.596    22.521    32.1    12.590        9.638            63
S                                                          36.5        49.9       11.3                         52.9        43.7           0.4
VIERGENCIES
346    RIVER RED CLEANING                  61      KS3       627.255       1.107                     71     1.176      1.7     1,176
360    STUL BRIDGE INSP.             2.000,000   1M               280         32       1,226         32     1.290      1.S     1.2J1
625   tEATN SLIDE RDOVAL                   610    Ks        1,64,00        !.965                    673     2.589      3.7     2.019        2I3            2$5
__                                   _            _            ___ _                                      __ .. .......................... . . . ...................................   . ............................_
SUSTOTAL                                                  3.05        1.226        776  S,0)7         7.2     44M          2i3            285
2                                                          60.4        24.2       15.3                         $6.7         3.6           5.6
.......... .................... . .... . ..................................... . .......... . ., .__._
GRAND TOTAL                                              34.346      18.SU      16.S99    69,633    99.1    33,511       22,762        11,261
S                                                          49.2        26.6       24.2      100.0              $1.9        32.6          16.1
.............................  .  ...........  .  .   .   .   .  ..............................................................................................  . .



-86 -
*NMu 2
Table 6
COLQOIA
ANNA L  M A I NTZN A NC Z P RO0R A M  19953
NAESTDM1CZ COST to a59
UNIT                                                                   TOTAL            FORCE        UARGE        001Gb-
CODE   MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES            COST    UNIT          QtWlTIT     EQUI1'WN  KATERIALS   1.430          COST       2     ACCOUNT  CONTRACiTOS  729T13R15
RLOUTINE M4&INTE2WCR
229    TDMOIOAL PATCIINO                   6,000    143          32,590  .       237         103        107        4,47     0.7        327                        120
257    PAT'CNIU  (PAVED)                  29.280    M.3         115.690        1,405      5.308       1.093      7.906    11.8       2.576       4,450            780
280     mcC. SWAING                           13   142    210.712,360         5.595                     987      6.562    10.0       6.582                          0
265    PATCHING (NON-PATRO)                3.690    143         301,600       1,206          719        642      2.567      3.9      2.181                        386
580    S90ULDEP  REPAIR                       23    K42      13.150.830          364                    394        758      1.1        212                        546
425    DITGI01  MNUM"  CLEANING               60    ML.    24.459.500             68                  3,31'      3.362      5.1        609                      2.773
434    KANRLE CLZANING                       315    ML.       2,172,980           32                  1.346      1.578      2.4         47         268          1,263
497    DRAINAGE CLEANING                   5.235    ML.         201,200           73                  2.353      2,428      5.7                    388;        2.040
636    CLEARING AND LEVE.LI.NG            37,270                 36,215          124                  2.988      3.110      4.7                    249          2,861
663    ROAD SIGN CLEARING                    335                 49,680            1           1         38         40      0.1          2           2             36
686     AIrRIR CLEANING                      260                210,410           20           1        10k.       126      0.2         15s1
731    KATERIAL TRANSPORT.                   11    145-R    51.155,000       13,537                             13.557    20.5       6.136       7.321
SUBTOTAL                                                    22,662       6,132    13,567    42.381    64.2    18,787          12,678         10,916
1                                                     53.0        14.5       32.0       100.0               44.5        30.9           25.0
PERIODIC HAINTRANCE
228    BZGRAVELI.ING                      4.150    143          63,640          136         214         61        611      0.9        409         201
241    P81141KG                              205    142         436.240           411        142         23        206      0.3        124          82
244    ASUTRL  CONCRETE                   24.615    143          36,180         369'       1,601         82      2.052      3.1        595       1,437
245    tN SITE MIR.                       17,980    Ks3          26.600         234          772         77      1.102      1.7        639         463
251    SURACE TREATMEN                       955    142         260,000          1609        276        157        603      0.9        2.59        344
260    SEALING                               215    ml2       1.170,000          133         377         70        580      0.9        423         157
275    PAVD0lT REI.ACbDlT                  2,650    KS5       1,584,460       6,330       2,305         766      9,603    14.5       7,971       1,633
422    DITCNIS CONMTS                     31.600    143           4.420           16         236         71        324      0.5                    324
448    DRAIN CONSTR.                      10.445    143          10,060           17         141         85        243      0.4                    243
459    CONCRET  wALL CoNsTR.             -29,723    143           6.125           34         27I        115        420      0.6                    420
475    GAStoN WALL CommT.                 16,490    143          10,960           17         267        134        417      0.6                    417
487    CULVERT CONMT.                     74,475    IL            1,910           16         226        85         326      0.3                    328
515    BRIDM  PIAINrERA1CE                50,415   WH.            4,960           17         186        173        576      0.9                    576
620    SLOPE IHPRGVDMT                     1,830    142          36,645           is          93         46        135      0.2                    155
657    PAV. MARRIG                       327,000    ml              615           19         440         19        479      0.7        359         120
669    SIGN REI'LACEONl                   31,520    D.            7.450           38         462         38        558      0.8        296         188            52
873    SIGN POST REPLAEaOT                 7.060    C.            5.290           12          46         28         86      0.1         21          53             14
682    BARPRIERS AND DEPENSIVE WALL    31.265    EL               4,790           14         511         21        345      0.5        124         221
SUBRTOTAL                                                    8,047       6.570      2,051    18,668    28.1    11.220          7,562             66
1                                                             45.0        45.9       11.0      100.0                60.1        39.5            0.4
I411LENCIES
546    RIEBE   .ENG                          815    143         629.135        1,111                     71      1.182      1.8      1,182
580    STEEL BRIDGE INSP.             2.000,000    ML               280           32       1.226         32      1.290      3.0      1,290
625    EATH SLIDE REMOVAL                    610    143       1,847.000       1,921                     675      2,596      3.9     2.024          286           286
ROBTOtAL                                                     3,064       1,226        778      5.068      7.7      4,496         286            268
I                                                             60.5        24.2       15.4      100.0                88.7         5.6            5.6
GRAM9  TOTAL                                                33.703      15,928    16.398      66.117   100.0    34,503        20,546         11,268
2                                                             51.0        24,1       24.8                           32.2        10,8           17.0



- 87 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1992-1995
Summary Costs (US$1000)
COST
YEAR   ROUTINE      2   PERIODIC         2    EMERGENCY        2      TOTAL   km/yr
1992    43,536     56.72    27,903      36.42     5,290       6.92   76,729      3.0
1993    42,129     57.2Z    26,529      36.02     5,047       6.82   73,705      2.9
1994    42,255     60.52    22,521      32.22     5,057       7.22   69,833      2.7
1995    42,381     64.1Z    18,668      28.22     5,068       7.7Z   66,117      2.5
TOTAL   170,301     59.52    95,621      33.42    20,462       7.12  286,384      2.8
FORCE              LARGE                MICRO
YEAR   ACCOUNT     2    CONTRACTORS       2 ENTERPRISES    2          TOTAL
1992    38,604     50.3Z    26,295      34.32    11,830      15.42   76,729
1993    37,165     50.42    25,282      34.32    11,258      15.3Z   73,705
1994    35,810     51.3Z    22,762      32.62    11,261      16.12   69,833
1995    34,503     52.22    20,346      30.8Z    11,268      17.0Z   66,117
TOTAL   146,082     51.02    94,685      33.12    45,617      15.92   86,384



- 88 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
Colombia
Third National Road Sector Proiect
River Navigation
A.   The River System
1.   Colombia has four river systems, the Magdalena, the Atrato, the Orinoco
and Amazonas, with a total of approximately 6,175 km of navigable waterway1'
and moving a total of approximately 2.7 million tons of cargo in 1989, plus
cattle and passengers. The Orinoco and Amazonas are of local importance,
representing together about 2Z of the national total, while the Atrato carries
a substantial volume of bananas (about 675 thousand tons in 1989) for
relatively short distances from the plantations to the port of Turbo for
loading to ocean-going ships.
2.   The most important river system for cargo movement is the Magdalena,
with 998 km of navigable waterway, and which in 1989 moved approximately 1.9
million tons of cargo (hydrocarbons 1.3 million tons, coal 0.3 million tons
and other cargo about 0.3 million tons) equivalent to about 1.1 billion ton-
km. River traffic on the Magdalena since 1971 is shown in Table 1. The
annual total over the period has remained remarkably steady; the decline in
general cargo in the 1960's, following the construction of the Atlantic
Railway in 1963, was compensated by the hydrocarbon led boom in the 1970's.
In its turn, the stagnation of the hydrocarbon traffic in the 1980's has been
compensated by the growth of coal movements. General cargo movements have
declined steadily over the period and now include relatively modest quantities
of cement (from Nare), fertilizers (from Barranquilla) and agricultural
products (from those communities in the lower Magdaleua where road
communications are non-existant). In part, the reasons for the stagnation of
the hydrocarbon traffic and the decline in general cargo are to be found in
the problem of the unreliability of river navigation; the project aims to
address the question of the present unreliability of river navigation.
Traffic prospects for the 1990's are positive for the bulk traffics,
especially petroleum products from Barrancabermeja and coal in the lower
reaches. Minor bulks, including fertilizers, cement and scrap may increase,
if reliability can be improved; other (general cargo) traffics will at best
maintain their present levels.
3.   River improvements between Barrancabermeja and La Gloria will benefit
mostly the movements ef petroleum products by ECOPETROL from Barrancabermeja
to the Caribbean ports and the long distance movements of fertilizers and
cement between Barranquilla and Puerto Berrio/Dorada. Improvements in the
Canal del Dique will benefit mostly the ECOPETROL traffic and coal traffic
from La Loma/Jagua to Cartagena.
1/   The figure refers to the length of waterway classified as "mayor
permanente" by the Directorate of River Transport and Ports (DGNP). The total
length of navigable waterway, including tributaries and sections subject to
seasonal closures is estimated to be 18,144 km.



- 89 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
B.   Directorate of River Transport and Ports (DGNP)
(a) Organization
4.   Responsibilty for the maintenance of the river transport infrastructure
and for the regulation of river transport is held by the Directorate of River
Transport and Ports (DGNP), within the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT). The Directorate is organized in three Divisions: Hydraulic Works,
which is numerically by far the largest, includes the sections responsible for
the dredgers and for river maintenance, and undertakes all the civil works of
the Directorate. Next in size is the Division of River Transport, which is
responsible for the regulation of the four river systems that make up the
Directorate. Third is the Technical Division, which is responsible for
studies, the hydraulic laboratory, for programming and control and for the
supervision of works. The overall organization of the Directorate is shown in
chart 1. The work of the hydraulic laboratory is performed by consulting
engineers under contract to the Directorate.
5.   In all, the Directorate employs about 655 personnel; of this total 186
are classified as staff and 469 as permanent workers. Those responsible for
the administration, operation and maintenance of the dredgers make up about
68% of all personnel and the Intendencias another 20%. Less than 10% of all
personnel are located in Bogota. The geographical distribution of the
Directorate is shown in Table 2.
6.   The turnover of staff at all levels is low so that, especially for
supervisory and management staff, there is likely to be a need for retraining
and the updating of skills. Such training is included under the proposed
project. Given the low availability of the dredgers, on account of
maintenance and supply problems, there is a significant degree of overmanning
in the Dredging Section.
(b)   Expenditure and Budget
7.   Budgeted expenditure for the Directorate for 1991 amounts to a total of
COL$ 8,499 million (US$ 13.5 million). This is, in real terms, in line with
average expenditure over the past four years (Table 3). The expenditure is
expected to finance: administrative costs (about 30%); studies, including the
two laboratories and the survey vessel (about 15%); the direct operating costs
of the dredgers and other equipment (about 20%); eleven contracts for the
protection of the river banks (about 30%, of which the largest single item
refers to the Canal del Dique) and minor works in approximately eight river
ports (about 15%). In the absence of more detailed figures, the allocation



- 90 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
between the different headings shows no obvious distortions, though the
proportion for administrative costs appears high and the proportion for the
direct operating costs of the dredgers and other equipment is low, reflecting
their low availability.
8.   The proposed investment program for 1992-1995 is also shown in Table 3
and, without the Bank project, assumes a stable pattern of expenditure in real
terms.  The Directorate's expenditure is financed mainly from the Fondo Vial
(98%) and the remainder from Central Government.
(c)  DescriDtion of Proposed Investment
9.   The purpose of the proposed investment is to improve river transport in
the following ways:
a)   extending the period of navigability from Barrancabermeja to the
Atlantic coast from the present average of 9 months, to year-round
availability;
b)   improve the installations at the river port of Barrancabermeja, in
order to achieve more efficient cargo handling and to increase
capacity.
c)   extend the length of the working day for the convoys, by means of
the provision of improved river signalling.
10. Towards the achievement of the first objective, the extension of the
period of navigability, two works are envisaged; the partial training of the
river in the stretch between Barrancabermeja (km 631 from the sea) and La
Gloria (km 435) and a program of deferred maintenance dredging in the Canal
del Dique, which provides access from the river at Calamar (km 91)!' to the
bay and port of Cartagena (see map). A successful project will thus permit
year-round navigation between Barrancabermeja, where the ECOPETROL refinery is
situated, and the two outlets to the sea, at Barranquilla and at Cartagena.
Improvements to the river port of Barrancabermeja are essentially for dry
cargo, of which the port handled approximately 125 thousand ton in 1989 (about
35Z of the 1982 tonnage), and are intended to increase the speed of cargo
handling, thereby reducing the time needed to handle the traffic, reducing
congestion and increasing capacity. These cargoes have their origin or
destination in the sea ports of Cartagena and Barranquilla, where reasonably
adequate installation already exist. The aids to navigation consist
principally of reflecting buoys and markers. The total cost of the four
components is estimated to be US$ 26.6 million, made up as follows (Table 4):
2/   Distances are measured from the mouth of the river at Barranquilla; the
Canal del Dique has a total length of 114 km from the bay of Cartagena to
Calamar, where it joins the river.



- 91 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
a)   river training and deepening:  Barrancabermeja-la Gloria, US$ 17.6
million
b)   dredging:  Canal del Dique, US$ 3.5 million
c)   improvements to river port: US$ 5.0 million
d)   aids to navigation : US$ 0.5 million
11. The content of each of the four components is described briefly below:
a)   River Training and Deei)eninm:  Barrancabermela - La Gloria
The River Magdalena is confined to a relatively wide valley by the
mountains on either side.  However, within the valley, movements of
the navigable channel occur with some frequency, on account of the
complex system of secondary channels. The purpose of this
component is, by a combination of channel deepening and the closing
of the secondary channels, to stabilize the main channel. In some
sections two main channels will be maintained. The deepening will
be achieved by dredging and the closing of the secondary channels
by the use of semipermeable barriers constructed of steel, aided by
the deposition of dredged material. The effect of the work will be
seen in the periods of low water, since in times of high water
there are no problems of navigation;
b)   Deferred Dredging of the Canal del Digue
Following Dutch studies in the 1960's and an IDB funded project in
the period 1979-83, three sediment traps have been established in
the Canal del Dique, with the aim to catch bottom-moving sediment,
thus maintaining the depth of the Canal. The project consists of
the cleaning of these traps, some dredging in the Canal between the
traps in order to restore the bottom profile and minor works to
stabilize the banks of the Canal. The two mouths of the Canal,
into the Bay of Cartagena and into the Bay of Barbacoas, will also
be dredged. The program is essentially one of deferred maintenance
dredging and in this case, as in the previous component, the
definition of satisfactory arrangements to ensure adequate
maintenance dredging after completion of the project will be a
condition of disbursement of the component;
c)   River Port Improvement
Intermodal links for the middle-Magdalena are provided by Capulco
(river and rail) and Barrancabermeja (river and road). The
installations at Capulco are in reasonably good condition,
requiring only minor repairs and, once some administrative details
related to the transfer of this port from the FNC (railway) to the
MOPT are resolved, it is planned to seek a concessionneire for the
port, who would take over both its operation and ma-intenance. The
port of Barrancabermeja is totally inadequate for present demand,



- 92 -
Annex 3
page 5 of 7
on account of its constrained location, between the installations
of ECOPETROL and the city. In addition, the construction of the
new highway (Troncal del Magdalena) will improve access to
Barrancamerja and may be expected further to increase demand there.
For this port, a two staged improvement is planned. First, the
capacity of the existing installations will be maximized, by
removing an unwanted warehouse and by increasing and paving the
storage yard; then to provide additional capacity, comprising
approximately 240m of quay with storage areas and accesses, at )ne
of two nearby locations currently being analysed. This will permit
improved cargo handling at the existing installation, with
additional capacity at an efficient new installation.
d) Aids to Navigation
There are at present few aids to navigation for the river, partly
on account of budgetry constraints, partly because of technical
difficulties in mapping the channel i' face of the relatively
frequent and rapid changes that it suffers. Conse'-uently there is
a high degree of reliance on the experience and knowledge of the
river captains, who nevertheless are obliged to reduce their speed
to a mintnum during periods of low water. One effect of the
planned works will be to stabilize the channel which, coupled with
the adoption of modern hydrographic equipment, will make the
installation of rixed navigation aids more feasible. This will
permit a longcr working day for the convoys, with a higher average
speed at time of low water. Fixed aids, consising primarily of
reflecting markers and some floating buoys, are envisaged.
D.   River Maintenance and Dredzers
12.   Constant river maintenance is necessary if navigation is to be reliable.
In the River Magdalena/Catal del Dique system, maintenance may be classified
into one of three categories, as either;
(a)   routine and predictable;
(b)   routine and predictable  within limits, or
(c)   emergency or unpredictable.
13.    The first category, of routine and predictable maintenance, is to be
found chiefly in the cleaning of the sediment traps in the Canal del Dique, to
catch the sediment before it settles in the channel, thus impeding navigation.
The second category, of the less predictable but still routine maintenance
dredging, is for the river itself and the river training component of the
project is designed in part to reduce this unpredictability by stabilizing the
navigation channel. The third category, emergency work, refers to the sudden
and unpredictable shoaling that arises from time to time. This is always a
possibility in a river that retains most of its natural characteristics and
some reserve of dredging capacity has to be maintained for this eventuality.



- 93 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
14.   River maintenance has been inadequate in recent years and this, coupled
with a period of less than average rainfall, has led to serious problems of
navigation. The maintenance probiem arises from an insufficiency of dredging
capacity in the country for this type of work (which, by reason of its
fragmented nature is not likely to attract international interest). The MOPT
has traditionally done the work using its own equipment and, on account of
this policy, the development of a private sector capability has been
discouraged. The Directorate owns what is, on paper, a substantial fleet of 9
dredgers. However, the most recent of these was purchased in 1976, another
was purchased in 1965 and the rest prior to 1960 (Table 5). Thus on account
of their age and associated maintenance and spare parts problems, the
availability of t'^e dredgers is poor. Their performance is further affected
by deficiencies in the supply of dredging pipe and by the inherent
difficulties in maximizing hours of work in the context of a state-owned
dredging fleet.
15.   Some initial steps have been taken to supplement the fleet by the
coatracting of private dredgers, of which a limited number now exists, and
also under -onsideration is the possTlhility of chartering out the
Directorate"s dredgers on "dry-boat" terms, i.e. without crew, for specific
works, though their condition may hinder implementation of this policy.
Another possibility, at least for the medium term, is to irclude an option of
maintenance dredging for a period of say 5 years in the contracts for the
works in the river and in the Canal del Dique that are to be financed under
the project.
16.   Approval, by the Bank, of the contracts for the project components
related to dredging in the river and in the Canal del Dique will depend on
prior agreement with the MOPT of the arrangements for the essential
maintenance dredging that is invol ed. This will require the careful
definition and evaluation of the options open for the achievement of the
estimated dredging need3', involving an analysis of both technical and
institutional/laboral aspects. Provision has be - made in the project for the
cost of a study to examine these issues and to recommend the best solution.
The terms of reference are attached as .....
E.   Tariffs
17.   River users pay a charge to the MOPT for use of the river and, when use
is made of a public port, for use of the port and hire of equipment (if
applicable). In addition, river transport loading or discharging in the ports
3I    Made up of routine maintenance of a largely predictable nature plus the
emergency work arising from unexpected changes in river conditions.



- 94 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
of Cartagena and Barranquilla is liable for a charge by COLPUERTOS. The two
tariffs have not been updated since 1988 and 1984 respectively and the
incidence of the charges is very low.!'  In 1990 the MOPT received a total of
COL$ 41.3 million (US$ 0.1 million) from river transport through the tariff
(Table 6). In principle, the tariff should cover at least the cost of the
maintenance of the river channel and the operating cost of any equipment,
including provision for depreciation.  For the project, the MOPT will prepare
by June 30, 1992, an adequate tariff structure in line with these objectives,
and will implement the new tariff by the end of 1992.
F.   Training ComRonent and Studies
18.   Two items are envisaged under this heading:
a)    the development and implementation of a program for the training
of DNP staff in all aspects of the administration of navigable
river systems. It is suggested that this program be developed in
cooperation with the US Corps of Engineers station at Viksburg,
though taking into consideration the need for a suitably
commercial approach to cost recovery and tariff aspects. An
outline of the proposed training program is given in Annex 8;
b)    a study of the options open to the MOPT for the successful
accomplishment of the necessary river maintenance, in light of
expected demand for predictable and for emergency work. This will
involve in particular the definition and evaluation of the
alternatives for the dredgers and associated equipment of
contracting, leasing or direct operation.
A/    The charge for use of the river is between Col$0.02 and Col$0.04 per
ton-kn, depending on the nature of the cargo, whilst the hire of equipment
(cranes or forklift trucks) costs between Col$ 1000 and Col$ 2500 per hour,
depending on the capacity of the equipment.



- 95 -
Annex 3
Table 1
Historical Traffic Movements on the River Ma dalena *
(In Thousand Tons)
YEAR               1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  197)
Hydrocarbons       1654  1943  2260  1880  2232  2469  2526  1675  1535  1251
Coal
Other cargo         736   663   614   520   638   411   418   604   656   535
TOTAL              2390  2606  2874  2400  2870  2880  2944  2279  2191  1786
YEAR               1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Hydrocarbons       1486  1489  1560  1474  1352  1208  1349  1305  1393  1320
Coal                         1      1    71   143   166   160   160   270   350
Other cargo         509   420   477   397   481   458   396   356   297   262
TOTAL              1995  1910  2038  1942  1976  1832  1905  1821  1960  1932
Source: DGNP
* With some exceptions, river traffic is recorded twice, first on leaving
port then on entering the port of destination. In the above table, the
greater of the two figures, on an annual total basis, has been taken on the
assumption that the difference arises from some weakness in data capture.
Source: MOPT.



- 96 -
Table 2
Location of Personnel: Staff and Permanent Workers
Bogota  Barranquilla  Pto Lopez  Pto Asis  Quibdo   total
(Magdalena)!' (Orinoco) (Amazonas) (Atrato)
Management                    43       -                                          43
Division of Hydraulic
Works         loll    457                                         467
Divisicn of River
Transport       4         -              -          -         -      4
Technical Division           8          -              -         -          -     8
Intendencias:
Magdalena                     -        75              _    -               -    75
Orinoco                      -          -             17         -          -    17
Amazonas                     -          -              -        23          -    23
Atrato                       -          -              -         -         18    18
65        532            17        23         18   655
Source: Derived from DGNP figures.
1/ Dredger personnel allocated to Barranquilla; location at any time will
depend on location of equipment.
2/ Allocation between Bogota and Barranquilla is approximate.



- 97 -
Annex 3
Table 3
Rilecto:att of REver Transgort & PoIt*
Exi,endituree 1987-1991
(in $COL million)
19871'     1988       1989        1990      1991
a)   Inveltm2nt                               2,823     4.021      4.031        7.905  80369
- Division of Hydraulic Works           1,103      1,050      1,050       2,3051' 2,349
- Equipment                                179       210        250        520       530
- Intendencias                            238        315        315        630       865
- ,,y6raulic works                        859      1,560      1,530       2,370   2,440
- River Ports                             200        411        411       1,110      $80
- Studies                                 244        475        475        970    1,305
b)   Central Administration
66        81         64       116        130
TOTAL                                         2,889     4,102      4,095        8,021   8,499
Provosed InvestMent Budgst for 1992-19952'
(Col$ million)
1992         1993         1994         1995
Division of Hydraulic Works          4,033         5,195        6,630       8,134
Equipment                              566           731          933       1,144
Intendencias                         1,515         1,928        2,460       3,0L8
Hydraulic works                      2,740         3,460        4,416       5,419
River Ports                          1,760         2,282        2,711       3,327
Studies                              1,351         1,934        2,666       3,273
TOTAL                               11,965        15,530       19,816      24,315
Source: NOPT and mission estimates.
1/ Actual expenditure for 1987, other years are budgeted expenditures.
2 Following internal reorgmnization, allocation to individual chapters may
not be fully comparLble with previous year.
SI Excludes cost of Central Administration and proposed Project Expanditures.



- 98 -
Annex 3
Table 4
Directorate of River Transport & Ports
;  o;tmated-Project Costs *
(USS million)
River      River       Aide to
i         LOCATION                      Dredging    Training      Ports     Navigation  Total
Barrancabermaja
-La Gloria                       9.50        8.10                               17.60
Canal del Dique                  3.25        0.25                                3.50
Capulco/Barrancabormeja                                   5.00        0.50       5.50
TOTAL                           12.75        8.35        5.00         0.50      26.60
Nydraulic Works Program (excludin acu4pment)
(US$ million)
1992        1993        1994       TOTAL
Dredging                         6.375       6.375                   12.75
River Training                   4.175       4.175                    8.35
River Ports                      1.00        4.00                     5.00
Navigation Aids                                           0.50
11.550      14.550       0.50       26.60
* Excludes studies end training.
Source: DGNP



Directorat of 6t". Traew,ot "A Fort$
Chsrart.i,tte.s of Dmrd,lta rFiet r
auflumc            iws                 AmK D                                  lIotU    UItI)TU 1P D.    CAPACITY        II Ci?    MtA"   117 cr    SoT             VISCUA           93K31               TM  or
(n)       (31)      IN)      (NilE)      (El          n)    Cos MN       fin l2       Pin LI)           ISTiAm  LU)        cant.
DCW.IM-4..001    1. ASA0          P. S1C0AV         qun3o                    41.5     0   10.75     2.0   100    110                1.20   e              S30            It-              80               1.95n
0n.4       t       . WiLlI         LtCOt            P. UILU  tun.)           60.96        13.41     2.26      400       163         1.13      l2          I0c            24.            S."11               1.931
11C.5t".0P01      IL. 060rA       KCS5 ICn          UDXt I&IUA               22.00         6.00     2.00      200        60         1.20       6          300            3U-               "S              3.965
0014              6. su1m         DOCUV0IIM    3hJAA01 JA                   33.27        12.00     2.00      200                    .0                   Soo0           36               60 1S9 I."
W.it".2.014                        _M tfMFu    UhjsUUtA                      22.00         8.00     z.00      200        s0         1.20       a          60             Set _            600               3.931
D0=41F1.3-100     C. Dlqu         95061             u3ABQ0tUA                33.00        10.25     2.30      400        69         1.20      12          700           430 -           3.600               1.31
Dll91C ..003    a. WiUt                              r     e031  F*S*CAULL0S  24.00       9.00     2.30      300        64         1.20      12          7eo           450 _           15300              ..937
Vt0-1.0i3-M40S   C08A39           1JE               ARAUrA                   24.00         9.00     2.30      200        64         1.20      12          700           430 _           1*9                12937
001.31Z           t. CES1I        DUICOI            IlMCl CAN)               26.00         5.50     3.90      200        70         1.10      12          100           430 n           1 .ne              1.91
.                                                                       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~
6' 1o
)J  All dredges are stationary cutter, section type.                                                                                                                                                 a x
3
2/ Diameter in incbes or capacity in M per hour.
Source: DrNP



- 100 -
Annex 3
Table 6
Directorate of River Transport and Ports
Receipts from charges to Users-1990
($COL 1,000)
Port              Use of Berth!'      Use of River  Storage   TOTAL
Barrancabermeja              145.0          29,890.5        420.0    30,455.5
El Banco                                     4,761.0                  4,761.0
Cartagena                                    3,305.2                  3,305.2
Barranquilla                  15.8             880.9                    896.8
Magangue                      72.3              706.3                    778.6
Pto. Berrio                   5.0              297.4         62.0       364.0
GamarraP1                    52.0               166.1                   218.1
Cancasia                                        194.7                    194.7
Pto. Salgar                   15.3                3.6       324.9       343.8
TOTAL                       305.4           40,205.7        806.9    41,318.0
1/ Includes hire of equipment when applicable.
2/ Capulco revenue goes to FNC. Source: DGNP.



Annex 3
- 101 -
Chart 1
Directorate of River Transport and Ports
Organization of the Directorate
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
TECENICAL SECRETARIAT
DIRECTORATE OF RIVER TRANSPORT ANID PORTS
ASSISTANT
DIVISIONS: RIVER TRANSPORT         EYDRAULIC WORKS        TECHNICAL
SECTIONS: Norm. sa      Intendentes             Programing Studies Supervision
Classification
Inspectors
r                          I
Dredgers Maintenance Administration
CoordLnation of Dredgers
*ource: MOPT



- 102 -                ANEX 4
Page 1 of 7
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Bank Assistance to the Hiahway Subsector
A.    Highway Proiects
(i)   Completed Proiects
1.    From the early 1950s to the mid-1970s, the Bank Group contributed to the
development of the highway subsector through six loans and one credit, which
assisted in the expansion of the primary network and in the introduction of
modern engineering and construction techniques. The first generation of
highway projects (Loan 43-CC,- is$16.5 million, 1951; Loan 84-:o, us$14.35
million, 1953: Loan 144-Co, US$16.5 million, 1956; Loan 295-co, us$19.5
million, and Credit 05-Co us$19.5 million, 1961; Loan 550-Co, us$17.2 million,
1968; and Loan 680-CO, us$32.0 million, 1970) eventually resulted in the
construction or upgrading of 4,500 km of trunk roads, which constitute the
backbone of Colombia's two south-north corridors to the Atlantic ports, their
interconnections and their link to the main Pacific port. The two last loans
also financed construction of one major bridge each. A major technical
assistance component financed under Loans 295-co and 550-Co, assisted in the
reorganization of MOPT and of the districts, adding transportation functions
and strengthening road administration.
2.    Progress of all of these projects was slow because of: (a) inadequate
designs; (b) awarding of contracts to inexperienced and financially weak local
firms (affecting mostly the two last projects); (c) scarcity of counterpart
funds; and (d) poor supervision and contract management. The resulting cost
overruns of up to 70% brought about reduction of the original projects scope
with unfinished parts of preceding loans being completed under subsequent
loans. Almost all loans required extensions of up to three years of their
closing dates to permit full disbursement of the loan proceeds.
3.    Although these six loans contributed fundamentallSy to the development of
Colombia's trunk system and to the emergence of road transport as the main
means of communication, the original objectives were only partially achieved
and the ultimate objective of the paving program to improve communications
between the Atlantic ports and the major commercial and industrial centers of
the country was not fully met. Nevertheless, the roads and bridges built with
Bank assistance are benefiting the Colombian economy by reducing vehicle
operating costs on important trade routes and, with a few exception, are
yielding high economic returns. The completion report of the Sixth Highway
Project (Loan 680-CO) recommended that: (a) MOPT's competence and capacity be
assessed more realistically; (b) engineering works be completed prior to loan
negotiations; and (c) the extreme importance of road maintenance be
recognized.
4.    The Seventh Highway Project (Loan 1471-Co, US$90 million, 1977) shifted
the Bank's involvement in the highway subsector to road rehabilitation and
maintenance and related institutional development, comprising: (a)
rehabilitation of about 978 km of paved trunk roads; (b) preparation and



- 103 -                 ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
implementation of a vehicle weight program; (c) a highway maintenance program
(1978-1982) focused on the ienewal and better management of MOPT's equipment
fleet and on the introduction of upgraded planning and management methods and
procedures for maintenance activities; and (d) updating of the national
transport plan and preparation of an inventory of local road materials.
5.    Project start-up was delayed for two years because of the changes in
administration (August 1978) and subsequent inquiries into MOPT's practices,
which paralyzed most procurement actions until February 1979. The new
administration had difficulties in reorganizing MOPT and restarting the
project. Fey consultants, in particular for maintenance planning and
equipment management, became involved only in early 1980. Some of the civil
works contracted during the first two years encountered administrative and
financial problems and failed; new contracts had to be negotiated or tendered.
It was not until the end of 1979 that project execution really got under way
with the full support of MOPT; however, implementation suffered new delays and
cost increases because of a combination of: (a) increases in quantities due to
the nature of the works and the additional deterioration between the time when
engineering was completed back in 1974 and the time of construction; and (b)
inflation, which was higher than anticipated over a longer period than
estimated. In October 1983, MOPT and the Sank agreed on a reduction of the
original scope of road rehabilitation from 974 km to 777 km, which were
completed by the end of 1985. The remaining 197 km of roads that were
initiated under the Seventh Highway Project were completed under the First
Highway Sector Project (Loan 2121-Co).
6.    The technical assistance for highway maintenance by consultants
INGEROUTE (France), was completed in 1982 and initiated and developed
implementation of systems for: (a) pavement MLnagement; (b) equipment and
spare parts management; and (c) training. After the departure of the
consultants, implementation of these initiatives slowed down, but received
some impetus under the Government that took over in August 1986. Maintenance,
road marking and laboratory equipment for a total of US$24.0 million was
procured under the project. In addition, MOPT procured maintenance equipment
for about US$60 million with bilateral credits under a program set up under
the equipment management system. Expenditures for road maintenance increased
in real terms by about 50% in 1979 and 5% annually until 1983. The commitment
to keep maintenance labor and administration expenditures below a 50%
threshold of total maintenance expenditures was complied with, if amortization
of maintenance equipment is included in the calculation.
7.    Local consultants (TECNOCONSULTA LTDA.) completed a study in 1982 on the
economic, technical, financial and legal aspects of vehicle weight control and
presented their recommendations on the number, type and location of vehicle
weight control units, which were approved by the Bank. MOPT's cumbersome
budgeting and procurement procedures delayed procurement of weighing equipment
and tendering failed two times, in 1984 and 1985. Weighing equipment could
not be procured before the loan's closing date, December 31, 1985, and an
amount of US$2,173,923.00 in uncommitted funds was canceled. (Five portable
scales were procured subsequently under Loan 2121-co. and five stationary
weighing stations under Loan 2829-CO).
8.    The National Transport Plan was finalized and discussed with the Bank by
mid-1980 and led to the preparation of the First Highways Sector Project (Loan



- 104 -                ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
2121-co). Three contracts for the study and inventory of locally available
road materials were awarded in 1981 and 1982 to three local firms and were
completed in 1984. (This study was updated under the on-going Second Highway
Sector Project, Loan 2829-CO).  Although some of the project's objectives were
not fully achieved, the Seventh Highway Project contributed fundamentally to
the updating and strengthening of MOPT's administr&tive procedures and to the
improvemert of Colombia's primary road network, thus benefiting the economy by
substantial savings in transportation costs.
9.    The First Highway Sector project (Loan 2121-co), Us$152.3 million 1982)
aimed at financing MOPT's 1982-1986 Highway Program, including road
rehabilitation (3,700 km); paving (2,800 km); resealing (2,500 km); and new
construction (500 km).   It also aimed at improving subsector management
efficiency and strengthening MOPT's, highway planning and implementation
capability. Key measures included: (a) development of pluriannual highway
programs; (b) systematic use of economic appraisal me;nodologies in support of
program preparation; (c) introduction of a comprehensive road safety program;
(d) improvement of MOPT's management data system and computerization of
technical and financial records; (e) increasing periodic maintenance by
contract and rationalization of the force account organization; (f)
reclassification of the network and development of departmental highway plans;
and (g) improving of vehicle-axle-load control. Moreover, sector studies were
to be carried out under the project covering the National Transport Plan, road
user charges and truck regulation and services.
10.   The civil works program was to be financed jointly by MOPT's own funds,
by the First Highways Sector Project and by two IDB loans. However, financing
under the sector project was to be applied to the execution of specific
projects to be selected by stringent economic criteria. By the time of
negotiations, about 1,400 km of rehabilitation works and 700 km of paving
works had been preselected and evaluated, engineering was well advanced, 655
km of rehabilitation works had already been awarded and 148 km of paving works
were to be awarded. Fast startup of project implementation was expected.
However, the change in Government that took place one month before the date of
effectiveness of the Loan (9/6/82) delayed startup of project execution by
more than a year, and contracting of the awarded works was delayed until after
publication of a new national procurement law (Decree 222) in February 1983,
which introduced additional complications into the tendering and contracting
procedures. Several successful bidders refused to sign their contracts, which
brought about extended negotiations to award to the next lowest bidders.
Additional difficulties appeared when MOPT started to use the new bidding
procedures, which were not in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. This
problem further slowed down contracting of civil works and goods procurement,
and finally led to the cancellation of US$2.7 million of the amount of the
loan on May 3, 1984. The difficulties on the procurement issue were finally
solved in June 1984 and full project implementatinn got under way. In October
1983, the Bank had agreed to transfer from Loan lf71'-CO the completion of
execution of 197 km of road rehabilitation. An agreement on the opening of a
special account was signed on May 21, 1984. Nevertheless, execution of civil
works suffered new delays because of: (a) delays in contracting; (b) lack of
counterpart funding; (c) poor performance by contractors; and (d) weak
supervision. Following a general agreement with the Government, the Bank,
under the Special Action Program, increased disbursements for civil works from
50% to 65% from January 1, 1985 until June 30, 1986. An extension of the loan



- 105 -                ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
closing date from December 31, 1986 to December 31, 1987 wao agreed on May 26,
1985 and, finally, on June 19, 1986, the Bank agreed to extend 65% financing
of a few subprojects to December 31, 1986 and to apply 65% financing to the
execution of emergency civil works (Nevado del Ruiz) until their conclusion.
11.   Under the prcject MOPT: (a, carried out and partially implemented
several studies on policies in the transport sector and on upgrading road
specifications and technologies; (b) procured a mainframe computer and
initiated implementation of a computerized information system; (c) carried out
partially a program of institutional reform and training; (d) carried out
partially a road rehabilitation and paving program and a road safety program;
and (e) implemented a cost-effective program for contracting routine road
maintenance. Overall, however, the project wae not fully successful in
meeting its objectives: (a) MOPT's 1982-1986 five-year program exparienced a
14% reduction in real terms, affecting mainly such project-related components
as training (-63%), paving (-55%), road safety (-41%) and maintenance (-20%);
(b) MOPT failed to achieve m.,ny of its institutional strengthening objectives,
including: (i) efficient budget planning and administration; (ii)  effective
maintenance administration; (iii) adequate vehicle weight control; and (iv)
upgrading training programs; and (c) the project had no effect on
strengthening the construction industry.
12.   Full implementation of the project was hampered by: (a) lack of
sustained commitment of the government to the objectives of the project; (b)
frequent changes in high- and mid-level staff assignment; (c) defective
engineering and inadequate cost estimates; (d) cumbersome bidding and
contracting procedures; (e) lack of consistency between budgetary and civil
works execution programming, resulting in a chronic shortage of funds to
finance the civil works program, extreme delays in processing of payments, and
substantial ixtensions of the original schedule for execution of civil works;
(f) weak pe:;formance of most contractors and extremely costly and ineffective
supervision by consultants; (g) MOPT's failure to implement maintenance and
equipment management systems introdu-ed by consultants under Loan 1471-co, to
establish adequate maintenance information and cost-accounting systems and to
strengthen maintenance planning, execution and monitoring.
(ii)  Oncoina Proiect (Loan 2829-co)
13.   The Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2829-co, US$180.3 million, 1987)
consists of an investment component and a policy reform and institutional
development action plan. The investment component finances a time-slice of
MOPT's 1987-1993 highway program and the loan disburses against selected
expenditures, including: (a) civil works for rehabilitation of paved and
gravel roads; (b) supervision of the corresponding road rehabilitation and
paving works; (c) road safety; (d) equipment for road maintenance and spare
parts; (e) training program; and (f) technical assistance. The Action Plan
was designed to strengthen MOPT's highway management capabilities, adjust
sector policies and improve the transport coordination process through the
implementation of programming and monitoring systems for the different
subsector agencies.
14.   The loan finances contracts which were ittarted either with funding from
the previous loan (Loan 2121-co), or wLth MOPT's own funding. The main reason
for this financing is that, for years, MOPT has held a large portfolio of



- 106 -                ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
legally valid contracts without sufficient resources to sustain their adequate
implementation. This has resulted in slow progress and high costs. In
addition, deficient engineering resulted in continuous modifications during
construction adding to the delays and cost overruns. Inadequate selection of
contractors added to this problem. Problems in execution are analyzed for the
sub-projects financed by Loan 2829-Co, contract by contract, in Annex 5. On
July 15, 1988, an amendment to the Loan Agreement increased the Bank loan's
share in financing the costs of civil works and their supervision, in order to
complete the contracts in a reasonable period. At the same time, MOPT
confirmad that it would not start new civil works, except for emergencies and
maintenance, and updated the work program. However, the extremely long
process to include the additional loan funds in the 1988 budget precluded
achieving the physical objectives for 1988. MOPT updated the work program
once again in late April 1989, taking into account the time required to secure
the budget revisions and the authorization from the Ministry of Finance to
spend funds. This work program 4ncl,ded 160 contracts. As of that date only
7.4% of the loan disbursements had been processed by the Bank and up to 14%
were awaiting Bank processing.
15.   Project implementation has substantially improved in the last year,
especially for the civil works component. The main reasons for this
improvement have been adequate allocation of funds in the budget and better
management of the budget process. Disbursements as of December 31, 1989 were
US$81.0 million compared to US$13.4 million as of end-1988, and length of
finished roads was 1971 km (326 km in end-1988). However, the number of
legally valid contracts remained very high (228, of which 68 were finished by
the end of 1990). This large number of contracts could not be appropriately
funded and slowed progress on all works.
16.   Project progress continued in 1990; as of the end of 1990 only US$37.3
million remained undisbursed (20.7% of the Loan), well ahead of the schedule
given in the SAR (34% of the Loan). The Loan is now exp--ted to be totally
disbursed by Dec-imber 31, 1991, one year ahead of the cl.  ng date eptablished
in the Loan Agreement.
17.   Although almost all civil works and the corresponding supervision are
already contracted, it will not be possible to finance ongoing works through
completion with this loan. About us$140 million will be needed to complete
ongoing civil works.
18.   Disbursements In the training component and scholarships have started
very slowly but picked up in the last year. The Bank agreed with MOPT to
allocate funds from the Loan to the following: (i) implementing maintenance
planning and control as well as new technical guidelines for road design and
construction; (ii) training for equipment operators to improve the present
quality of equipment operation and maintenance; and (iii) a program of seminar
and courses. Of the technical assistance component, at present only the
Institutional Management Study has been awarded. Proposals submitted by
consultants to prepare a National Transport Plan and to review the impact of
truck manufacturing policies were declared void by MOPT for legal reasons.
The Master Plan Study is now being retendered but the trucking study will not
be carried out because it became unnecessary given the study carried out by
the Ministry of Economic Development and the recent liberalization of imports
of vehicles.



- 107 -                 ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
B.    Rural Roads Projects
19.   The Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-Co, US$33.0 million, 1981) aimed at
strengthening the planning and managerial capability of the National Rural
Roads Fund (FNCV) and to develop this organization Into an efficient planning
and funding agency for rural roads programs carried out by its departmental
branches. The project assisted FNCV in carrying out its 1981-1984 investment
plan and maintenance plan, and provided technical assistance to upgrade the
management of the institution.
20.   After an initial delay of several months, execution of the project
became satisfactory. A substantial decrease of the estimated road
construction and rehabilitation cost allowed an increase of about 500 km of
the length of roads financed under the project. However, successive
extensions of the closing date were required from June 30, 1984 to December
31, 1986. Civil works execution and procurement of maintenance equipment were
completed in 1985. Road maintenance was not totally performed in compliance
with agreed targets. All technical assistance services were completed and
'ontributed to FNCV's institutional strengthening.
21.   The Rural Transport Project (Loan 2668-co, Us$62.0 million, 1986) was
prepared based on the results achieved under the Rural Roads Project and
supports FNCV's 1986-1992 Investment and Maintenance Program. It finances a
slice of this program and aims at: (a) supporting the Government's effort in
agricultural development; (b) improving efficiency and reducing cost of rural
transport; (c) upgrading FNCV's institutional performance; and (d) developing,
on a pilot basis, small scale water transportation in a coastal area. This
project is giving particular attention to the execution of adequate rural
roads maintenance programs. Execution of this project started in the third
quarter of 1986. The closing date is December 31, 1992.
22.   Progress of the road construction, rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance are ahead of expectations. Funds appropriated by the Government
for these purposes have permitted to speed up the tendering, contracting and
execution. Consulting services for technical asuistance are practically
completed. Implementation of the maintenance management system is going on
and contributing to stepped-up management performance. If the level of
budgetary support continues to be satisfactory next year, the loan will be
fully disbursed in 1991, one year ahead of the closing date.
23.   The Second Rural Roads Sector Project (Loan 3157-co, US$55.0 million,
1990) is based on FNCV's 1990-1993 Investment and Maintenance Program. The
project embodies the experience gained in preparing and implementing the
program for the 1986-1989 period, and, because it is based on annually
reviewed physical targets, expenditures and financing levels (chosen in
accordance with agreed methods and criteria), provides the flexibility to
adapt to changing developmental priorities, especially now that coordination
with local governments is mandated under the new decentralization scheme. The
main project components are: (a) maintenance, including resurfacing works on
4,400 km of roads; (b) improvement civil works along 1,500 km of existing
dry-weather roads, including completion of bridges and drainage structures;
(c) construction of 900 km of rural roads; (d) studies including the review of
road funding strategies and engineering designs, and supervision of civil



- 108 -                 ANNEX 4
page 7 of 7
works; and (e) training, technical assistance and other services. The project
was approved by the Board on January 16, 1990 and declared effective on June
6. 1990. The closing date is December 31, 1995.
24.   Execution of the project started soon after declaration of loan
effectiveneas and some civil works and the corresponding supervision have been
contracted and initiated. Procurement of goods is progressing satisfactorily.
The implementation of.the maintenance management system, successfully
initiated under the Loan 2668-Co, is being extended country-wide with the
assistance of consultants financed by the new project. Project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily.



- 109 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Draft Contract between the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(National Road Fund) the and Fiscal Policy Council:
Monitoring of the Performance of the National Road Fund
Preamble
1.        The Fiscal Policy council, Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT), Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, and the National Planning
Department (DNP) are interested in improving the administration of the
National Highway Fund (FVN) in order to achieve the goals of MOPT's Road Plan
for the ADertura (DNP-UNINF-DITRANS-MOPT-2552 dated March 21, 1991) and the
program for restructuring of MOPT.
2.        Negotiations are currently in progress with the World Bank to
obtain financing for the country's Third National Roads Sector Project.
Finalization of such negotiations is contingent upon introduction of efficient
mechanisms for monitoring the administration of the National Highway Fund and
its execution of investment projects.
Parties to the Contract
3.        Juan Felipe Gaviria Gutierrez, Minister of Public Works and
Transport, legal representative of the National Highway Fund; Rudolf Hommes,
Minister of Finance and Public Credit; and Armando Montenegro, Director,
National Planning Department.
General Oblective
4.        To improve the programming and execution of projects implemented by
the National Highway Fund, improve road maintenance practices and introduce
necessary institutional improvements to upgrade quality of project management
and transport policy setting.
S2ecific Goals
5.   (a)  To set the level of commitments of the National Road Fund in line
with its financial resources;
(b) To rationalize administrative procedures and reduce costs;
(c) To improve investment programming and monitoring; and
(d) To enable efficient execution of the Third National Roads Sector
Project financed by the IBRD.



- 110 -
ANENE 5_
Page 2 of 3
Undertakings
6.        The National Road Fund undertakes to:
(a) Limit contractual commitments for civil works so that the ratio of
total revenues of FVN in each year divided by total outstanding
contracts will be at least equal to the following;
1992      252
1993      302
1994      402
1995      502
(b) execute the 1992-95 investment program (desegregated by project),
as per attachment 2.
(c) Execute the 1992-95 road maintenance plan (desegregated by region),
as per attachment 3.
(d) Carry out the institutional improvement program as per attachment
4.
(e) Prepare each year an updated program specifying quarterly targets
for implementation of investment projects, road maintenance and
studies.
(f) Execute at least 80% of the quarterly plan for each investment
project, road maintenance plan by region and sector studies.
(g) Take, before December 31, 1992, all necessary actions to complete a
reform of the Statutory Law of FVN which will include
reorganization of the maintenance functions of MOPT and the
incorporation of the Project Executing Unit and the Environmental
Unit into its organization structure.
7.        The Fiscal Policy Council undertakes to:
(a) Ensure that approval of the budget requests within its jurisdiction
is consistent with National Highway Fund financial programming.
(b) Approve the PAC (Plan annual de Caia) required for the National
Road Fund.
(c) Contract consultants to monitor this contract. The selected firm
will prepare the progress reports in line with the guidelines in
attachment 1.
(d) Evaluate, in conjunction with the National Road Fund, and based on
the consultants' reports, the progress in execution of the Third
National Roads Sector Project and recommend the necessary
corrective measures.



- 111 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
8.        The National Planning Departments commits itself to communicate to
CONFIS its opinion on MOPT's funding requests within 10 working days.
9.        The Ministry of Finance, through its General Directorate of Budget,
commits itself to:
(i)       have the Directorate General of the Budget respond within
10 working days to budget requests referred to it by
MOPT; and
(ii)      agree with MOPT on the proposals for amendments to the
regulations issued pursuant to Law 38 of 1989, within
three months of the signing of this document.
Follow-up and Loan Monitoring
10.       The Fiscal Policy Council, in cciajunction with MOPT and the
National Planning Department, shall utilize the auditors' reports as the basis
for evaluating overall administration of the loan in relation to physical and
financial goals and shall recommend actions to be taken iu cases of poor
performance.
11.       Projects on which at least 80% of programmed activities have not
been carried out shall be studied with a view to specific actions, as allowed
by the statute on contracting. Projects whose costs exceed the estimated
costs by over 20% will also be reviewed to find out the reason for such
increase.  In both cases, CONFIS will recommend the actions to be taker. to
remedy the situation.
Duration
12.       This contract shall take effect on the date of its signing and
publication in the Diario Oficial and will have a duration through the end of
1995. Annually, through agreement by all parties to this contract, and with
the participation of the World Bank, the targets established in this document
could be modified in light of existing circumstances and new quarterly targets
agreed upon.
Submission of Reports
13.       The reports will be submitted no later than 30 days after the
quarter in question.
Distribution of Reports
14.       Progress reports shall be forwarded by MOPT's Planing Office to the
Secretariat of the Fiscal Policy Council, with copies to the National Planning
Department, the World Bank Resident Representative in Colombia and the World
Bank headquarters.



- 112 -                       ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
CONTENT OF REPORTS
PART I (aaareaate data}
1.    Contracting Level
(A)   Annual investment plan/total commitments  - Actual            %
(B)   Annual investment plan/total commitments  - Target    -----S
(C)   Achievement ratio                                        ----- 
2.    Physical/Financlal Execution Proaram
(D)   Aggregate actual execution                               $Col--
(E)   Aggregate execution target                               $Col--
(F)   Achievement ratio                                        -----
3.    Road Maintenance Program
(G)   Routine maintenance carried out                          ---- m
(H)   Periodic maintenance carried out
- Unpaved roads                                          ----KM
- paved roads                                            ----Km
(I)   Achievement of program target                            -----%
PART II (detailed data)
1.          Contractinc Volume
-     total number of investment contracts;
-     Actual outlays on each project by year;
-     cost of completing each project in progress (base cost plus
adjustments);
-     estimated total cost of each project in progress.
2.          Physical/Financial Execution Proaram
An execution profile will be assigned for each project at its
inception, showing the anticipated investment curve based on the unit prices
and quantities to be executed quarterly. The original profile should be
changed by MOPT only if sufficient justification exists for modifying the work
program. The ratio of work executed to work programmed will be monitored by
the consultants and will determine the degree to which the target has been met
for each project.
Where projected resources have not been forthcoming, execution
should be calculated as: (work executed + resources not transferred in



- 113 -                      ANNEX 5
Attachment 
Page 2 of 2
respect of basic cout)/work programmed. The implementation program by
contract and by quarter for 1992-95 is set out in attachment 2.
3.          Maintenance Prooram
The consultants will monitor tho extent to which the quarterly
mainz-nance program has been carried out. The year-by-year maintenance
program for 1992-9S, together with quarterly goals for 1992, are set out
attachment 3.
4.          Institutional Action Proqram
The consultants will monitor progress on which institutional
action provided for in the Loan Agreement. The program is set out in
attachment 4.



Gl1 oat           OOOI        rloot        01oot       rloot       0.001       roOl oot olo              199       1P9           saeo's                      CINVI-ZIIIA 30 J-0VUtV1
~~999  ~~~9*9   ~~~  E999  p993  %999         %*9*B       E999        999        9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l0o  *9W9  flis    ---- Ad       also               IIVWTv-ovUV      a
0:o0t       0:0ot        0or         rot         rot            o        0001         Icc         ro          oo c          00           U                           (Va1iDI 02d-3amw1 opo)
(1i         c  1111     vIts         tis        1*tI        r'is        flits       *iss       VE*t         LISLZ        010         flit           Ad     0'ct         010IA  low iv wU        it
0o0t.          0:ot        a-Got       0ooot        rool        rloot      0root         root        0100t        169         clef       SIllB                      (vwzti Vn-ADS old torri1)
in        a09 Go        *609-  -- :!.               -a-169t B49'  6091   Z6009t     6009t      B60911    B6091"T       ZT   ...... K9 ----!I.... Z60-----    --------- ?Th 1V?TH --t
04         Gl~oat       rloot       root        0:oot       0-001       oroot       0root       0root        0root        I*9s        9s          1i6 I                       (,zrt VI 192-inroad 11)
mloot       r1foot      voouooo                  ro       -root          rot          ootu t  el  IrmOt       Belo                            --------B                 (LI -----    ----------
ILSBI00        01L1         0L8B1        1L811       0LIBI       0L90I       119B.1       0LBBI       0LBBt       rBBL         rOOK        1L911-         (ditOA O1G(kSvn O1~L                       I
rIEBI  CillI  oilBt  o~~~~~lBl  0*IIB*t  OulBI     Quill       QilB~~~~~I    ouiglB     6i19l       89091        Gullol        All    clo            0131VBULWWVu    I
0:001       0-001      ;root         r-oot-      Co-oti      rOt         0.001       0oil          ioo        rolo         arc            u3t1UVMV0S1ou     II33
rot         Oiole                   rotrt f                  root        p: 0.Io    91oll         vftf        tlBo         01L         **llotl                            (   oius-iv7vi3KU      S
rloot       rloot        -oot       aloof        aloof       rloot        @aot        Gint        Oioot       L11          eBls         1119'1                        (OtitiV.L2O-vsZodmV
1011       rIOn         'isolB     v101t        Sligo,]     91i01B    0%16011        111 11        1011'iol  SBOL         oi9Bl       1011l          U!     slit   IOI-rr2nz-elrrt3            lB
0:oot       OOOt        oiOt        aloot        rloot      0oiot         000t         loot       root        ct09         Olow        01911                                  (S3BMVS-3fal i)
.4    ,O*          Bi9 Ott1    91031       B*BOt*       BIIOt       91011       SlOt*t      cB1to       91011       c  Saot      C16t        69191           Ad    0CR9          0t33211-6v31311 1 
root1.      0:iot       0101t       0:i          0-001       0root        0.00!       16B6        rl9         6111         101e        t*9011 B'930m (1UlV1-OS1aGi)
BIli       11111       9BIIIT       1B1 6BBtil               9311f-     91611       9OLt'       01191       P69LB        nz,         P1Ad                  Olff             03136hj.OlSTyd    91
0001       0.101       0.101        0101t       0loat       0101         010         rOt ol        010       19B9         SiB9       o61091                            (91936  -IUVW2OV311)
fit01      010!l       O1IOt        rollt       rOottl      B16cl       WIWI         Ii, l             0ml   6919         $,otiBvlf                  9 LBBBI                (VImnsoa-m i
01001      rolot        0101t        0101t       010t        root        @ioot        rolo        ciot        0BL          309         V1I6 (9 uCwuVl3vnu-ovgm viB)
0:001       0-001       0.0OT        0101        0101T       010Kt       0001         0,01        0101p        9*l         119          OiLntC                            (uV3lvmvOI-snVux)
'L611      S'1661        -11661     P'FL16      9166          16         16           16         P1 01 S6199'1  1 cf-  -:!!----!!! --- :! ----- ----- m--- Ad    -----   MYIVWIWOOTIIII --t
0OGIS       0 0016      0:0116       rO:1.      05:016       O056 Col.     00016                  0016f        BIBI        P9111       0116SMI        Ad      91           WTIUDS-VI1mali
r oOt       r otot      sio          0101         ciOft---- root      root            voot       Srootc       cots         net 9        *691 cltl             Ot      abeormms-omm~ Vt
0:009       0:0109      00            19         nB            B9         00              9       0109         911Gloat                0109           Adfee   rotil           (sams0-mrs31 II
96 KIDS      9639       6UUZ           16 383   BA 32UU0G   9 3Ir   16323130:0 16  *1 B   030                   63        61310           AUi      0SAU3, 
1  C ----- 9 tot 9   w1'   11i6M)    12152338l..      s  Ii11-slo.          991' 9AUIASZUI  AAA I          1 O1 ....RO0D                           s tat07:3IS21a
-   -     ----- -   -----                                                                                       - ------      -- --------- --------- --------- ---------
oloof  oloot  oloot  010T     clook       oloo          0 61@B 89161          91VUU   531C9 01                        ,al                        (sJ.1-!49vvm
1,5150  L'ti'l - I'gt"o I'st",         WUUdl  9110130 SOIifltmi ---01123otol                     LSs"             1     OGY       lof i-IAII-l-- 
-- -   - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- -  - - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -



THIRD UATI09Ai Komn  sumlo  ?I.w?
ROAD VWUtS INITIATED U068LOAN 282f-CO
FMU IRAS WVOGU81 (1992.1995)
FIRST VWA P'1OMM8 f1992)
0                                             TOTAL COST                C O)89L A T I  E    I UVIB6ST HEU TS    81T   S EKtS T E R               (IN SOLLt0*AND UCEWfACE)
I             am8            LDGTU  PRPOSED   .iW/91    OEDI6ER 91  JONE 92  DECEMBERA 92  JWE 93  OWECUER 93  JUNE 94  DECOMER 94   JUNME 93   DEcmuU 95  JUI 96   OVECI2U  96
s          (SECTION)          (FM)    vNER   M(IU.t83(LLIONS(miLo)  (Mt-LLION)  ($11L1ION)  (SNLLIOI9   $ILI4) (S      IULLION)  ( $ILI S)0ILLION)  (S8(IU.IW3o  (SKIL1LION)  (MUlLION)  MILtLION)
T,                                             (0ss3000)  (CtH. Z)   (CUI. I)    (CUM. 1)   (CUM. 1)   (CMi. 2)   (CUMi. 21   (CMI. 2)   (CMi. 23   (ClIi. I)   (CMi. 28   (CU!t. II
18   iEIVA-?OPAIA ---------  .3       ----- 2,44-3.7---- 6804-.6 --- 0-64 ---                      --43---3.  1-.44-3.?    8,443.7-8,443.   1-.4-43.?7 -----1,4.7             14.
(LABERtUTD-PAICIILp                         2,292.3        47.4        13.7       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       100.9       100.0       100.0      100.0
3    IUEZEi-IARR4BQOILA    44.7    83         4,143.9       832.4    1,478.0    2,069.6    2,498.8    2,607.9    3,325.9    4,143.9    4.143.9    4,143.9    4,143.9    4,143.9
(EL CA3M13CARRET)                           67.?           20.6        35.5        10.4       40.3        70.2        65.1 I     800.0      100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
CUIo39qOI6u-a4*30          23.6    1V ,236.4                144.9      990.7    1.236.4    8,336.4    1,236.4    1,236.4    1,236.4         1,234.4    1,236.4    1,236.4      1,236.4
(ICNIqUhIMPIRA-FTEM0E83)                    8,963.2        60.2        60.8       100.0      800.0       800.0       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
I   HBEDLLlR-4, U              43.5    PW        8,608-o. 7 -------3.2 ----0-" 7 .0'--- 1-8-906.7 8--  , 8 080 . 7 ----,80608.7 --  1. 8 0 8 . I    8. 6 083 . ?   I- ,8 06.--7  -1,6 06.7  -1,80. ; 7  1.906.?7
(B&RROSA-CtSWERDS)                          2,673.9         0.3        S0.8       8 00.0     800.0       100.0       100.0      800.0       100.0       100.0       800.0      100.0
8   1i1012.L1i4U830    8~~       ~~6.  WV 1607.3       78.6    1,898.3       8,607.3    1,607.3    1,607.3    1,607.3    1.601.)    1,607.3    1,607.3    1.607.3    1,607.3
(c18000-O-pTE COROZAL)                      1.352.1        49.1        74.6       800.0      800.0       300.0       300.0      300.0       100.0       100.0       800.0      800.0
8   8IEOELI.1i-10R80  ~~~~26.  ;V ,06.8                443.8       769.6    8,006.3    3,096.1    8,096.8    8,094.3    1,090.1        8,096.8    1,096.1    1,094.8I    1,098.8
A(TE COROZAL-L .9t. RO)                      8,740.4        40.4       10.2       800.0       800.0       100.0      100.0       800.0       800.0       800.0      300.0       800.0
I  iEO i94IK-C-E8EUJO 8---- 0-6.16 ----     6,615.9--  ----- 54-8.7--- 1,-3-70-.2--- 2,89-1.7 ----3,4-44-.6 -- 4,697.4    -,94.6 7,2 -. 7.,953.--9  -8,633.6    6,615.9    6,613.9
(BELLO081 RIOcNM)                          83,480.4         6.4        15.9        23.4       40.0        54.5        69.6       84.1        92.3       100.0       100.0      100.0
Is   PAIHMR.S*1AB0Afl           33.6    3?        %066.1         86.0        86.0       66.0    8,453.7    3,617.4    3,941.8    5,096.8    5,064S.!    5,048.8    3,066.1    3,066.8
MOLRIDA-SMASTIES)                           8,044.0         1.7         8.7         8.7       28.1        55.6        11.8      100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0      800.0
3   CA93IUi-iOScW1A.VIFAR  40.5    PT        4,830.4       682.5    1,646.8    3,285.0    3,740.1    4,246.3    4,538.4         ,6810.4    4,810.4    4,810.4    4,610.4    6,8l0.4
(CAIIEEZAl1i8A81)                           7,639.0        34.2        40.5       66.8        77.8        66.7        94.3      100.0       100.0       300.0       100.0      100.0
4   TIIRJA-CNIQUIBM&ZA         37.6    13          755.8       202.8       418.6       735.8      155.8       755. 1      733.1      755.8       733.1       733.8       755.1      755.8
(TU88JA.YIUA BE! LEIVA)                     3,199.0        26.0        63.4       800.0      300.0       100.0       100.0      800.0   .  300.0        800.0       100.0      100.0
8   8OGOTA-918.LAYO   ~~~~42.0  1        231.          448.2       982.5    1,363.6    1,851.6    2,331.6    2,333.6    2,338.8    2,331.8    2.331.0    2,333.6    2,331.8
(CIIIP*QOE.E 681                            3. 702,4       86.9        39.8        59.3       79.7       800.0       800.0      100.0       800.0       100.0       300.0      100.0            -
(SAN8 10QUE.8OSCURIA)                       5,154.2        38.9        47.3        55.7       1 7.9      100.0       100.0      800.0,      100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
*8--3 it-v IVA-  p IT AEl T O ----- 6-- s.0- --------- 2,51816.3-----0 86-2.4,    1,8 6.2  8,-I1 . 0 9 . 9-----2, 28- 4 .8I--- 2,5736.3    2,7383 ---- --- 2,-7 188.-3  -2, 7,1-6.-3    2,718.3 -   2,-718.$ 5  -2,716.3'
(RICOI.0t-PIT4LITO)                         4,316.8        38.1        47.3        62.9       81.5       800.0       800.0      300.0       800.0       100.0       800.0      100.0
2   OCAf.CIICOTA               51.0    W          1,874.3      638.7    1,256.5      8,874.3    1.874.3    1.874.3    1,674.3    8,674.3    1,674.3    8,676.3    18,74.5    1,874.3
(OCAR&.EL TAM8)                             2.976,0        34.8        67.0       800.0      100.0       300.0       300.0      100.0       100.0       100.0       800.0      800.0
35   IlA18CA.COCUTS,         500     86         8224.2    3,2.          ,829       8234.2    8,24.2    1,224.2        8,2242      8,224.2     ,2.2    1,.2           1224.2    1,224.2
1B81HA80-E. PICACIOS                         8,943.6       91.8        95.9       800.0      100.0       100.0       300.0      800.0       800.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
36   6hIAIGA.CS ----------- 13.0- --------33;:i---  2,81.8 1,106 . 3 ---1.96-3.? 2----6 --.0    2,88I81.0-    2.863,0--- 2-.381-0 ----2,-863-.0--- 2,861-.0 --- 2,86.I- 1. 0    2,88. 1.- 1 0  -2,-  868.- 0
(EL. FICACUO-PANP8.CiA)                     3,463.2        76.2        89.8       300.0      800.0       300.0       300.0      800.0       100.0       100.0       800.0       100.0
I8    8EOELIU.Q01B00           86.0    WV        3,366.9       351.6       976.0    8,400.4    1,934.5    2,506.3       2,948.7    3,386.9    3,389.9    3,386.9    3,366.9    3,388.9
(RIDLU1I0O-C.8OLIYAR)                       5,360.9        86.3        26.8        41.3       37.7        74.0        67,0      800.0       800.0       800.0       800.0      800.0
8    mL1OIosucio        49.0    WV        80,286.8      992.8    2,151.6    3,310.4    4,341.7    5,773.3    7,023.8    8.273.1    9,279.9   10,266.8   10,286.8   10,2i96.8
(REMOLING.JARDIU)                           86,333.4        9.1        20.9        32.2       44.2        56.8        68.3       60.6        90.2       890.0       800.0      100.0
35   IRUICA2. 88A0.IE ----- 20.3    WV-    2,248.3---- 260o.0 3----59-2.3         90.0------  8,376.7----- 3,246.--3--- 2,-2-48.6 2243 --2,246.3    2,248.3--2,248.3    2,2-4-8.3
(91.02-IA LIZAIIA)                          3,568.9        12.5        26.4        40.3       70.1       100.o        000  100.0 1     00.0       100.0       100.0 8     00.080.
13 s-- Ai 880 8E010i             6.1--- K   ---; --  1,3628-0.              668.8     8,362.8-8,362.-    8,--i362 .8 81--- .3-62.1    1,321     836 2.1---   1, 3 62.   K 1321-    8,362.1 
(SAN8 JUo -it 27)                           2,162.8         0.0        30.0       800.0      100.0       100.0       800.0      800.0       100.0       800.0       100.0      100.0
00 itt
T 0T A L        3,962.2            $308,379.2  $24,966.9  S46.349,5  $66,110.1  $71,026.3  $87,487.0  $92,767.0  $96,.067.0  $09,713.9  $101,390.8  $301,380.6  $101.380..
360,970.5       24.6        45.9        61.2       76.8        66.3        91.5       96.7        98.4       800.0       100.0      800.0
0 
M6   *Double Surt-see Treatment                                   IC - 660t10t01100
CAT   Otheir Asphalt Treetsutm                                    0? -Overly
PCC  - attlemA Cement Comet-et                                     V -  VIVSu
OR   -Otevl                                                       VC-NW Comstmcttloo



tHtVD  ATIONAL  00DS SEC.  P31CCT
#0D 5O2t1S IWITIATID  IYt3 rIM'S O5FI rD
FoUL TEAR FROGIlit 3S332-3333)
CIM. ACTS TO BE FIN=D  (n3 t991
O                                               T-A-. COST                C u      LA TIE    INVESTMENTS    a1    SV E      T E A                     (I  3I.tLIti WANU    XI94 AE55
IROAD                 U3G11 iLO EDR   JUN93    occMUs  91  JOE 32   DEcIHUU 32   JUNE 93   01301E  93   JUItE 94  tiECOSER 34   OK33 31  IMDU3 35  333K 96   DECMIIG  90
s           gSmcrow)           (Kw)    ,woxt     MILLI.OrN  EsHiLLIIUI  I$10II1.1I1OUSIOULSO       MLLIONl(21UIM   (SNEt.LUIVI  (511tLLk393  (ShiaIl(m)U $HIU.1445   ISfILLiIW2  4$I"I.lIIm  (SM1111W3
3                                                (iS$    )   ICE"g. 1)   (cant. tj    tca'. z1   (CON. 12    ttSHe )  (a. 1)          let'"IO. I)  cD. 1S" 3 21   tcm. 1I   (Ml. 21    (CmL. 
r1  * to1A.rnoEtr5.IV           26.3     3         2.101.          0. 0 o03.0             362.0       115. S     343.j      3,633.      1.0li.0     2,30.4      2  .12.103.?            1.101.?
4K90-CACUD AI.rEnlE-?33I703                   4,19Z.2         0.0         4.1         33.4        23.0        4.5         5e.1        1.3         0.4        t0.0        Io0.0        l0e.0
I   NEOKLLIN.TU.R O31.,    Fl                      2.3210          0.0       513.7      1.141.      3 1.434.    1t.45.0     t.0o1-.     2,32?.4     2,321.0     2.311.0     2.-222      2.33ty.
(SANTA rE DE 4.-CAtIWO)                       363.0           3.0        245'.6       49.1        44.1        101.        03.4       309.0       I00.0       300.0       100.0       0oo.o
T 0 T A L           46.0  (sIlil.a  $1,020.0          $0.0      S134.1    $109. 3    $2,242 3   $2.00  3    DAMS33.5    $.404.6   $4,2 0.2    $5,010.0    $1030.6    $0.
11301.9         0.0        33.0        30.0,       44.1        53.3         12.         01.6       613.0       300.0       100.0       100.0
SUOMACE urci                                                        rtorosED imx.
AC      A.Pba.t Coe,.t*                                             00 - R.t.Sibitst13
Ovs?   Dcht. So. i.e. Tr.osIt                                       ItC - 1caUintOtIou
oAr  - Otb   Aspholt Tf.vtoout                                     0U  - Oweslq
ICC     hectloud Comm  Comeot.                                      I9 - 
0'
ir



COIAIWIA
0113230 NATWIUSL ROADS SWCTDR 130W?T
ROADma  mr IITIAlSD 138 CUSTRACT)
- OU   =i  Paco=  (3924s9)
ItiST TM  P20U3 (992)
ToTALcosm                  CUI(OLA?2V11    IUTZSTM!uIS    a I    S ENESTER                           aN 11LIUSAWPUcYtACEI
DIST          Rm             LTU  PPOSED    JUl91   D0832  91 9CJU   92   DICURiE 92  *I  93   MEMBER 93  JUNE 9   DECUUU 94   JtE 95  DtECMSE 93   SfNE S6   83235 96
(no       (SECTIONCm)        (KM)    VSW    (SHI#IU)  0ILLION)  (SnILLIOU)  ($MILLIO9() t$mLIa)  (S3LLIOt)  ($1IWLLtU)   KIILLIUSI  ($MILLION) t(HILLUO)   (UL2OU)  0SKILL2)
(USSI$O0)  (CIu. 2)   (CU. 2)    (CLII. 2)   t(C. t)   (CtU. 2)    (CUO. 2)   (CR. t2   (CUM. 2)    (CUR. 2)    (ct. 2_ (ClU. 2)
tAiZAI.ES.PUI2A 5us.3            tC        i.97S3          0.0        429i.9                                     --7.7    i;U6.5  i,3.3  2 i6;7s.;  2,91. j .615.)    2.;57.)    2,975.3  2975.3
(IAtIADB CUtCUU)                              *353.4          0.0        14.9        29.8        64.9       100.0       100.0       300.0        100.0       100.0         .0        100.0
OOOOTA-nnLUA92CtO          13.0    NC         5,063.0         0.0       321.9       243.7       940.1     1.434.4     22.9s.5      3,S6.7      * 119.t    35063.0    3,03.0       3,033.0
(YARTERT DCL 33O1t)                           8.070.8         0.0 o.'                 4.9        16.5        29.3        43.2        62.1        S1.I        100.0       300.0 o00.0
HA3t219.S.PUEI             13.0    3C         3,290.9         0.0       632.2      3,624.4    2,942.7     *,053.0      4,133.7     4,246.3    '..SS.6      3,9.9o    3,290.9    3,290.S
(YTAUAmtA LK 8LUA-CL  OLL8) 6400.9                            0.0        13.'        30.7        33.7        76.1        76.5        90.3        90.3        100.0       100.0       300.0
(L0SOGUU9.38-9Ug 9Ufl3A)                      5.333,9         0.0        20.0        40.0        70.0      3100.0        100.0      100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0      3X00.0
SUWTOTAL 1I2ST  mlVl  mom 0IJ l99((llc t $17 23t.3           $0.0   $2,10.       $4,3213.4     ,341.5   $12.3651    $13,314.6   $314,267.4   $153752.9  $17.23. 3  $17,233 3   $17S238.3
21,371.1         0.0        12.3        23.3        46.4         13.7       17.2        62.9        91.4        100.0       3900.0      300.0 
SECOlD TM    PROCRAN (1993)
*fl             fl                      _                        ,,             .         a _
TOrAL cosT                c I  H  L A T I VE   1 tN T E S T n E t T       s a Y    s E n  E s r t     a  (IN SILLI  AMI ItCEI
DIST          ROAD           LEICTU  PRor0ED    Jul93l   DEDCENER 91  JUNE 92   DECE(ER 92   JUNE 93  DfEC33E1 93  JUN1E 94   DECLI3ED 94  JULE 95   DECD)tElt 95  JUNE 95   NECIEIE 9*
(to       (SECTItI)          (Ku)   1mm       ((IILLIOI)  4$3ILLIO()  (SMIL3.LION)  ($liILLIU3  (smIu.INW)  ($tIILLICNII  ($MI.LIow)  ($S3LLION)  ($113.LION)  (" Lumt ($MmuoU)  ($LLIOU)
("S$1000)  (CON. 2)   (CtlH. 2)    (CiR. 12)    (CU. 2)   (cICt. 2X   (CIII. 1)   (CtlH. 2)   (CUM. 2)   (CMII. 2)   (CUR. 21)   (CU. 21
H t lAt5At/JEl                                                                                  J S.S     tC  3 049.7  0.0  0.0  0 0  433.3  962.6    1 97.S  2.932.9     3.990.  5.046.7  5.049.7  S.06C7  t
(VAlA!NTE SAtA ROSA)                          a0OJ6.4         0.0         0.0         0.0         6.3        17.1        37.6        So.1        79.0        100.0       100.0       300.0
.-                                                                                         -     -     -     -     -     ----------------
0 -0t.DEllLLltt       3.0    NC           353.6         0.0         0.0         0.0       33.9        343.6       363.S       363.6       363.6        363.5      343.6        363.5
(VAAAI3lT LA      )                              77.3         0.0         0.0         0.0        30.0       300.0       300.0       100.0       300.0        100.0      100.0        100.0
H41tlJIZLES.flIElA          7.7    t#         6,939.S         0.0         0.0         0.0        483.1      970.3      1,S33.1     2,659.7     3963.9      5,067.9     3992.4    6,91.6              1
COIIEX. 9113. C33I1E1i321STA ROSA)           10,982.5         0.0         0.0         0.0         7.0        14.0        26.5        39.0        56.1        73.3        84.6        100.0
HEDtlLllt-TUllitO          73.0     tt        3,1771.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       215.7       431.3       790.8     13 30.2    1,941.0      2.731.7      3,254.4     3.777.0
(SAMt CRIS?085L-STA n2 AlTlOQUIA)             5.991.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         5.7        11.4        20.9        30.5        51.4        12.3        96.2        100.0
T     a JA-1ttC5YI        104.0    RU         5,325.5         0.0         0.0         0.0       431.3        52.5     1,634.6    2,945.5    3,924.9       5.003.2      .564.4    6.125.6
(TUiAA-VADO REAL)                            9,726.3          0.0         0.0         0.0         7.0        14.1        30.3        4.5.        64.1        S1.7        90.6       100.0
___..____  _____     ---------------_-_-----            ---_--- -------- ------- -------- -------- ------- -------- ------- -------- -------- -------_-_--_-_------_ -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  --__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _  -----------------____
IIOCOTA-CAU33'.A           33.4    nP         3,256.4         0.0         0.0         0.0       215.7       411.4       843.9     1.256.4    1,256.4      1,256.4     1.256.4      1.236.4
(IH 50-CACIETA)                              13994.9          0.0         0.0         o.0        17.2        34.3        67.2       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       300.0
331D29LLllt-SIMIlE         S0.S    7Jt        * 4.159         0.0         0.0.        0 0       253.0       317.6     1,031.2      1,552.7    2.329.1     3.105.4     3.632.2    4,156.9
(RIO N IECi-PTO. VALDIVIA)                    64603.5         0.0         0.0         0.0         6.2        12.4        24.9        31.3       53.0         74.1        67.3       300.0
SARAVDIA.CitIUAOtA.cUCtT   20.0    tn         3,824.1         0.0         0.0         0.0       379.6       339.35       19.O     1.078 4     1.451.5    13,24.1    1,924.7       1.24.7
(KM 32-TOLEDO)                                2,997.3         0.0         0.00        0.0         9.9        3S.1        39.4        59.1        79.6       100.0       100.0       100.0
SttSlOT4L 3SEClt uA  i09t  (39($Hillto)   29,471.7            0.0         0.0         0.0     2,399.5    4,799.0      9,337.8   13,676.5   19,139.1   24,403.6   25,936.7   29,413.1
(3S$1000)  46,795.3          0.0         0.0         0.0         6.3        16.3        31.7       46.1 .4.9                82.6        91.4       100.0
T o r A L t     9 9 2 - I 9 9 (StIIl1on)   465710.0        0.0     2,160.7    4,321.4   10,741.1    17,160.9   22,532.4   26,143.9   34,693.9   4133".9   64,373.0  4'.910.0
(US$C00 )   74,166.'        0.0          4.6         9.3        23.0        36.7        48.3        60.3        74.1        89.3        94.6       100.0
SilAl0 TiE                                                          PROPOSED 6K                                                                                                                   to     I
AC        Asphalt Comrmt-                                          ItE - Rebabllttatlon                                                                                                          t
DSt - Doualle Surface Treete4tt                                     Rc . R*conta8t1 et                                                                                                      f
OAT    Other Aspbalt Treatment                                      oC   Overlay 
PCC  * Portla  Coeent Coeret                                         T * Pswing                                                                                                              4 
iIt
0 i



- 118 _
ANNEX S
Attac hment 4
Page 1 of 2
Institutional Actions
MOPT shall carry out each of the fol3owing actionst
1.   Complete, not later than December 31, 1992, the document on road
technical specifications under Part B.1 (e) (1) of the Project.
2. Complete, not later than December 31, 1992, th& document on road
geometric design standards under Part B.1 (e) (2) of the Project.
3. Complete, not later than June 30, 1993, the manual on engineering norms
and guidelines under Part B.1 (e) (3) of the project.
4. Adopt new pre-qualification guidelines for civil works bidding, not
later than July 31, 1992.
S.   Complete the civil works supervision manual under Part B.1 (c) of the
project not later than June 30, 1993.
6.   Carry out an economic analysis of the national road network not later
than December 31, 1992.
7.   Install automatic traffic counters in, at lest, thirty percent (302) of
all toll stations by December 31, 1992; fifty percent (50X) of all toll
stations by December 31, 1993; seventy-five percent (75X) of all toll stations
by December 31, 1994; and in all toll stations by December 31, 1995.
8.   Put into operation five sets of portable weighing scales by not later
than December 31, 1992 and eight additional sets of portable weighing scales
by not later than December 31, 1993.
9.   Employ, not later than September 30, 1992, and thereafter maintain, a
full-time international trade specialist for purposes of coordinating all
training actOvities under the Project related to internodal transport
facilitation.
10. Prepare not later than June 30, 1993, a plan of action to facilitate
international transport procedures and regulations.
11. Complete the pavement design guide under Part B.1 (b) of the Project not
later than June 30, 1993.
12. Establish and make operational not later than June 30, 1993, the
computerized management information system under Part B.1 (d) of the Project.



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 2
13. Employ, not later than December 31, 1992, consultants for the carrying
out of the study of the decentralization of the national road network referred
to in Part B.2 (a) of the Project.
14. Carry out the study to evaluate performance of road materials and
pavements under Part B.2 (b) of the Project not later than Juan 30, 1994.
15. Carry out the study of the road construction industry under part B.2 (c)
of the Project not later than December 31, 1993.
16. complete final engineering designs, for all roads Eligible Sub-projects
referred to in the Eligible List not later than December 31, 1992.
17. Complete not later than July 31, 1992, environmental guidelines to be
applied in the implementation of the Project.
18. Employ, not later than December 31, 1992, consultants for the purposes
of implementing a system for road maintenance; and establish and make
operational the referred system not later than December 31, 1993.
Nota: "Project" means the Third National Roads Sector Project financed by the
World Bank. The corresponding Parts of the project are defined in Annex 2 of
the Loan Agreement.



-120 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
COLOMB IA
'JIRQ NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJEC
Road Maintenance Ecquinnent
Eguipment Fleet
1.    The current MOPT road maintenance fleet is composed of 3833 units, of
which 290 (8%) are less than 5 years old; 1782 (46%) between 5 and 10 years
old; 370 (10%) 10 to 15 years old, and 1391 (36%) more than 15 years old. At
present, 1760 units are in service without problems, 777 units in service with
some problems, 483 units need minor repairs and 813 need rehabilitation or
reconstruction. Table 1 shows the various equipment groups and the current
condition of each group. As a result of the road maintenance programs for the
1992-95 period, (Annex 2, Tables 3, 4, 5 and 6) this fleet is not adequate to
carry out the maintenance work fy force account. New units will be needed to
complete or replace old units and many of the existing units between 5 and 10
years old will need major repairs, rehabilitation or reconstruction. Finally,
old units more than 10 years old will be sold at auction or discarded (see
Table 2).
EauiDment Manaaement
2.    At present, equipment management is not satisfactory.  Some units are in
poor condition because they are not properly operated and maintained. MOPT's
capital investment in equipment must be better protected by observing regular
preventive maintenance. The first steps in this direction were taken under
the technical assistance financed under Loan 2121-co and continued under Loan
2829-CO, now in its last phase. The existing structure for equipment
administration is adequate and only minor changes are needed. But, as stated
in Annex 1, para. 3, the coordination between the existing Sub-directorate of
Equipment, the Maintenance Management Unit (GAM) and the Districts must be
enhanced, while a new Road Maintenance Directorate (comprising all the units
related to maintenance) is created and organized.
3.    In the future, each equipment unit should preferably be assigned to a
specific operator who will be responsible for its operation and maintenance.
These operators should be trained under a program developed by the MOPT. Due
to the lack of tenure in operator positions, the program rhould be permanent.
The training will serve to improve the present quality of operation and
maintenance. This Project will finance the proposed training program (see
Annex 8).
4.    Furthermore, the equipment management system initiated with technical
assistance under Loan 2121-CO must be completed and implemented to match the
program for equipment rehabilitation, repairs and maintenance with the real



- 121 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
needs arising from the highways maintenance programs. A component to finance
the completion and implementation of the maintenance and equipment management
system throughout the country is included in the project at a cost of
us$850,000 over a period of two years. Annex 7 contaLns the proposed terms of
reference for this technical assistance.
Ecuinment Accuisition and Rehabilitation
5.    In accordance with che resources needed to carry out the maintenance
programs for 1992-95 (Annex 2, Tables 3, 4, 5 and 6) a total of 753 new units
will be acquired in 1992-94 (see Table 3) at a cost of about US$25 million,
and will be financed by the proposed Project. Twenty five additional units
will be acquired with MOPT own funds (see Table 2).
6.    Furthermore, the units between 5 and 10 years old and some units between
10 and 15 years old will be rehabilitated during the same period, in
accordance with the program shown in Table 4. This program was prepared by
MOPT's Equipment Subdirectorate and includes the needs for the rehabilitation
and major repairs of all the existing units which will not be discarded (i.e.
those whose cost of rehabilitation is less than 40% of their replacement
cost).
7.    The equipment rehabilitation program will be carried out in MOPT's
workshops, which have proper too's, workshop equipment and competent
personnel. The proposed Project will finance US$5 million in spare parts
needed to rehabilitate the equipment listed in Table 4.
Eaui2ment Operational Costs and RJRair
8.    During the project period, large resources will be needed to operate the
equipment for the road maintenance programs. Table 5 shows a summary of the
equipment requirements for fuel, lut-icants, tires and spare parts to make
MOPT's equipment available and operd-ional in the period 1992-95.  These
figures coincide with the requirements for equipment in the maintenance
programs (see Tables 3 to 6 of Annex 2). To ensure that sufficient funds are
available, MOPT will include in its road maintenance budgets for 1992-95, the
amount in pesos equivalent to the amounts in USS shown for each year in Table
5. Close supervision will be needed to monitor allocated resources and to
ensure that they are applied effectively to achieve the equipment availability
and utilization targets. Maintenance and minor repairs of the road equipment
will be carried out by MOPT's workshops which have adequate facilities for
this purpose.



- 122 -
ANNEX 6
Table  I
MOPT's ROAD MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT 8Y ACE AND CONDITION
I       ACE CROUP IN YEARS             I IN SERVICE  I REPAR8ALE   I
TOTAL I COOO  NMBr   1
DESCR!PTION             o 0-5   5-10  10-15    *15    LNITS I COND. REPAIR IMINOR  REVAS  I
8USES                        I           43       2                  15          e o      I       II
PICK-UPS                     I    12    141            255      408 1   140    130 l   82       56 1
PICK-UPS (DOUSLE CADIN)      I     2     40             SO       92 l   31       2S I   15    21 1
JEEPS                        I   131     52      3      61      247'1  125       es1      9     281
LUV-UNITS                                38             30       68 1   38        6 1    6       18 I
AMNULANCES                   I           11             13       24 I    11       9 I    1       3 |
CRANE-CAS                    I           20             16       36 1    10       7 1    3       7 1
TRACTO-TRUCKS                            49             ;1       80 1   38        8 1    4      10 I
SEMITRAILERS                 l           49             27       76 1   53       13 l    3       7 I
DUMP-TRUCKS                  I          551    277    115       971 I  *81       98 I  172    220 |
ASPHALT-TRUCKS               I           10             18       28 I    9        7 I    4       8 I
TRVCKS (1O TONS OR LESS)    I            17              0       256      16      SI      3      41
TRUCKS (MORE THAN 10 TONS)               40             10       501    32        aI      2      a1
WATER TRUCKS                             34             18       SO1    30       101      3       71
COMBUSTIOLE TRUCKS           I           35             31       66       32     13 I    5       16 I
PAVIN MARKINOS               I            5              3        8I       5      21             1l
PATCHING UNITS               I           20              3       23       14      aI      2      41
ASPHALT IRRICATOR TRUCK      I           29             21       SO       31      4 1    6       9 I
REPAIR TRUCKS                I           58             45      103       s 58   10 I           26 1
TRACTORS (SO HP OR LESS)   I   22       87            119      228 |   83       3S I   47      63 1
TRACTORS (HORE THAN 1SO HP) I             e              5       13        3      21      4      4'
ACRICULTURAL TRACTOR         I            2             36       38 I    O       14 1            15 I
FRONT-LOADERS (TRACKED)      I                          25       25 I    2        9 I    4      10 1
FRONT-LOAOERS (TIRES)             e 81   89             63      233 I   75       77 I   32      49 I
MOTOR CRADER5                           I 188    86     58      3:21  152        421    32      861
EXCAVATORS (TIRES)                                       1        1 |             1                 I
EXCAVATORS (TRACKED)         I   20      10             27       57 1    12       7 1    6      12 1
BACKNOES (TIRES)                                         4        A I      1      1 I     1      1 1
8ACKHOES (TRACKE)                                                 I    20          I               1
ROLLERS (TAND-E.)                                       17       171    4         5 I            8 1
ROLLERS (3 TIRES)                                       13       13 1             4 I            9 i
VISRATINO COMPACTORS         I          120                     120 1   93        7 I    8      12 1
VIBRATINC ROLLERS                                       18       18 1             8 1    2       8
TIRE COMPACOR                I    17                     7       24       17      11      2      4'
ASPHALT PLANT                I            6       2      4       121    a         11      1      41
ASPHALT MIXER                                            7        71              4'      1      21
PAVERS                       I           10             14       241       9      91      2      AI
COLD ASPHALT MIXERS          I            4                       4        4        1               1
CONCRETE MIXRS                                          36       361       6     161    3       11 |
ACGRECATE SPREADSR                                      18       18 |I            8 a     2      2
SWEVPIN  MACHINES                                       10       10 |             4 |            6 |
ASPHALT MOTOR PUMPS          |                          20       201    4         91    2        5I
COMPRESSORS (600 OR LESS)   I                           53       53       20     23       3      71
COMPRESSORS (MCRE THAN 600) I             4                       4        1      1       1      11
CRILLINJC                                4                       41       2      11      1         I
SOIL 8ORINCS                                             14     141       2      61    2        41
PRIMARY CRUSHERS             I                          24       24 I    6        7 I           11 1
SECONOARY CRUSHERS                                      12      1t  1    2        2 1            8 I
DVAL CRUSHERS                      5                    21       :SI       $      AI    e        101
CLASSIFIER PLANTS            I                          Ic       1' 1               I     t      3 I
TOTALS        290   1782    370   1391      3633    1760    777'   483   $13
..     ...            . .....................................               ............,         . ..



se~:~osz z q3o 2p  pez;nbpw  eq oxr 
I                                                                                   sioox MNY ZJ3lIlba Dgmidlo
                                                                                                   SW=n   a3fi-Xrla
I                                                                                S.ilRf 33RYWunvR 3001)11 TI1OR
LT         it           99     IT       0e            or                                                      s.LMlIifal fl1101
00?                                                                                                        saIJld svo
.........  ......... ..... .. usas.ass*as....            -- -------------------------------------------------------
SC  El  SE            OT~~~~ IT                   ?      C      CSOt 1003)
CZ    C           9                                                   I                                  SONtCYRONiAlx
SI      9       ICC99 99                    19? CI         99     9L    fT               S1oiQYo)1L
I                ~~~~OTT    9     CTT                          19     CIT    C      99      9~      S)1Ei.VY  ONUMSYI
S    ~ ~ ~~~ ~    T               S                    ST      CT     91     0?     CT                    S)13ONYIM    ONI3L
IT                    Of L6 0           IT    L6     6?            V       CT     C?I  Z   C?OCT           S)1OLVOU)i Z.WInS
at        *CT           St              C0T                          CZ    fz      CZ     S C      z        MGM CUNI ONIRLvJ
I                 QT    ZT~                     01T            C9    C9      59    1.91 T. uoam                       xmsihAV
9c          0I              9T    E         e            OCT  TST    9C    LET    ILT                s3.MY1( LWNJ
TZ                0~~~91          91                          0      TCOz1                           SIOI   KZlX7WSSr
c    CZ           CZ~~T  6        SC                   C              SI CC    T91   9      C9              xu   VIO
SE                      SC     I                      ITTO                  9T      T     ST      9T                 S)10S! CIO
C9                CC?~~~~ 64I6                         II      00     00     El    CI       CC                 S13 0VO1WdS
9T1               Et      I   I  t              C      ET      9TI    CLT    08      St     00T                 )IZZOOTIfl
01     T              9                    0?      0C     ZC     CC     SC    IC                   9anOBs.OV9
-- - -        - - - -     - -    - - -    - -    - -    - -     - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O30)1VOS1   03IIflbO   TYL    7i 3I CT              -    9      SI '            9      9     S9sns
V9 4LIf bz         b9                              i          isIt 00                T             1661SE    NOLI1l3 U cizvi
--- --- -    - --- --- --- -    - --- -n - --  ----S-X    ----  ----- ----   ----   -----N     -- -- - -- - - -- - -- -- - -- -
ot  iz  I   ly                   oz     cc     VC      cc ~03)1V~ IC N  9333  JJW0IDb2GVO)
------ --    --- -----   ------ ------ ------ ------ ----- --       --- ------ ------ ------ ----       - ------ ------ -----
cmemn     aninav 7v.0.tl.VR,cnj 57   151-11 OT91 9-    9661   47661 C66I   r6TI T6O
1a ox       alxY3 .zzuso  auib
9 1n31W        un3--------------------    ---------------



- 124 -
ANNEX 6
TABLE 3
Road Equipment Acquisition Program
(1992-1994)
YE-AR - 1992           YEAR - 1993              YEAR - 1994
EQUIPHENT DESCRIPTION       IMITS  UNIT COST  TOTAL COST  UNIT COST  TOTAL COST  UNIT COST  TOTAL COST
(US         (US 8)     (US S)       (US 8)      (US)        (US)
1: Utility vehicles           25                             17,000     425,000
:Spare parts                                                            42,000
2: Pickups - Gaso. engine    80       8,500      680,000
:Spare parts                                    68,000
3: Double cabin pickup        30                             10,000      300,000
:Spare parts                                                            30,000
4: Gas pumps                 200                              1,500      300,000
:Spare parts                                                            30,000
5: Dump trucks (5m3)         200     40,000   8,000,000
:Spare parts                                   800,000
6: Mobile Lub-units           17                             40,000      680,000
:Spare parts                                                            68,000
7: Mobile bridge maint. units 1                                                     350,000      350,000
:Spare parts                                                                                    35,000
8: 3.5 ton Flat-bed truck      3                             25,000       75,000
:Spare parts                                                             7,000
9: Flat-bed for water tnk.   50                                                     35,000    1,750,000
:Spare parts                                                                                    175,000
10: Drilling equip. & tools   1                                                    160,000       160,000
!spare parts                                                                                   16,000
11: Cold asphalt mix plants   6                             70,000     420,000
,spare parts                                                          42,000
12: Oil teeting equip.         1                                                                 200,000
13: Backhoes                  10                            85,000     850,000
:Spare parts                                                          85,000
14: Patching units            25                            60,000   1,500,000
:Spare parts                                                         150,000
15: Vibrating compactors      40                                                   35,000    1,400,000
:Spare parts                                                                                 140,000
16: Motograders               54      85,000   4,590,000
:Spare parts                                   459,000
17: Pave marking equip.        2                                                   40,000       80,000
:Spare parts                                                                                   8,000
18: Spare parts                                    85,000
19: Spare parts for                            3,000,000             2,000,000
existing equip.
TOTALS:                      753               17,682,000             7,004,000              4,314,000
GRAND TOTAL: US$29,000,000



- 125 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
EQUIPMENT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(1992-1995)
FIRST PERIOD (1992-1993)
UNIT       TOTAL      REPLACING
EQUIPMENT                TYPE OF WORKS           UNITS         COST        COST         COST        A I B
DUMP-TRUCKS                      REPAIR                121         6,000     726,000       30.000      20.002
WATERTRUCKS                      REPAIR                  7         7,000      49,000       94,000      20.592
PATCHING UNITS                   REPAIR                  2         6,000      12,000       43,000      13.952
RECONSTRUCTION          1        16,000      16,000      43,000       97.212
NOTORGRADERS                     REPAIR                 33        15,000     495,000       84,000       17.86S
RECONSTRUCTION         25       27,000      675,000      84,000       32.13!
VIBRATING COMPACTORS             REPAIR                  7        10,000      70,000      56,000       17.862
RECONSTRUCTION          4       15,000       60,000      56,000       26.792
TIRE COMPACTORS                  REPAIR                  1        10,000      10,000       41,000      24.392
PRIMARY CRUSHERS                 REPAIR                  6        26,000     156,000      130,000      20.002
RECONSTRUCTION          3       45,000      135,000     130,000       32.732
SECONDARY CRUSHERS               REPAIR                  2        22,000      44,000      110,000      17.222
RECONSTRUCTION          4       96,000      144,000     110,000       35.00!
DUAL CRUSHERS                    REPAIR                  6        31,000     186,000      100,000
RECONSTRUCTION          3       63,000      189,000     100,000
CLASSIFIER PLANTS                REPAIR                  3        11,000      99,000
SUBTOTAL                                     228                 3,000,000
_______._..________._.___________._.__._._._.____________________________----_.---------------------_____------_
SECOND PERIOD (1994-1995)
------------------------_-_-_----.-----,_-----------------___---.----_-_-.--___----------_----_-------------_-.-
DUMP-TRUCKS                      REPAIR                130         6,000     780,000      90,000       20.00!
WATER TRUCKS                     REPAIR                  6         7,000      42,000       34,000      20.592
PATCHING UNITS                   REPAIR                  3         7,000      21,000      43,000       16.282
MOTORGRADERS                     REPAIR                 28        15,000     375,000       84,000      17.86!
RECONSTRUCTION         16       27,000      432,000                   92.142
VIBRATING COMPACTORS             REPAIR                  5        10,000      50,000      56,000       17.862
TXRE COMPACTORS                  REPAIR                  2        10,000      20,000      41,000       24.39!
PRIMARY CRUSHERS                 REPAIR                  1        26,000      26,000     130,000       20.002
SECONDARY CRUSHERS               RECONSTRUCTION          1        36,000      36,000     110,000       32.73!
DUAL CRUSHERS                    REPAIR                  5        91,000     155,000      180.000      17.225
RECONSTRUCTION          1       63,000      63,000      180,000       35.00!
-------_---------_-_-------------_----_-_---------------------___-_---------__.----_------_--------------------_
SUBTOTAL                                    198                 2,000,000
-------_-------_---.-_----_-GRA-------_--D-----TOTAL---_--_----__----26________--_--5,000,000----------_--------
GRAND TOTAL                                 426        .5,000,000
_____________________.___________.__.___._________________________.___________.________.________________________



- 126 -
ANNEX 6
TABLE 5
MOPT's goad EouiOment Operational Costs 1US8i
(Deducted from the maintenance Program 1992-1995)
YEAR                1991         1992          1993        1994         1995
ITEMS
Combustibles     9,932,706   10,181,024    9,870,130   9,706,227   9,551,290
Lubricants       2,331.621    2,389,910    2,316,931   2,278,926   2,242,086
Filters            536,504       549,917       533,123     524,660      515,901
Batteries          239,675       245,667       238,166     234,257      230,457
Tires            1,958,886    2,007,858    1,946,545   1,914,615   1,883,665
i           Spare Parts     20,144,194   20,694,097   20,016844   19,688,133  19,371,643
_TOTAL US$      35143,586   36,068,739   34,921,739  34,348,538  33,795,042



- 127 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 8
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
1. Technical Assistance Under Previous Loans.
1.01     Provisions in Loan 2121-CO included the execution of special studies
for: i) continuous upgrading of the National Transporr- Plan including port
development policies, containerization and development of intermodal services
and analyses of freight transport; ii) reviewing trucking regulations and
services, including user charges; and iii) upgrading of road construction
technology and highway administration, including introduction of alternative
construction materials and asphalt emulsion technology, creation of a highway
data bank, and development of road design and evaluation techniques. The
National Transport Plan was submitted in 1984 and updated in 1986. The
studies of Road User Charges and of Transport Regulation and Trade
Facilitation were carried out with major delays and their implementation was
mostly postponed to be carried out under Loan 2829-Co. Of the four studies to
upgrade road technology and highway administration only the one referring to
bituminous emulsions was completed, but its practical application has not been
adequately implemented. The other three studies on slopes stability, use of
alternative road materials and upgrading technical specifications and
guidelines, were to be continued under the follow-up project because
consultant services were deployed too late to allow completion of their
assignments under the project.
1.02     The follow-up Loan 2829-CO was specifically designed to assist the
Government and MOPT in addressing pending issues. A comprehensive action plan
and a technical assistance program were outlined. The scope of this program
covered road transport regulation, investment planning, budget programming and
execution and highway administration. The following table shows a list of the
studies included under the Technical Assistance Program component, their main
objectives and to what degree these objectives have been achieved. Of the ten
studies, two were completed although with some variation from their original
objectives, three are still on-going, and the remaining five were discarded
because other Government agencies carried out similar studies (two cases) or
because of lack of conviction and commitment on the part of MOPT. There are
substantial variances in the success of the different studies carried out,
both in terms of the quality of the documents produced and in the degree of
implementation they achieved.



- 128 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
Studies under the Technical Assistance Program (Loan 2829-CO)V
,................... ................................................ ...............................................................................
STUDIES                             MAIN 0BJECTIVES                              COMMENTS
.. ................................................................................................................
1. Road Transport Regulation.
a. Legal aspects of the Codes of   -Address existing constraints  for        Not carried out. Consultants hired under
Commerce and Transport.           improved equity in road transport       UNCTAD program performed a similar study.
contracts  and insurance coverage,    Aduanas NacionaLes undertook limited mea-
and for intermodal  services  and      sures to faciLitate multimodal transport.
containerization.                      Two committees are working in this fieLd.
b. Truck Domestic Assembly  and    -Review of regulation hampering the    Not carried out. A similar study, carried
Import Policy.                    introduction in Colombia  of more       out by the Ministry  of  DeveLopment, ad-
effcient truck units.                  dressed  domestic  efficiency and protec-
tion related issues.
2. Investment Planning.
Technical Assistance  to re-    -Improve resource allocation.             Delayed due to  MOPT difficulties in en-
view and update the National                                              gaging a consuLting firm. The study will
Transport Plan.                                                           be carried out during 1991-1992.
3. Budget Programming and Execution.
Development & implementation    -Improve monitoring of subprojects        System design on-going (Completion 7/91).
of  computerized  management      portfolio & performance of sector       It comprises five  subsystems: a) a data
information systems.              parastatals.                            bank of projects and on-going contracts;
b) physicaL and financiaL programming of
projects; c) budgeting and monitoring of
projects; d) cost accounting, budget and
externaL resources control; and e) man-
nagerial information.
4. Highwav Administration.
a. Supervision of engineering       -Strenghten MOPT's  capacity  for        Not carried out. MOPT established a task
studies.                          executing end supervising studies;    force to define  new  standards for road
update stt,ndards for road design.     design and guideLines for project prepa-
ration.
b. Materials Sources and Use of    -Update and expand to other regions    Not carried out. However, the  materials
Non-conventional  Materials       the study financed under Loan 1471    sources inventory was updated by students
In Road Works.                    and analyze the availability,  use    of the National University based on data
and possible sources of non-tradi-    collected from MOPT's districts. The new
tional alternative materials.          guidelines for project preparation  will
outline the procedures for detailed mate-
rials sources studies.
c. Slope Analysis.                  -Refine design criteria and  works       Carried out by the National University.
execution standards for road cons-    The  study  evaluated  several  problems
truction and  slope  stability in      located in five main roads and developed
difficult terrain.                     basic computerized programs. A sistematic
inventory of slope stability problems is
still missing.
d. Pavement Analysis.                -Introduce pavement surveying tech-    Contracted with the University of Cauca.
niques to assess pavement behaviour   Due to budget constraints, MOPT reduced
and performance, as an input to a      the scope of the research study  to the
continous follow-up process.           evaluation of road materials properties
using modern laboratory tests; this phase
of the research will be finished in 1991.
e. Technical Specifications.        -Review and update existing technical  A study was carried out In 1986/88 pro-
specifications to bring them in line  ducing new technical specifications, but
with present requirements.             they were rejected by MOPT and local pro-
fessional agencies. MOPT appointed a task
force to review and update them.
f. Maintenance Management.          -Strengthen  Districts' capacity to    Not carried out. MOPT made some  efforts
plan, carry out and supervise road    to improve spare parts management imple-
maintenance work.                      menting computerized inventories in some
districts. It will be expanded under the
proposed project.
... ... ... .... ...... ........... ............ ....................... . ............... ..... ...... ... .... ..... ......... ......
t*) Although Loan 2829-CO provides financial support for all of the st4dies included In the list, Loan funds have
been or will be applied only for the National Transport Plan and the development and implementation of
Computerized Management Information Systems. The other studies have been funded by MOPT.



- 129 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of a
2. The Proposed Proiect'e Technical Assistance component.
A. Background.
2.01         The technical assistance component, and the implementation of its
recommendations, would contribute to remove important bottlenecks to a more
effective sector and subsector management. The program would concentrate on
key issues identified during project preparation, putting special emphasis on
the implementation phase. In this context, the program would include
reviewing some of the studies carried out in the past to upgrade their content
and recommendations whenever necessary and to consistently implement such
recommendations. Consultants would assist and lead task forces designated
within MOPT to produce some of the technical and managerial mechanisms needed
to improve MOPT performance in the fields of road design, maintenance and work
supervision, ensuring both full implementation of the recommendations and on-
the-job training of MOPT's personnel.
B. Descrintion of the Technical Assistance Pro-r
2.02     The Technical Assistance Program aims at: i) developing and
implementing a highway maintenance management system; ii) defining new
standards for pavement structural design and rehabilitation; iii) upgrading
procedures for the supervision of road works; iv) assisting in the
implementation of the computerized management information system developed
under Loan 2829-CO; v) preparing a plan of action to facilitate intermodal
transport. A brief description of the scope of each technical assistance is
presented below, while outlines of the terms of reference for the first three
tasks are shown in Attachments 1 to 3.
2.03     Highway Maintenance Management.  Consultants will develop a
comprehensive highway maintenance management system (including equipment
management) and would assist MOPT in its implementation in both MOPT
headquarters and districts. The technical assistance will focus on: i)
reviewing current maintenance procedures, policies and organizational
capabilities within MOPT's headquarters and districts; ii) upgrading the Road
Maintenance Inventory, organized on the basis of homogeneous road segments;
iii) defining performance criteria and standards for maintenance activities,
adjusted to regional variations; iv) implementing a comprehensive maintenance
management system to effectively plan, schedule, execute and/or control
maintenance works carried out by force account, microempresas and large
contractors, assisted by automatization at both central and district levels;
v) implementing a comprehensive equipment management system, directed at
establishing equipment operating costs, evaluating equipment maintenance
policies and procedures, and managing inventories of spare parts; vi) setting
up cost accounting procedures to support the maintenance and equipment
management systems; vii) implementing reporting procedures, designed to
provide timely, useful and accurate information; viii) establishing an
effective maintenance policy, tailored to the local existing conditions and
constraints; ix) formulating a three-year road maintenance program and



- 130 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
performance budget, coordinated with other highway investments (road
construction and rehabilitation); and x) training MOPT's personnel. The
consultants would establish and make operational the system for road
maintenance by December, 1993.
2.04     Standards for Structural Pavement Desiqn and Road Rehabilitation.  A
short term consultant will guide and review MOPT's task force work in order to
produce a Pavement Catalogue or a comprehensive but practical Pavement Design
Guide, encompassing both new pavement design and rehabilitation of existing
pavements. The consultant's selection will be based on his/her background in
pavement design, evaluation and research, and participation in similar
studies. Consultant services will include: i) establishing a general
framework and methodology for task force work; ii) defining inputs and models
required to characterize and analyze pavements performance in existing local
conditions (traffic, environment, available materials and technologies); iii)
reviewing and upgrading existing procedures to evaluate soils and road
materials in engineering studies; iv) assessing research needs to improve or
validate the design procedures or to promote new technologies; v) upgrading
the terms of reference for pavement design studies; vi) reviewing the final
reports and supporting documents prepared by the task force; and vii)
assisting MOPT in the implementation of the procedures and standards developed
by the technical assistance. A pavement design guide would be completed by
June, 1993.
2.05     Supervision of road works.  Technical assistance services will
provide for the preparation and implementation of upgraded supervision
procedures, work programming and monitoring techniques and cost estimates
manuals. It will be carried out by a specialist in highway construction and
supervision, over a period of 12 months to foster not only the development of
such manuals and procedures but their immediate use in on-going construction
works. The consultant services will include: i) reviewing existing supervision
procedures; ii) assessing and reporting main deficiencies in construction
monitoring and technical supervision through frequent visits to projects under
construction; iii) developing guidelines to improve construction supervision
and project monitoring; iv) developing a comprehensive construction cost
estimate manual, suitable to account for regional (climate, labor market)
variations; v) assisting MOPT's task force in the preparation of the new
technical specifications; vi) assessing training needs among private
supervisors and contractors to ensure a smooth transition to new procedures
and specifications; and vii) providing on-the-job training to MOPT's staff. A
civil works supervision manual would be issued by June, 1993.
2.06     Imolementation of the Computerized Manacement Information System.
The system is being developed by a local consulting firm and will be in place
by mid 1992. Many managerial units will be involved in MOPT and sector
parastatals. Short term intermittent local consultant services would
facilitate and speed up a full use of the systems in specific fields where
their need may arise. Among others, consultant services will include: i)
training MOPT staff in the use of the different sub-systems; ii) solving and
trouble-shooting operating problems; iii) improving the procedures for data



- 131 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 8
collection and data validation; and iv) monitoring a consistent system
implementation through out MOPT and sector parastatals units.
2.07     Intermodal Transport Facilitation.  A full-time international trade
specialist will assist MOPT in preparing a plan of action to facilitate
international transport procedures and regulations, and coordinating all
training activities under the project related to intermodal transport
facilitation. This technical assistance will cover a period of two years.
C. Description of the Studies
2.08     The scope of the four studies included in this component covers: i)
decentralization of the management, construction and maintenance of the
national road network; ii) behavior and performance of road materials and
pavements; iii) road construction industry; and iv) river maintenance. A
brief description of the scope of each study is presented below, while
outlines of the terms of reference for all studies are shown in Attachments 4
to 7.
2.09    Decentralization of the Management. Construction and Maintenance of
the National Road Network. As part of the Government's decentralization
policies, MOPT plans to transfer to the Departments the responsibilities for
road construction and maintenance over a portion of the national road network.
The proposed study aims at defining the optimal size of the national road
network and the appropriate transference mechanisms -including human, physical
and financial resources- to ensure a gradual and smooth implementation during
a transition period of 3 to 5 year, tailored to the absorptive capacity of
each departmental agency. The study will comprise: i) defining the optimal
extent of the national, regional and departmental road networks; ii) designing
a gradual strategy to effectively reassign the functions of road construction
and maintenance at the national, regional and departmental level; iii)
evaluating the absorptive capacity and resource availability among the
Departmeits; iv) establishing the criteria and mechanisms to effectively
transfer human resources, equipment fleets and maintenance facilities from
MOPT to the departmental agencies; v) establishing the criteria and mechanisms
to effectively transfer existing financial resources from the national level
to the departmental level, generate additional financial sources and obtain
external aid at the departmental and regional levels; vi) defining standards
for project planning, budgeting and monitoring results in the public works
sector within the Departments; and vii) proposing an action plan to organize
the transference of responsibilities and resources to the Departments.
2.10     Behavior and Performance of Road Materials and Pavements.  The
proposed study will follow-up the pavement research started in 1984 through an
agreement with the University of Cauca. The three-year program would cover:
i) evaluating road materials behavior using modern laboratory testing
techniques; ii) studying the impact of environmental factors in pavement
design and performance; iii) monitoring pavement performance through periodic
structural and functional evaluation of the existing pavement in selected road



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
sectiona spread around the road network; iv) establishing tentative pavement
deterioration curves for different designs and environments; and v) selecting
experimental sections for trial of non-conventional cost-effective solutions
and validation of the research findings.
2.11     Road Construction Industry.  The proposed study would address
existing constraints in the private road construction industry to enable a
more efficient participation in MOPT's road and maintenance work programs and
delineate an action plan to overcome those constraints. Cyclical variations
of Government's road construction investments in the past, a chronic shortage
of funds to finance on-going civil works, cumbersome procurement and contract
administration procedures, and serious financial restrictions have been
hampering a healthy growth of the industry. The study will analyze these
areas as well as other major aspects such as wages, employment, taxation, use
of technology and training.
2.12     River Maintenance.  Ade.quate maintenance of the Magdalena River is
absolutely essential if the navigation is to be reliable. However,
maintenance has been inadequate in recent years because of poor availability
of the old fleet of dredgers and inefficiencies in operation of the fleet.
The proposed study aims at restructuring the maintenance activities of the
DGNP, looking into the possibility of chartering out MOPT's dredgers to
private operators and submitting a definitive plan for implementing a
satisfactory maintenance program of the Magdalena River.
D. Studies to be carried out through MOPT Task Forces.
2.13     MOPT would carry out through task forces the review and updating of
several important documents related to the preparation of road engineering
studies: i) updated technical specifications for road construction; ii) new
standards for road geometric design; and iii) guidelines for the preparation
of road final engineering studies.  The task force approach would also ensure
full follow through within MOPT on the final recommendations. Consultants
hired under the Technical Assistance Program, study tours abroad financed by
both the proposed loan and Loan 2829-CO, and additional training provided
under the Training Program would assist MOPT task forces in the preparation of
such documents. Orientation seminars will be held in 1992-1993 to teach the
use of these documents to contractors and consultants (see Annex 8).
2.14     Technical Soecifications.  The technical specifications currently in
use were prepared in 1970. The last attempt to upgrade them was carried out
in 1988, using a consulting firm, but the new version was rejected by MOPT and
road-related local private agencies!/. Staffed by five key division chiefs
and other MOPT professionals, the task force would review the 21 most relevant
specifications by june 1992, according to the agreed work schedule, and
1/AICO, Asociacion de Inaenieros Consultores Colombianos, and ACIC, Asociacion
Colombiana de Inaenieros Constructores.



- 133 -
Page 7 of 8
complete the final document by December, 1992. Task force's work schedule
comprises seven phases: i) reviewing of current technical specifications
content and suitability; ii) upgrading task force skills through a study tour
abroad; iii) preparing upgraded technical specifications; iv) reviewing the
preliminary version by MOPT's Council of Works; v) reviewing the preliminary
version by AICO and ACICI vi) issuing the final version; and vii) publishing
and teaching the application of the technical specifications among consultants
and contractors. The work started early in 1991 and the first phase has
already been completed.
2.15     Standards for road ceometric design.  The existing standardsv are
extremely demanding, particularly when defining curve ratios, maximum slopes,
roadway and shoulder widths in mountainous terrain. Consequently, MOPT very
often has to introduce changes in on-going project standards in order to
reduce construction costs. For the same reason, consultants frequently use
their own design standards resulting in inconsistent variations through out
the projects life. The study carried out by consultants in 1988 did not
produce a set of practical standards, but a compilation of local and foreign
criteria. MOPT task force will review these documents and upgrade geometric
standards to be compatible with local conditions by December 1992, according
to the following work schedule: i) upgrading task force skills through
training abroad (to be carried out under Loan 2829-CO); ii) reviewing
available documents and determining geometric design criteria and standards;
iii) discussing proposed standards with AICO and the University of Cauca; iv)
preparing the final document; and v) publishing and teaching the use of the
standards for road geometric design among consultants.
2.16     Guidelines for the oregaration of final engineering studies. MOPT is
working on upgrading terms of reference for the preparation of final
engineering studies, which would prevent variations in the quality and scope
of these studies. The new standards for road geometric design, structural
pavement design and road rehabilitation, as well as the updated technical
specifications, which will be developed under the proposed Project, will form
part of the guidelines. A preliminary version of the document would be
finished by June 1992; the final version would be issued once the new
procedure for pavement design is fully developed, by mid 1993.
3. Cost of the Technical Assistance Component.
3.01     The total cost of the technical assistance component financed by the
proposed Project is estimated at US$2.36 million. The project will finance
100% of expenditures in both foreign and local currency. Detailed costs for
each technical assistance and study are shown in the following table.
Attachments (7)
2/MOPT, Criterio Geometrico Para Diseflo de Carreteras (1970).



- 134 -
,ANNEX 7
Page 8 of a
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
Estimated Costs (in thousand USS)
PERCENTAGE
S U B C OM  P O N E N T S                   ....      FVN    1992   1993     1994      1995     TOTAL
..                         E.................................................. .................. ...... ........
a.      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
f)   Road Maintenance Management                                   100    U      395       415       40         0       850
1i)  Standards for structural Pavement Design and Road
Rehabilitation                                                100    0       60       40         0         0       100
lii) Supervision of Road Construction Works                        100    0       55        25        0         0        80
iv)  Implementation of the Computerized Management Information
System, Financial Planning and other short term assistance  100    0         40       20         0        0         60
v)   Intermodal Transport Facilitation                             100    0        15       25       20         0        60
SUBTOTAL Technical Assistance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        565      525        60        0      1,150
b.      STUDIES
i)   Decentralization of the Management, Construction and
Maintenance of the National Road Network   .  .  .  . .    100    0         505       195        0        0        700
ii)  Behavior and Performance of Road Materials and Pavements    100    0        100       100      100         0       300
HI1) Road Construction Industry                                    100    0        0       80         0        0         80
iv)  River Maintenance                                             100    0      130         0        0         0       130
SUBTOTAL Studes  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .           735      375       100        0      1,210
T 0 T A L    T E C H N I C A L   A S S I S I A N C E    C 0 M P O N E N T   1,300  |  900  1   160  j           0  1 2,360



- 135 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 8
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference-for Technical AssistAnce for MOPT
in Road Maintenance ManageMent
Background
1.       MOPT's maintenance expenditures per km of road are very high (about
US$3,000/km), but operational efficiency remains low because of weak planning,
diversion of maintenance funds to major emergency works and lack of adequate
information and costing systems. In the early 80s, consultants put in place a
management system and assisted MOPT in the creation and operation of a new
maintenance coordinating unit (GAM, Grupo de Anovo Al Mantenimiento) at the
central plant. The system mainly focused on maintenance cost accounting. It
was implemented in four districts under Loan 1471-CO, but MOPT was unable to
expand it to the remaining districts under Loan 2121-CO. A periodic
maintenance program was introduced in 1982 to be executed by contract, but it
partially failed because of inadequate supervision procedures and the
contractors' tendency to carry out only high-unit-cost work items and neglect
others. However, in 1986 MOPT launched a program contracting basic routine
maintenance with labor-absorbing small cooperatives (micrQemogesas) of 12 to
15 workers, each covering about 50 km of road. This innovative initiative
proved to be a cost-effective alternative to the force account operations. By
1990 the microemoresas program included 333 cooperatives covering over 17900
km, about 70 % of the national road network. MOPT also made some efforts to
improve spare parts management by implementing computerized inventories in
some dLstricts. During the preparation of the Third National Roads Sector
Project, MOPT formulated the annual maintenance plan and performance budgets
for 1992-95, based on the actual maintenance needs reported by the districts;
the formulation of such plans proved difficult due to the lack of a well-
established systematic planning procedure. Furthermore, there still is a need
to strengthen other areas such as maintenance control and supervision as well
as the coordination between different units involved in road maintenance at
both the central and district level.
Objectives
2.       The Technical Assistance aims at developing a comprehensive highway
maintenance management system and assisting MOPT in its implementation in MOPT
headquarters and the districts. The technical assistance will strengthen
MOPT's ability to:
a) establish a sound maintenance policy optimizing the use of cost-
effective external entities like Microempresas and larger contractors;



- 136 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment .
Page 2 of 8
b) prepare multi-annual maintenance programs and performance budgets, thus
improving the allocation of funds and resources;
c) schedule, carry out and control the maintenance works within an annual
plan managing maintenance resources efficiently;
d) operate all workshop facilities adequately and maintain MOPT's road
maintenance equipment fleet properly; and,
e) monitor maintenance operational costs and other maintenance related
expenditures, providing the necessary interface with the government
budgetary system.
ScoRe of the Assistance
3.       The consultants hired under this technical assistance will perform
the following main tasks:
a) reviewing current maintenance procedures, policies and organizational
capabilities within MOPT and the districts;
b) upgrading the Road Maintenance Inventory, organized on the basis of
homogeneous road segments;
c) defining performance criteria and standards for maintenance activities,
adjusted to regional variations;
d) implementing a comprehensive maintenance management system to
effectively plan, schedule, execute and/or control maintenance works
carried out by force account, microemoresas and large contractors,
assisted by automatization at both central and district levels;
e) implementing a comprehensive equipment management system, directed to
establishing equipment operating costs, evaluating equipment maintenance
policies and procedures, and managing inventories of spare parts;
f) setting up cost accounting procedures to support the maintenance and
equipment management systems;
g) implementing reporting procedures, designed to provide timely, useful
and accurate information;
h) establishing an effective maintenance policy, tailored to the local
existing conditions and constraints;
i) formulating a three-year road maintenance program and performance
budget, coordinated with other highway investments (construction and
rehabilitation); and,
j) training MOPT's maintenance personnel.
4.       As part of the Government's decentralization policy, MOPT plans to
gradually transfer to the departments the maintenance and construction
responsibilities over a portion of its national road network. Therefore, the
road maintenance and equipment management systems should be developed taking
into account this situation, ensuring they can efficiently handle the changes
that this policy will introduce in the road network and maintenance resources,
and they are suitable for their transference to the departmental agencies.



- 137 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 8
5.       Reviewing current maintenance procedures. policies and organizational
capabilities within MOPT and the districts. The technical assistance will
review the current procedures and policies used by MOPT in order to assess
their efficiency and scope in relation to the whole cycle of maintenance
management: planning; organizing and programming; executing and controlling;
and evaluating maintenance results. By this means, the consultants will point
out deficiencies in both technical and organizational matters, mechanisms to
overcame such deficiencies and sequence in which these mechanisms should be
implemented according to their relevance for the system development.
Accordingly, the technical assistance will define a system development action
plan, which will facilitate assigning counterpart staff to work in the
different areas.
6.       URaradina the Road Maintenance Inventorv.  The technical assistance
will review the scope and consistency of the information available through the
Road Maintenance Inventory as well as the efficiency and reliability of the
data collection procedures, and will search for other related sources of
information existing within MOPT. Taking into account the Road Maintenance
Inventory data, organizational limits, construction data, traffic and
environment, the technical assistance will divide the road network into
homogeneous segments, appropriate for maintenance management purposes; a code
will be assigned to each road segment to facilitate its identification in the
system. After this analysis, the consultants will propose an upgraded system
to collect, handle and analyze all the data needed in order to ensure that the
Road Maintenance Inventory has the capabilities to: i) establish road network
condition and maintenance needs; ii) point out road segments with high
deterioration rates; iii) provide a list of candidate road segments for
rehabilitation works; and iv) provide 'he basic information to appraise the
impact of maintenance policies and programs. In addition, the consultants
will implement, in MOPT central office and in each district, an emergency site
inventory sub-system, linked to the road maintenance inventory and designed to
improve emergency operations efficiency by keeping record of the occurrence of
slope stability related problems (location, magnitude, consequences for road
traffic and measures undertaken to correct and/or prevent their recurrence)
and establishing priorities and cost-effective solutions for site improvement.
The technical assistance will lead MOPT staff in updating the Road Maintenance
Inventory and implementing the new procedures.
7.       Defining performance criteria and standards for maintenance
activities. The technical assistance will revise maintenance activities,
maintenance performance standards, quantity standards and unit costs used by
MOPT to prepare performance budgets. The definition of these elements should
provide a common basis of comparison of program compliance, unit costs,
resource usage, productivity and other management and technical indicators,
taking into account regional variations (climate, remoteness from base
resources) and differences inherent in alternative modes of maintenance (by
microemoresas, force account, contract or combinations of the preceding),
which could impact on productivity, cost, crew size and equipment
requirements. The performance standards will include appropriate performance



- 138 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 8
criteria, providing information on the level-of-service to be provided,
recommended months that the activity is to be performed and how often is
carried out, quality standards for the tasks involved, and scheduling
requirements to coordinate with other work activities. The quantity standards
will take into account road categories and conditions as well as the level-of-
service to be provided according to a selected maintenance policy; as the
latter may change due to budget constrains, the technical assistance will
prepare practical guidelines to match quantity standards and maintenance
levels at the planning phase and to carry out the selected maintenance policy
at the executing phase. The technical assistance will set up guidelines for
unit cost analysis capable of taking into account the above-mentioned factors
and comparing cost-efficiency among the possible alternative modes to carry
out each activity to facilitate decisions on contracting. These guidelines
will also provide for the necessary feedback from the maintenance evaluation
phase on actual costs and performance of the activities carried out within the
program.
8.       Implementing a comprehensive maintenance management system.  The
technical assistance will set up a rational methodology for road maintenance
management, comprising: i) planning multi-annual maintenance plans and
performance annual budgets , classified into routine, periodic and emergency
programs to be carried out by force account, microempresas and large
contractors; ii) organizing and programming maintenance works at the district
level, scheduled in an annual work calendar to match best technical
performance criteria and work load levelling; iii) executing maintenance
activities under the force account program and supervising maintenance works
performed by microemoresas and large contractors; and iv) avaluating
maintenance results, based on the adherence to the annual work plan, annual
budget and maintenance performance standards, and evolution of the network
condition. The system will be implemented at both the central and district
level. Modular automatization will facilitate the data analysis and reporting
required in the different phases of maintenance management at both the central
and district level; consequently, the computerized system will comprise
various sub-systems, involving the creation of several data base files and the
development of programs to manage these files, analyze data and prepare
reports, in a user-friendly-menu-driven software. In order to formulate
multi-annual maintenance plans adjusted to current and future maintenance
needs, the system will make use of analytical models to predict road
deterioration under selected maintenance policies as well as procedures to
coordinate the maintenance programs with other highway investments, such as
road construction and rehabilitation, which could modify the road network
under maintenance during a certain time period. The system will strengthen
the district's ability to develop and monitor weekly or bi-weekly programs
tailored to reflect work priorities, the availability of maintenance resources
(personnel, equipment and materials) and special conditions (urgent or
emergency situations). The consultants will also review and upgrade the
procedures to contract and supervise the maintenance services provided by
either microemgresas or large contractors.



- 139 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment I
Page S of 8
9.       Implementing a comprehensive eauipment management system.  The
technical assistance will collect and analyze the data on the availability and
use of MOPT's equipment fleet and will review the Sub-Directorate of
Equipment's programs and policies on equipment management. After that, the
consultants will put in place a comprehensive equipment management system
capable of evaluating equipment operating costs, equipment preventive
maintenance policies and procedures, and managing stocks and inventories of
spare parts. The system will comprise several sub-systems to allow a modular
or phased implementation, but sharing some data bases to reduce data
collection and reporting from the field. The technical assistance will
implement: i) a computerized equipment master inventory to record changes in
equipment assignments and keep track of equipment unit's history for the
lifetime of each unit; ii) a computerized equipment maintenance and operation
cost sub-system to collect and/or calculate equipment ownership, maintenance,
operation and administrative costs, charge these costs to each unit in the
inventory and generate the analytical reports required by equipment managers
at all levels for the development of equipment maintenance labor standards,
equipment replacement planning, preventive maintenance scheduling and analyses
of equipment maintenance and rehabilitation programs; iii) a computerized
parts and materials inventory sub-system to maintain a file of all parts
stocked in the workshop facilities together with balances on hand in each
facility in order to analyze parts usage, generate stock management
information and process accounting transactions for parts issued, receLpts,
and adjustments; and iv) manual shop work-in-process control procedures, to
control scheduled repairs and inspections, non-scheduled maintenance and
repair backlogs. The consultants will review current MOPT's policies for
equipment acquisition, assignment and disposal, and will recommend the
policies and procedures to be followed in the future.
10.      Settina uo cost accounting orocedures.  The technical assistance will
set up a cost accounting system to support the cost collection and analysis
systems developed for road maintenance and equLpment management purposes. This
system will aim at: i) introducing reliable procedures to monitor MOPT's
payments and expenditures according to work progress; Li) developing and
charging equipment rental rates and reporting actual equipment cost
performance against the planned budgets; and iii) providing the necessary
interface between the existing budgetary system and the maintenance and
equipment management systems to enable the reconciliation of costs and
resource usage.
11.      Implementina reportina procedures.  The technical assistance will
give special attention to the implementation of a reporting sub-system capable
of providing timely, useful and accurate information at the required level.
Work orders and weekly crew work report will indicate not only the type and
amount of work done but also accurately identify the resources used and the
road segment where works were carried out; their design will provide for easy
use in the field. The burden of data reporting will be reduced by limiting
manual data collection to field operations and implementing the computerized
system to generate the management evaluation reports, such as monthly



- 140 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 8
maintenance activities reports, district monthly work progress and cost
summary reports, and monthly/quarterly/annual work progress and cost report.
12.      Establishina an effective maintenance Dolicy.  The consultants will
analyze existing local conditions affecting maintenance planning, such as
resource constraints, in-house and external absorptive capacity, regional
developing plans, traffic levels and road network condition, and will define
alternative policies to carry out road maintenance, representing different
maintenance levels and approaches. By means of an economic and impact
analysis involving network modeling through representative road segments, the
technical assistance will assess the most effective(s) maintenance policy(ies)
for the short and long term, tailored to the local existing conditions and
constraints. The recommended policy(ies), which will guide the formulation of
the future road maintenance programs, will be defined in terms of: policy
goals; budgeting and resource requirements; maintenance of quality standards
on the road network during the implementation period; priorities in work
execution; type and frequency of maintenance works to be performed by force
account, microempresas and larger contractors in representative road segments
within each district. The technical assistance will develop guidelines to
interpret and carry out the policy's recommendations through the maintenance
management process.
13.      Formulatincr a three-year road maintenance Droaram.  The technical
assistance will formulate the road maintenance program and performance budget
for the period 1993-1995, developed along lines set up by the policies and
procedures introduced through the maintenance management system. These
maintenance programs will be prepared considering routine, periodic and
emergency maintenance, starting with the needs of the districts and deriving
the national program as a sum of the programs of the 26 districts. The
programs will seek optimum use of the external maintenance capacity within
each district when defining those components to be carried out either by
microemDresas or large contractors; the consultants will choose the work to be
contracted, prepare bidding documents for the procurement of contractor
services and group these works in lots of attractive size for local
contractors taking account of their equipment and working capital. The
consultants will prepare all the documents needed to support and implement
these programs both at the central level and the districts. They will also
assist MOPT in preparing the appropriate documents for government approval,
providing information on the scope and goals of the proposed maintenance
plans, on the work program impact on the network and on the consequences of
any eventual reduction in the maintenance budget.
14.      Trainina MOPT maintenance personnel.  The consultants will train the
personnel directly involved in maintenance activities. They will provide on-
the-job training to the counterpart personnel assigned by MOPT, making them
effectively participate in all technical assistance activities to ensure full
knowledge of procedures and systems developed during the consultant services.
The technical assistance will prepare and carry out a maintenance training
program for technical and administrative personnel involved in maintenance



- 141 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment I
Page 7 of 8
planning, execution and control in the central office and in the districts, in
order to provide them the necessary skills to operate these systems and to
upgrade current maintenance practices. The technical assistance will study
SDM's personnel needs arising from the maintenance programs prspared for 1993-
1995; target groups will be identified by category and function and the
training program will be adjusted according to the specific needs of these
groups. The consultants will set up a system for the evaluation and control
of the training programs. The consultants will also assess MOPT's policies
and priorities in training and the minimum needs in training specialists; they
will discuss their recommendations with MOPT's training unit, agree on a
training plan for instructors and participate in the technical instruction of
the selected trainers, in order to ensure the continuity of the maintenance
training program once the consultant services are completed.
Staff ing
15.      The technical assistance will be carried out over a period of two
years by the following specialists:
i)   a highway engineer with background in maintenance and equipment
management, maintenance by contract and maintenance planning and
budgeting, who will be the program leader (24 months);
$i) an equipment and workshop specialist, with experience in equipment
management systems (18 months);
iii) a specialist in maintenance cost accounting (9 months);
iv) a computer system analyst (9 months);
V)   an economist with background in the economic evaluation of highway
maintenance and rehabilitation projecta using the HDM-III model (3
months);
vi) a personnel training specialist (12 months).
16.      The technical assistance will need a total of 75 specialist/months.
All staff should be fluent in Spanish.
Executing Agencv and Counterpart Staff
17.      MOPT is reorganizing its maintenance management units.  Currently,
planning and programming functions are performed by GAM (GruDo de Anovo al
Mantenimiento), equipment management by the Sub-directorate of Equipment, and
execution and control by the Districts, all of them dependent of the General
Directorate of Highways. MOPT plans to strengthen its capacity to effectively
coordinate maintenance activities by putting these units together under a new
Directorate or eventually Sub-Directorate of Maintenance, which will then
become the technical assistance executing agency. MOPT will designate a co-
director of the technical assistance, who will coordinate functions between
consultants and MOPT staff, and control the implementation of the road
maintenance management system during the technical assistance and after the



- 142 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 8 of 8
consultant's services are rendered. MOPT will also choose from its permanent
staff at the central office and the districts the counterpart personnel to be
assigned to the technical assistance.
Schedule and Reoorts
18.      The technical assistance will start in 1992.  The consultants will
establish and make operational the system for road maintenance by December,
1993. The consultants will submit the following reports:
a) an initial report presented after 45 days, summarizing the conclusions
and recommendations derived from the review of MOPT's maintenance
management practices and proposing a system development action plan;
b) quarterly reports on work progress, assessing the adherence to the
original implementation plan;
c) manuals and guidelines for the procedures introduced by the technical
assistance, including user manuals for the operation of the computerized
systems, issued according to the syptem development plan; and,
d) a final report, summarizing the work performed and documents prepared by
the technical assistance as well as recommendations and guidelines for
future development and implementation. The consultants will furnish to
MOPT a p :eliminary version of this self-contained report 30 days before
the end of the contract and will issue the revised version, upon MOPT's
approval, by the contract's final date.



- 143 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for MOPT
in Standards gor Structural Pavement Desian and Road Rehabilitation
Backqround
1.       MOPT contracts most of the engineering studies for new roads with
local consultants. Road rehabilitation studies are initially prepared by
MOPT's district engineers, providing a basic estimation of activities and
quantities required; consultants hired for construction supervision review
such estimates and complete the studies. The lack of appropriate standards
for structural pavement design has been one of the factors that hampered
MOPT's capacity to provide sound and consistent pavement designs throughout
the road network in accordance with prevailing conditions, and avoid
successive design changes during project construction. Variations in the
quality of the studies and in the criteria applied by the designers very often
lead to pavement structures that are poorly related to the design parameters
(traffic, materials sources and drainage conditions) and are not cost-
effective. The Sub-Directorate of Projects assigns staff engineers to
supervise the preparation of the engineering studies, but the lack of broadly
accepted design procedures and a list of the items that should be included in
each study, as well as the scope of such items, has made it difficult for the
supervisor to address project deficiencies.
Obiectives
2.       The technical assistance aims at implementing uniform standards for
structural design of new pavements and rehabilitation of existing pavements,
through the development of a Pavement Catalogue or a comprehensive but
practical Pavement Design Guide to be broadly used by consultants and MOPT
technicians in all engineering studies. The standards will improve the
quality of these studies and strengthen MOPT's capacity to:
a) produce cost-effective and consistent pavement designs reflecting
existing local conditions and road management policies;
b) reduce the need for changes in pavement design during the construction
stage; and
c) monitor pavement performance and plan timely road maintenance and
rehabilitation activities.



- 144 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 5
ScoRe of the Assistance
3.       The consultant will guide MOPT's task force and will coordinate on-
going research activities with other agencies involved in pavement research in
the country. The main tasks to be carried out by this consultant will include
the following:
a) establishing a general framework and work methodology to be followed by
the task force;
b) defining the inputs and models required to analyze pavement performance
in existing local conditions;
c) reviewing and upgrading existing procedures to evaluate mechanical
properties of soils and road materials in engineering studies;
d) assessing research needs to improve or validate the design procedures or
tq promote new technologies;
e) upgrading the guidelines for pavement design studies;
f) reviewing supporting documents prepared by the task force and preparing
the final reports; and
g) assisting MOPT in the implementation of the procedures and standards
developed by the task force.
4.      Establishinq a ceneral framework and work methodoloav for the task
force. The consultant will review the criteria and guidelines used by MOPT
engineers and local consultants for the structural design of pavements as well
as the consistency and quality of the final designs, by comparing design
parameters and performance predictions with construction and actual
performance data of typical in-service highways throughout the road network.
This review will cover both the design of new pavements and the rehabilitation
of existing ones and will require field visits to on-going construction
projects as well as in-service roads. In this phase the consultant will also
discuss the different pavement design approaches used by other road
administration agencies, such as standard pavement structures (Pavement
Catalogues), analytical-empirical and mechanistic-empirical methods (including
performance models), analyzing the advantages and disadvantages of each one
taking into account the existing local conditions.  After this analysis the
consultant will: i) recommend the methodology to be used by MOPT; ii) define
additional data needs and the procedures to collect and analyze such data;
iii) coordinate data collection and research efforts to be performed by MOPT
staff according to the agreed design approach.
5.       Defining inDuts and models recuired to analyze Davement performance.
The consultant will define the pavement design parameters and the best
procedures to study them under the selected design approach, taking into
account existing local conditions and laboratory facilities. Subsequently,
the technical assistance will set up comprehensive procedures to: i) evaluate
the damage factors of traffic loads and estimate the future number of axle
load repetitions expected during the pavement design life, using basic
information provided by existing (or upgraded if necessary) traffic counting
procedures; ii) evaluate the seasonal variations in road material properties



- 145 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 5
induced by changes in environmental conditions throughout the year, dividing
the country into regions according to environmental factors which affect
pavement performance and translating climatic and other environmental data
into typical design parameters and specific design requirements for each
region; iii) establish the effective bearing capacity of the subgrade soil,
using existing (or upgraded if necessary) laboratory tests and/or appropriate
correlations with standard tests; iv) typify the mechanical properties of
local materials and mixes such as asphalt concrete and cement concrete mixes,
using existing (or upgraded if necessary) laboratory tests and relating these
test results to the design process; v) assess the strength parameters of the
pavement layers and foundation from non-destructive testing techniques, using
the equipment locally available for pavement evaluation; vi) assess drainage
conditions and techniques to study problems related to the presence of water
in pavement structures; and vii) identify the different alternativ' solutions
available through technologies which have proved to be cost-effective and also
feasible to implement. In order to develop the standards for structural
pavement design, the consultant will implement the analytical and mechanistic
models needed to analyze the behavior and performance of pavement structures
under typical situations, training MOPT task force in the use of such
analytical tools. Different methodologies will be outlined for flexible,
rigid and semi-rigid pavements as well as for the design of new pavements and
the rehabilitation of existing ones.
6.       Uqarading existine procedures to evaluate mechanical Prooerties of
soils and road materials in enaineerino studies. The technical assistance
will compare design and performance data from existing pavement structures
with the recommendations derived from the application of the accepted methods
for pavement design to similar conditions. During this developing phase, the
assessment of soil mechanical properties will be based on the most rational
testing techniques, like the resilient modulus or others, depending on the
availability within the country of the appropriate testing device for research
purposes. However, for standards implementation, the technical assistance
will upgrade the existing soil and road materials evaluation procedures
introducing better field sampling and laboratory practices, but still
supported by testing equipment currently available in local laboratories. The
consultant will recommend on best practices for both pavement design and
construction regarding the treatment of special soil conditions, such as
volcanic and collapsible soils found in the Cordillera Central, and laterite
and expansive soils.
7.       Assessino research needs.  The consultant will identify the  priority
research needs in the fields of pavement design and rehabilitation to improve
or validate the design procedures and to promote the use of new technologies.
The technical assistance will delineate an action plan to carry out those
research activities required in the short run to develop the standards. The
consultant will assist MOPT and other agencies eventually involved in such
activities by providing the necessary guidance.



- 146 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 5
8.       Unoradina the uuidelines for pavement desictn studieL.   The consultant
will upgrade the guidelines for pavement design used by MOPT engineers and
local consultants in the preparation of engineering studies, taking into
account the changes in pavement design procedures and improved practices
developed. These guidelines will vary according to the purpose of the study,
such as the design of a new facility or the rehabilitation of an existing one,
but in any case will clearly point out the scope of the tasks to be carried
out by the designer, expressed in quantitative terms wherever applicable, in
order to ensure a uniform level of qualityl thus, instructions will establish
the standard frequencies of exploring pits for both subgrade and materials
sources investigation, laboratory tests, pavement deflections, etc., adjusted
to typical existing conditions and project types. Special attention will be
given to the study of materials sources for road construction, establishing a
comprehensive methodology capable of providing reliable information on
materials availability, quality and specific use In the project. The
gu'.delines will outline the plans, testing forms and other technical reports
required to support a design study.
9.       Reviewina supoorting documents Drepared by the task force and
Dregarina the final reoorts.  The consultant will review the reports prepared
by MOPT's task force and other local agencies participating in pavement
research activities coordinated with this technical assistance. The
consultant will prepare the documents needed to implement and support the
standards developed, including, among others, a comprehensive manual for
structural pavement design and road rehabilitation, the Pavement Catalogue if
applicable, appropriate guidelines for engineering studies and training
materials for the delivery of training courses and seminars. The documents
will also provide cost-effective designs for low volume roads, which will
ensure the best use of local materials and low cost solutions.
10.      Assistina MOPT In the implementation of the orocedures and standards
develoged by the technical assistance. The consultant will train MOPT's task
force, providing the necessary skills to analyze and interpret the data
collected and operate the models introduced through this technical assistance.
The consultant will also assist MOPT in the implementation of the standards
developed by the task force through courses and seminars directed at both MOPT
technicians and local consultants.
Staffing
11.      The technical assistance will be carried out by a consultant spending
a total of 6 man/months, through short intermittent visits over a period of 18
months. The consultant will be selected taking into account his/her
background in pavement design, evaluation and research, developed in countries
with conditions similar to those prevailing in Colombia, his/her experience in
the treatment of the special soil conditions mentioned in para.6, and his/her
participation in similar studies. The consultant should be fluent in Spanish.



- 147 -
ANNEX _7
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 5
Executing Agencv and Counterpart Staff
12.      The Technical Secretariat (TS) will be the executing agency of this
technical assistance. MOPT has designated a task force staffed by key
personnel from the Sub-Directorate of Projects, working at both MOPT's central
office and laboratory. This task force will have a leading role in developing
the new procedures and standards to be introduced by the technical assistance.
TS will designate from its staff a supervisor of the technical assistance and
appoint additional counterpart personnel as needed to perform the required
tasks.
Schedule and Reports
13.      The technical assistance will start in l9_..  The consultant will
submit the following reports:
a) an initial report issued by the end of the first month, setting up the
general framework and methodology for the task force and the proposed
action plan;
b) periodic reports on work progress issued by the end of each visit,
evaluating the tasks performed during the foregoing period and providing
the necessary guidelines for the following period; and
c) a final report, summarizing the work performed and documents prepared by
the technical assistance, including the Pavement Catalogue or the design
guides, as well as recommendations and guidelines for future actions.
The consultant will furnish to MOPT a preliminary version of this self-
contained report at the end of the last assignment, and will send the
revised version, incorporating MOPT's comments, within 30 days after
receiving them from MOPT. The pavement design guide should be completed
before June 30, 1993.



- 148 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for MOPT
in the Suoervision of Road Construction Works
Backaround
1.       The supervision of road construction works in Colombia is mainly
performed by local consultants and MOPT's district engineers are assigned to
monitor the contracts for both construction and work supervision.
Construction practices are very often affected by the difficult topographical
conditions. However, there are several areas where supervision can be
improved. Frequent deficiencies in the engineering studies have contributed
in the past to shifting supervisor's attention from quality control activities
to the design of missing project components, contract administration and work
re-scheduling to match it to budget allocations. The Guidelines for
Supervisors (Directrices para Interventores), a guideline of supervision
activities, lacks particulars on quality assurance. In addition, some
technical specifications are outdated and others do not define with enough
detail the quality standards for work approval, giving more room to
misinterpretation during construction. In spite of several positive measures
introduced by MOPT, supervision costs are still too high in relation to
project costs and need to be reduced.
Qbiectives
2.       The Technical Assistance aims at strengthening MOPT's technical
capabilities tc more effectively program and supervise road construction works
carried out by contractors and supervision tasks performed by consultants or
MOPT engineers. The objectives of the technical assistance are:
a) to address the main constraints preventing the supervisors from assuming
a more effective role in the supervision of construction works;
b) to enhance the quality of construction work and the cost-effectiveness
of supervision activities; and
c) to improve the allocation of funds and resources to work construction,
through more efficient project schedulinq and monitoring practices;
Scone of the Assistance
3.       The consultant will perform the following main tasks:
a) assessing and reporting main deficiencies in construction monitoring and
technical supervision;
b) reviewing the existing supervision procedures;



- 149 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment_3
Page 2 of 4
c) developing guidelines to improve construction supervision and project
monitoring;
d) developing a comprehensive construction cost estimate manual;
e) assisting MOPT's task force in the preparation of the new technical
specifications;
f) assessing training needs among private supervisors and contractors to
ensure a smooth transition to new procedures and specifications; and
g) providing on-the-job training to MOPT's staff.
4.       Assessing and reporting main deficiencies in construction, monitorinq
and technical supervision. The consultant will visit several projects under
construction. During these visits the consultant will analyze: i) contractors
performance and compliance with the technical specifications; ii) supervision
facilities, organization and personnel skills, with special attention to the
supervisor's capacity to carry ous and interpret field and laboratory tests;
iii) timeliness and reliability of the quality control activities performed by
the supervisor; iv) criteria for work scheduling; and v) suitability of work
reporting procedures. In each visit, the consultant will prepare a guideline
addressing the deficiencies observed. The consultant will also report to the
sub-directorate of supervision on the main findings resulted from each visit;
these short back-to-office -reports will help the technical assistance to
develop upgraded procedures, tailored to actual conditions and needs.
5.       Reviewing existina supervision procedures.  The consultant will
review MOPT supervision procedures, including the Guidelines for Supervisors,
typical monthly supervision reports, contract monitoring practices and data
needed by MOPT's budget monitoring computerized system. After this review,
and taking into account the experience gained through the field visits, the
consultant will: i) address the main constraints preventing the local
supervisors from assuming a more effective role in the supervision of
construction works; ii) identify the measures to upgrade MOPT supervision
practices; and iii) prepare an action plan to implement such measures.
6.       Develonina cuidelines to improve construction supervision and oroiect
monitorina. The technical assistance will upgrade the Guidelines for
Supervisors, introducing improved practices in the fields of: composition of
supervision teams, job descriptions and personnel skills; work organization
and basic facilities; programming of construction work and supervision
activities; quality control; work progress reporting; contract administration
and accountability in the decision raking process. Such practices will aim at
improving the quality of construction work and the cost-effectiveness of
supervision activities, particularly in projects with lengthy construction
time. The monthly supervision reports will be upgraded to include more
relevant information in order to assess work progress and quality, and
expedite project monitoring. The terms of reference for contracting
supervision services will also be updated, according to the changes introduced
in the supervision practices. The consultant will also assist MOPT in
upgrading its project monitoring capabilities, implementing a computerized
system to: i) store and manage relevant data on work progress, project



- 150 -
ANNEX 7
AttachMent 3
Page 3 of 4
expenditures, budget allocations, contract modifications and contractors
performance; ii) analyze the data and generate the necessary reports for
management decisions; and iii) provide the interface with MOPT's budget
programming system and the National Bank of Investment Projects.
7.       pevelooing a comRrehensive construction cost estimate manual.  The
consultant will review the procedures used by MOPT and local consultants to
estimate construction costs and cost escalation. The technical assistance
will analyze the data on productivity and cost of construction activities
obtained from the periodic visits to on-going projects, and will identify the
local factors affecting contractors performance. Based on these analyses, the
technical assistance will produce a comprehensive manual for estimating unit
costs in road construction, suitable to account for variable regional
conditions, such as topography, climate and labor market, that may affect work
productivity and resources' cost. The consultant will assist MOPT to develop
and implement a computerized system to calculate hourly costs of most common
road construction equipment, unit cost of typical construction activities and
cost escalation formulas due to inflation.
S.       Assisting MOPT's task force in the Preparation of new technical
specifications. The consultant will review the work prepared by MOPT's task
force in charge of upgrading the documents on technical specifications. The
consultant will keep close contact with this task force in order to provide
feedback on the suitability of such documents according to the experience
gained during the field visits, and to develop supervision procedures
consistent with the requirements set forth in the technical specifications.
9.       Assessina trainina needs among Private supervisors and contractors.
Based on the main findings of the field visits, the consultant will assess the
training needs among supervisors and contractors and will prepare a training
program to address such needs and to ensure a smooth transition to the new
procedures and specifications introduced by the technical assistance. These
training program will include specific actions for the different target groups
involved in supervision activities, such as engineers, road inspectors and
laboratory technicians. The consultant will assist MOPT's training unit to
deliver the orientation seminars and training courses included in the program.
10.      Providina on-the-lob trainina to MOPT's staff.  MOPT's counterpart
personnel will actively participate in all the technical assistance activities
in order to ensure full knowledge of the procedures and practices developed
during the consultant services and thus, facilitate full implementation
afterwards. The consultant will provide on-the-job training in skilled
supervision activities through well-timed field visits to on-going
construction works, scheduled at different phases of construction progress.
MOPT's district supervisors will also participate in such visits.



- 151 -
ANNEX, 7
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 4
Staffing
11.      The technical assistance will be carried out by a consultant over a
period of 12 months. The consultant will be selected on the basis of his/her
background in construction supervision, laboratory testing, construction cost
estimating and work programming assisted by computerized systems. The
consultant should be fluent in Spanish.
Executina Agency and Counterpart Staff
12.      The Technical Secretariat (TS) will be the technical assistance
executing agency. TS will choose from the Sub-Directorate of Supervision
(SDS) at the central office and the districts the counterpart personnel to be
assigned to the technical assistance. Staff engineers from the Sub-
Directorate of Projects (SDP) will also participate as counterpart personnel
in those tasks related to work cost estimation. MOPT has designated a task
force staffed by key personnel from SDP and SDS to update the technical
specifications for road construction; the group began its work in 1991.
Schedule and Reports
13.      The technical assistance will start in 1992. The consultant will
submit the following reports:
a) an initial report presented after 60 days, summarizing the conclusions
and recommendations derived from the review of MOPT's supervision
practices and proposing an action plan to implement the upgraded
practices;
b) quarterly reports on work progress, summarizing the tasks performed
during the period and updating the implementation plan according to
needs and priorities;
c) manuals and guidelines for the procedures introduced by the technical
assistance, including a civil works supervision manual to be issued
before June 30, 1993; and
d) a final report, summarizing the work performed and documents prepared by
the technical assistance. The consultant will furnish to MOPT a
preliminary version of this self-contained report 30 days before the end
of the contract and will issue the revised version, upon MOPT's
approval, by the contract's final date.



- 152 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
Third National Roads Sector Project
Outline of Terms of Reference for the
Study for the Decentralization of Manaaement of National Road Network
Background
1.          The Government has embarked on a series of reforms designed to
modernize transportation operations through effective integration of all modes
of transport, adjustment of the institutional framework and efficient
utilization of resources. The Study for the Restructuring of the Public Works
and Transportation Sector, currently in preparation under the supervision of
the DNP, provides a framework for the restructuring of the management,
planning, coordination and control functions in the transportation sector, and
the reorganization of execution of public works on a nationwide basis. This
is to be complemented by the redistribution of responsibilities for the
construction and maintenance of transportation infrastructure among the
national government, the Departments and the municipalities, according to the
principle of decentralization endorsed by the Government and the new
Constitution. The proposed study responds to the need to transfer to the
Departments part of the national road network and corresponding financial
resources managed by the Ministry of Public Works (MOPT), and carrying out
this decentralization process as efficiently as possible.
Objectives
2.          The basic aim of the study is to plan and design the process of
decentralizing the nationwide transportation infrastructure and define the
responsibility for the construction and maintenance functions, in line with
the Government's decentralization policies and the new constitutional
framework.  The specific objectives of the study are:
(a)   to determine what portion of the national highways network and the
associated physical, human and financial resources should be
transferred by the MOPT to the Departments;
(b)   to establish the necessary machinery to ensure that this transfer
proceeds smoothly over a transition period initially estimated at
three to five years, and that, once it has taken place, the
Departments can attain the desired level of efficiency.



- 153 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 5
Scoge of the studv
3.          The principal tasks to be performed by the consultants are the
following:
(a)   determine the optimum size of the national highways network, under
the jurisdiction of the MOPT, and the regional and departmental
road networks, under the jurisdiction of the Departments;
(b)   design a strategy for the phased redistribution of functions at
the national, regional and departmental levels for the
construction and maintenance of transportation infrastructure;
(C)   analyze the institutional capacity and resource availability in
the various Departments to perform the public works functions to
be assigned to them in the context of the decentralization
process;
(d)   establish criteria and proctdures for the transfer of human
resources (labor force) and physical resources (maintenance,
equipment and facilities) from the MOPT to the departmental
agencies;
(e)   establish criteria and procedures for the transfer of available
financial resources (tolls, taxes on gasoline and other charges)
from the central government to the departmental agencies, and for
mobilizing resources and obtaining loans at departmental and/or
regional level;
(f)   prepare guidelines for planning, budgeting and monitoring projects
in the public works and transportation sector in the Departments,
appropriately coordinated through the national and regional
organizations, and in accordance with the legal framework to be
established under the decentralization process; and
(g)   propose an Action Plan to govern the transfer of responsibilities
and resources to the Departments, establishing qualitative and
quantitative controls to determine the progress of this process
during the transition period.
4.          Determine the ootimum size of the national. recional and
DeDartmental road networks. The consultants will analyze the operational
(traffic) and functional characteristics of the highways forming the present
national road network (about 25,000 km) and the changes that can be expected
in the medium term as a result of the plans for economic liberalization
prepared by the Government, the location of production centers, expected
international traffic flows, etc. On the basis of this analysis, the
consultants will make proposals regarding: (i) the optimum size of the
principal trunk road network that should remain under national control,
specifying the highways concerned and the principal criteria for identifying



- 154 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 4
Page 3 of 5
them; (ii) the list of roads recommended for transfer to the Departments,
indicating the current status of these roads (condition, resources to be
committed, works planned, etc.). In addition, the consultants will collect
information on the departmental road networks, and investment and maintenance
needs of the current departmental networks, and identify those roads that
require regional coordination.
5.          Desian a phased strategy for effective redistribution of oublic
works functions at the national. recional and Departmental level. The
consultants will formulate the criteria for distribution of the transportation
infrastructure construction and maintenance functions. To this end, the
consultants will analyze: (i) the legal framework and the roles to be
assigned to each level under the new regulations; (ii) current legislation and
the organizational structure of the responsible departmental agencies and
their links with other regional organizations; (iii) the policies required for
managing the downsizing and transfer of personnel and other resources in order
to minimize economic dislocations; and (iv) the desirability of employing
uniform criteria and standards for the design and execution of construction
and maintenance operations. In light of this analysis, the consultants will
design a strategy for the efficient, gradual decentralization, over a
transition period of three to five years, of the above-mentioned functions and
the transfer of roads and the associated human, physical and financial
resources from the central level to the departmental agencies.
6.          Analyze the departmental agencies' institutional canacitv.
resource availability and absorptive capacitv.  The consultants will prepare,
for all the Departments, an analysis of institutional capacity and the human,
physical (premises, maintenance, equipment, etc.), financial and
administrative resources available for performing their road construction and
maintenance, taking into account their expanded responsibilities under the
decentralization process. On the basis of this analysis, the consultants will
evaluate the departmental agencies' capacity to absorb new resources and will
identify the human, financial and administrative resources required to
strengthen their management capacity, proposing appropriate measures as
needed.
7.          Establish criteria and Procedures for the transfer of human and
ohvsical resources from the MOPT to the departmental agencies.  The
consultants will analyze the changes that will gradually occur in the MOPT's
operational needs during the decentralization process and will make
recommendations regarding the profile and size of the personnel structure and
the most suitable operating modalities for the new administrative structure.
In light of this study, and of the conclusions of the analysis on the future
needs and administrative capacity of the departmental agencies, the
consultants will identify the most appropriate mechanism to transfer the human
(labor force) and physical (maintenance, equipment and facilities) resources
from the MOPT to each of the departmental agencies.
8.          Establish criteria and orocedures for the transfer of available
financial resources and for mobilizing resources and obtainino loans at the



- 155 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 4
Page 4 of 5
departmental (reqional) level. The consultants will analyze possible methods
of financing public works on the regional and departmental level through
transfers of national funds using various options, such as the establishment
of Regional Funds, cofinancing of roadworks, and other measures. Likewise,
the consultants will study the various sources of national funds to which the
regions and Departments might be given access, under the principle of limited
financial autonomy. This task will include a study on the current receipts of
the transportation sector by source of funds, to permit analysis of the
recommended changes in the legal arrangements. The consultants will also
review regulations regarding the levying and payment of tolls at various
levels in order to bring them into line with the new institutional framework.
In addition, the consultants will study the procedures for mobilizing
resources and expanding the use of credit at departmental and regional levels,
including the use of FINDETER.
9.          Prepare cuidelines for ilannino. budoetino and monitoring nroiectu
in the public works and transportation sector in the Departments and
monitorino their results. This activity will be designed to establish:
(i) mechanisms for coordination among the various decision making levels, from
the Planning Commission to the municipal planning offices; (ii) the
performance and management checks that will enable projects at the
departmental level to be efficiently maintained and their results monitored
The consultants will use tools already established by the National Planning
Department, with the support of the CORPES, such as the national Projects
Bank, identifying the guidelines and procedures required to collect
information and ensure an adequate flow of data from the local level to the
national authorities.
10.         Pronose an Action Plan to covern the transfer of resionsibilities
to the Delartments. The consultants will prepare a detailed Action Plan to
govern the transfer of responsibilities to the Departments, which will define
the objectives to be achieved, the instruments and actions required, the
entities responsible in each case and the timing of the implementation of each
phase. The consultants will take into account the particular capacity of each
Department and the phased approach needed to ensure an efficient transfer of
functions; therefore, the Action Plan will set out a timetable for integrating
each Department into the new system and the optimum schedule for the transfer
of functions to each Department during the transition period.
Staffing
11.         The study will be carried out over a period of 18 months by a team
of local experts containing the following key personnel:
Expert                                                    Man/mont4s
(i)      A transportation expert, who will be the project manager         18
(ii)      Two financial experts with experience in the
transportation sector                                            24
(iii)      A lawyer with experience in public administration



- 156 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 4
Page 5 of 5
aiid contracts                                                   12
(iv)      Three public administrators with experience in
institutional analysis                                           18
(v)      Three civil engineers with experience in the
transportation sector                                            36
(vi)      Three engineers with experience in road maintenance
and management of maintenance teams                              18
126
Executing aaencv
12.         The Planning Office of the MOPT will be responsible for
supervising the study and implementing its recommendations. In addition, a
committee will be established, consisting of high-level officials from this
Planning Office and the Transportation Division of the National Planning
Department (DNP), and including the project manager, which will take technical
decisions and supervise the progress of the study. The consultants will
receive support from MOPT officials, the DNP, the Departmental Secretariats of
Public Works, the Regional Councils for Economic and Social Planning (CORPES)
and other government agencies.
Schedule and reports
13.         The study will start at the beginning of 1992.  The consultants
will provide the following reports:
(a)   an initial report, to be submitted within 90 days, summarizing the
recommendations for the transfer of part of the highway network
and the design of the phased strategy to guide the
decentralization process;
(b)   an interim report, to be submitted after 12 months, containing the
analysis of the technical and administrative institutional
capacity of the departmental agencies, along with recommendations
for procedures for transferring physical and financial resources;
(c)   quarterly progress reports, summarizing the work performed during
the period and describing issues requiring decisions by the MOPT;
and
(d)   a final report, summarizing the conclusions and recommendations of
the study and the proposed Action Plan for organizing the transfer
of responsibilities to the departmental agencies. The consultants
will present a preliminary version of this report to the MOPT 30
days before expiration of the contract and will submit the revised
version, once approved by the MOPT, by the contract termination
date.



- 157 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
outline of Terms of Reference for the Research Study of
the Behavior and Performance of Road Materials and Pavemento
Backoround
1.       MOPT started in 1984 a pavement research program directed at studying
the main local factors affecting pavement performance, particularly the effect
of Colombian road traffic conditions. The first phase of this research was
carried out through a one-year agreement with the University of Cauca.  It
selected 17 pavement sections from the road network; located throughout the
country, these test sections were representative of different pavement
structures, traffic and environmental conditions. Pavement evaluation studies
were conducted on such sections, including distress surveys, pavement
materials sampling and testing, Benkelman Beam deflections and traffic loads
weighing. Among other findings, the study led to defining truck factors which
are still in use for pavement design. In 1990, MOPT requested to the same
agency a second-phase program to follow up the research activities; the
resulting one-year program contributed to setting up modern testing devices
purchased by the University of Cauca and introducing some laboratory tests to
assess the basic properties of locally produced asphalt materials, in
coordination with ECOPETROL (Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo). The recently
set-up dynamic triaxial device is capable of measuring resilient and dynamic
modulus of road materials, which are related to basic performance criteria,
such as fatigue and deformation, and thus used by modern pavement design
methods. The proposed third phase of the pavement research program will apply
these methodologies to test actual and typical road materials obtained from
the existing pavement sections, and will study pavement performance through
periodical evaluations of those pavement sections. It will provide valuable
data to validate MOPT's standards for structural pavement design.
Obiectives
2.       The Study aims at upgrading the current knowledge on the behavior and
performance of road materials and pavements, through a better understanding of
the local conditions affecting pavement performance and a delineation of the
pavement deterioration patterns observed in typical pavements. The
implementation of the research findings will strengthen MOPT's capacity to
provide pavement designs tailored to local conditions, to schedule timely
maintenance and rehabilitation activities and to introduce more reliable
pavement technologies. The specific objectives of the study are:
a) to more effectively typify the behavior of road materials by using
modern laboratory testing techniques, and the effect of climatic



- 158 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 5
Page 2 of 4
variables on pavement behavior by measuring environmental working
conditions prevailing in Colombian pavements;
b) to establish the deterioration patterns of standard pavement structures
under the typical service conditions observed in different regions of
the country and adjust performance models to predict such patterns; and
c) to organize additional research activities to validate the application
of conventional and non-conventional cost-effective solutions to improve
pavement performance.
Scope of the Study
3.       The research agency will review the data reported from the previous
research studies carried out in the country. The new research study will
comprise field tasks, mostly carried out in the 17 pavement test sections
identified in 1984, laboratory testing and analytical investigations, all of
them performed in close coordination with MOPT. The study will cover the
following five areas:
a) evaluating road materials behavior using modern laboratory testing
techniques;
b) studying the impact of environmental factors in pavement design and
performance;
c) monitoring pavement performance through periodic structural and
functional evaluation of the existing pavements in selected road
sections spread around the road network;
d) establishing tentative pavement deterioration curves for different
designs and environments; and
e) selecting experimental sections for trial of non-conventional cost-
effective solutions and validation of the research findings;
4.       Evaluatina road materials behavior usina modern laboratory testina
techniques. This phase will use the dynamic triaxial device which became
available through the previous research study, to analyze the properties of
typical road materials and to develop appropriate correlations with the
standard testing procedures traditionally used in Colombia. The study will
test materials samples obtained from the pavement test sections. In addition
to standard testing practices, the program will include: i) measuring dynamic
modulus of typical asphalt concrete mixes and establish fatigue performance
criteria; ii) measuring resilient modulus of subgrade soils and establish
permanent deformation criteria; and iii) analyzing the rheologic performance,
aging susceptibility of Colombian asphalt.
5.       Studvinc the imoact of environmental factors in pavement desian and
performance. The research study will analyze the effect of climate variables
on the behavior of selected pavement sections. Climatic data related to these
sections will be collected from the Colombian Institute of Meteorology and
compared to in-situ measurements of actual temperatures in asphalt layers,
water contents in unbound base and subbase courses, and equilibrium humidities



- 159 -
ANNEX 7
Attaohment E
Page 3 of 4
of subgrade soils. The atudy will identify the climatic variables showing
better correlation with pavement performance and will produce a climatic model
to infer such variables for every region of the country.
6.       Monitorina pavement performance throuah neriodic structural and
functional evaluation of the existina navements in selected road sections.
The study will follow up the performance evaluation of the selected pavement
sections begun in 1984. These sections, scattered throughout the different
regions of the country, will provide the field information to support the
research. The field work program will comprise: i) measuring pavement
deflections with Benkelman Beams and MOPT's Lacroix, and pavement roughness
with MOPT's APL; ii) surveying pavement distress; iii) measuring in-situ
properties of pavement layers; iv) sampling pavement materials to perform
laboratory testing; v) counting traffic volumes and weighing traffic loads;
and vi) collecting additional data needed to analyze pavement performanca
using available mechanistic-empiric performance models.
7.       Establishing tentative pavement deterioration curves for different
desians and environments. The research agency will analyze the data on
pavement performance reported by the periodical evaluation of the selected
pavement sections to establish deterioration curves related to typical
pavement structures and traffic and environmental conditions. These data will
be compared to pavement condition indicators predicted through the application
of the HDM-II and other well-known performance models to analyze the degree
of fitness of such models and to recommend the adjusting factors to more
closely reproduce local conditions.
S.       Selectina experimental sections for trial of non-conventional cost-
effective solutions and validation of research findings. Based on the
conclusions derived from the study, the research agency will propose non-
conventional cost-effective solutions to improve pavement performance. In
this context, it will select experimental sections for trial of such solutions
and outline the work program to be carried out, i._luding the tasks needed to
monitor their performance. The research agency will also assist MOPT in the
implementation of these trial sections, supervising the research work and
providing the necessary guidance to interpret the results.
Staffina
9.       The study will be carried out over a period of 36 months by a local
research agency. The selection of the research agency will be based on its
background on pavement research, availability of laboratory facilities and
specialized equipment, background of the proposed key personnel and experience
in similar studies. The key professional staff estimated for the study are:
i)   a pavement research specialist experienced in pavement rehabilitation,
laboratory testing, statistical analysis and research, who will be the
project leader (36 months);



- 160 -
ANNEX7
Attachment 5
Page 4 of 4
ii) a laboratory engineer specialized in road materials testing using modern
techniques (24 months);
iii) a pavement engineer experienced in pavement evaluation and data analysis
(24 months); and
iv) two high-skilled laboratory technicians experienced in routine
laboratory testing for soils, aggregates and asphalt materials, and
dosage and control of asphalt mixes (30 months).
Executing Aaency and Counterpart Staff
10.      The Technical Secretariat (TS) will supervise the study and will
implement its recommendations. TS will assign a coordinator to follow up work
progress and coordinate the research activities with the tasks being carried
out under the technical assistance in standards for structural pavement design
and road rehabilitation. MOPT will directly participate in monitoring
pavement performance by operating its Lacroix Deflectograph and APL inertial
profilometer. Special testing devices purchased for the study with Project
funds will be returned to MOPT's laboratory afterwards. In order to keep
operating the deflectograph and the inertial profilometer during the research
activities, the study will also finance the acquisition of the spare parts and
the cost of the repairs needed by such pieces of equipment.
Schedule and ReDorts
11.      The study will start in 1992, submitting the following reports:
a) quarterly reports on work progress, summarizing the tasks performed
during the period and assessing the adherence to the work program; and
b) a final report, summarizing the main findings and recommendations for
immediate application. The data collected by the study will be published
for future use. The research agency will furnish to MOPT a preliminary
version of this self-contained report 30 days before the end of the
contract and will issue the revised version, approved by MOPT, by the
contract's final date.



- 161 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment_
Page 1 of 7
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for a Study of the Road Construction Industry
Backaround
1.       The road construction industry has faced many difficulties in its
development path, despite the fact that it grew rapidly and now accounts for 3
percent of the GDP. The industry depends heavily on the Government's public
investment and availability of financing in reasonable terms. Other important
factors include availability of suitable insurance facilities, proper
legislation for contract administration and facilities to disseminate new
technologies.
Obiectives
2.       The objective of this study is to identify the main constraints and
obstacles preventing the domestic construction industry of Colombia from
assuming a more effective role in the country's construction and maintenance
programs and to develop appropriate detailed plans of action to overcome those
constraints.
3.       The work process should be to undertake a brief but balanced and
careful overview, and then to focus on the main issues on which action is
needed. Most of the effort of the study will, thus, be devoted to identifying
and considering alternative, viable solutions to the problems and to working
up action plans for their implementation.
4.       To ensure full commitment of the government and of the industry to
the execution of the strategy and action plans, they should be developed in
close collaboration with the Ministry of Public Works and Transports (MOPT),
acting liaison agency for the study team, and with the construction industry's
representatives and professional associations.
Scone of the Study
5.       The study of the construction industry in Colombia, and the
formulation of a strategy and action plans will be based on a careful
consideration of the following subjects: i) structure of the Industry; ii)
demand; iii) procurement and contract administration; iv) choice of
technology; v) the Industry's capacity; vi) financing; vii) legal aspects; and
viii) institutional aspects.
6.       Structure of the Industry



- 162 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 7
(a)  Historical development of the industry including emergence of
entrepreneurs and ownership characteristics of construction
enterprises.
(b) Participation of the industry in the economy of the country
including contribution to employment, backward and forward
linkages, particularly with the construction materials industry,
and compvarison with developed countries and with countries at a
similar stage of development.
(c) Participation of the main sectors of the industry in the
satisfaction of the overall demand for construction and
maintenance services; historical participation, and future
trends.
(d) Experience with joint ventures and domestic sub-contractors of
foreign firms.
7.       PSrAd
(a)  Overall demand:  historical series, fluctuation of annual growth
rates relative to the manufacturing industry and GDP and
identification of trends.
(b) Implications of the new program for decentralization of the
transport sector on the future demand for construction services
at both national and regional levels.
(c) Forecast future demand, identifying, in particular:
(i) Recurring demand for construction and maintenancs services
which can potentially be supplied by the domestic private
sector;
(ii) Recurring demand for construction and maintenance services
which would preferably be catered for by force account
operation.; and
(iii) Demand for larger construction works which can be handled by
domestic enterprises, either by slicing and packaging or by
providing those enterprises with technical and financial
assistance.
B 8.     Progugement and Contract Administration
(a) Procedures for procurement in the public and private sectors;
regulations for bidding and negotiating construction and
maintenance work; existence and adequacy of contractor's



- 163 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 6
Page 3 of 7
registry; time delays and difficulties encountered in the post-
bid process, up to the start of work.
(b) Contract forms and contracting practice; fairness of contract
provisions, particularly in the apportionment of risk between
client and contractor; compensation to the contractor for
default by the client (for example interest payable for late
progress payments, or compensation for delays induced by the
client); adequacy of provisions for price escalation and
settlement of disputes; existence of indices or data sources for
applying escalation provisions.
(c) Policy and legal framework for contracting with Government
agencies.
(d)  Analysis of the modifications proposed to Decree 222/83 Estatuto
de Contrataci6n Administrativa and assessment of their possible
implications on the road construction industry.
(e) Capacity of Government agencies to manage contracts and
supervise construction; autonomy of government supervisors;
adequacy of consultants employed for supervision; restrlctions
which may inhibit the engagement of competent supervisors.
(f) Adequacy of the engineering preparation works in relation to the
level of development of the domestic construction industry.
(g) Anomalies and clifficulties observed in the process of
procurement, management, and completion of construction
contracts.
9.       Choice of Technoloov
(a) Potential for the employment of alternative technologies in
construction.
(b) Pricing distortions which may influence choice against locally
available, traditional construction materials.
10.      The Industry
(a) Level of development of civil construction sectors, according to
specific indicators of complexity and volume of the operations
that the domestic enterprises can handle.
(b) Ownership and organization of construction enterprises, state
and private, and problems and constraints of each, in particular
. 1ciency of each type of organization.



- 164 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 6
Page 4 of 7
(c) Entrepreneurs and managers: their status in society; potential
supply of entrepreneurs and managers; traditional attitudes;
willingness of leaders to learn modern management techniques;
facilities available for coaching entrepreneurs and managers;
salary levels.
(d) Supply of engineers, architects, estimators, surveyors,
accountants, senior clerks, foremen, and other middle-level
managers; traditional sources, adequacy of supply, and training
facilities available; salary levels.
(e)  Supply of equipment operators and mechanics; adeqaacy of supply
and training facilities available; proficiency levels relative
to the quality of finished work; wage levels.
(f) Adequacy of salary and wage regimes for state and private
construction enterprises; problems arising from these regimes.
(g) Labor productivity and feasible incentives.
(h) Equipment resources: restrictions for the importation and
ownership of construction equipment; standardization;
availability of spare parts and servicing facilities;
restrictions on the importation of spare parts; availability of
excess equipment in government fleets which could be sold or
hired out to contracting enterprises; prices of consumable.
(i) Availability of materials: shortages which affect construction;
alternatives available; means of marketing and distribution,
accessibility of self-help builders; prices of domestic and
imported materials.
(j) Technology gaps in estimating, planning, organizing and managing
construction work, cost control, and construction technology;
quality of finished work.
(k) Research and development facilities available for the industry;
identification of needs.
11.      Financing
(a) Financing, bonding, guarantee and insurance requirements of
builders and civil contractors.
(b) Perception of the industry by domestic financiers, bondsmen, and
insurers. Financial indicators which confirm or do not confirm
this perception.
(c) Particular characteristics of construction risk in Colombia.



- 165 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 6
Page 5 of 7
(d) Availability of credit for the industry from commercial banks,
DFCs, nonbanking sources, suppliers' credit. Terms and
conditions on which credit, bonds, and guarantees are advanced
to the industry. Capability of the industry to meet those terms
and conditions.
(e) Availability of suitable insurance facilities.
(f) Suitability of contractual arrangements (advances or progress
payments) in the context of the financial resources available to
the industry. Acceptance by financiers of government progress
certificates and other contractual documents for discounting.
Terms of such discounting.
(g) Participation of the private sector in public works financing,
through concessions, build-operate-transfer systems or others;
potential under the new regulatory framework created by the
Government's policies on decentralization of the transport
sector and aRertura econ6mica.
12.      Le-al
(a) Taxation regime applicable to the construction industry. Tax
exemptions and concessions (particularly, incentives for re-
investment), depreciation allowances.   Protection of industry
against foreiqn competition. Pricing and profit controls.
(b) Employment regime. Permanence of labor in construction industry
employment. Wage-fixing procedures, free bargaining. Social
laws (health, insurance, pension, and so forth) applicable to
construction. Methods available for settlement of disputes.
History or periodicity of disputes.
(c) Importation regime. Duties or quotas levied on equipment, spare
parts, and materials. Treatment of domestic and foreign
companies. Restriction in the availability of foreign currency.
(d) Company and ownership laws applicable to the industry.
(e) Codes and regulations affecting the industry (for instance,
licensing of contractors, determination and limitations of
responsibility, building codes, safety and fire regulations).
13.      Institutional
(a) Existence of a government office responsible for development of
the industry and for liaising with industry institutions.



- 166 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 6
Page 6 of 7
(b) Existence of an institution representative of the industry,
capable of presenting its views to the government in matters
affecting construction and providing management information and
training services to construction enterprises.
(c) Existence of professional associations related to the
construction activity (for engineers and architects, for
example).
Strateav and Action Plans
14.      A comprehensive strategy for development of the industry will be
prepared, to enhance the level of development of the industry. The strategy
will propose short, medium, and long-term objectives. These shall take into
account the state of development of the country's economy and its likely
evolution when proposing a time frame.
15.      A small number of action plans, aimed at resolving key problems and
constraints identified in the strategy as having a high priority, wiAll be
prepared. The plans will contain schedules and programs for their
implementation, the persons or institutions responsible, the estimated costs
and likely sources of funding, and the standards by which to appraise the
results of these programs.
Staffing
16.      The study will be carried out over a period of 8 months by the
following professionals:
i)   a highway engineer, experienced in identifying construction industry
problems and contract administration, who will be the project leader
(8 months);
ii)  a financial analyst, experienced in fiscal policies and legislation
(4 months); and
iii) a lawyer, experienced in construction legislation, tax reform
and public management (4 months);
Executing Agency
17.      MOPT's Planning Office (ODP) will supervise the study.  ODP will
assign a coordinator to follow up the progress of the study and coordinate
discussions between the consultants and the institutions involved in the road
construction industry.



- 167 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 6
Page 7 of 7
Schedule and Reports
18.      The study will start in early 1993. The consultant will submit a
final report, summarizing the main findings of the study and the action plans
recommended. The consultants will furnish to MOPT a preliminary version of
this self-contained report by the end of the seventh month and will issue the
revised version, approved by MOPT, by the contract's final date.



- 168 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment_7
Page 1 of 6
COLOMBIA
Third National Road Sector Proiect
Terms of Reference for a Study of Maintenance Dredgina
I.       INTRODUCTION
1.       The maintenance of the navigable channels in the River Magdalena and
the Canal del Dique requires the regular dredging of volumes that are
predictable within certain limits which are themselves determined primarily by
climatic variations. In earlier years river maintenance was contracted to the
Association of River Shipowners (ADENAVI), who undertook the task with their
own dredgers on the basis of an agreed three year budget, paid annually by the
MOPT. In 1980 rapidly rising costs and other problems caused a budgetry
crisis and the task, together with the ADENAVI dredgers, was transferred to
the MOPT. Since that date the work has been the responsibility of the
Division of Hydraulic Works (DOH) of the Directorate of River Transport and
Ports (DGNP). The DOH now has an aging fleet of nine dredgers with an average
age of 34 years; the newest dredger was purchased in 1976. The DOH has
approximately 467 personnel, most of whom work on, or in support of, the
dredgers and their related equipment.
2.       Despite the numerically large fleet, the performance record for the
maintenance dredging program has been poor, for a variety of reasons which
include:
a)   the age of the dredgers, lack of adequate supply of spare parts
and poor condition and non-availability of related equipment,
especially pipes;
b)   the intrinsic problems of maximizing performance in an
organization that is governed by public sector pay, conditions
and incentives; and
c)   the other demands made on the Division, chiefly for works
associated with the repair of river banks, in order to protect
riparian communities and roads. By their nature such demands
are unpredictable and present problems whose resolution has a
high priority.
3.       As a result, dredging costs are high and the results are inadequate,
so that river navigation has been interrupted and unreliable, with
consequential short term and longer term losses to river operators and to
river transport. The existence of the MOPT as the principal contractor of
dredging works, with its own fleet of dredgers, has inhibited the private
sector in the provision of alternative equipment. Nor, up to now, does there
appear to have been much demand for private dredging works, with the exception



- 169 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 7
Page 2 of 6
of major works of seaport capital dredging, which require other equipment.
However, in the past few years the need for more reliable river dredging has
become so evident that a small number of private dredgers now exist and the
MOPT has made contracts with their owners, in order to supplement the
Ministry's own operations, either by direct hire or under an operating
contract.
4.        The other source of national dredging capacity is the National Port
Authority (COLPUERTOS), which owns one relatively new dredger and some older
ones. These dredgers work principally in the seaports of Barranquilla and
Buenaventura. There exists a law dating from 1984 to establish a national
dredging entity, EMCANALES, under mixed public and private sector ownership,
to undertake all public sector dredging, both river and seaports. However,
EMCANALES has not been established nor, under present policies of encouraging
maximum private sector participation in the seaport sector, and given the
imminent liquidation of COLPUERTOS, does this appear to be a likely event.
The study will review briefly the supply and demand aspects of the maritime
sector, in order to assess its potential impact on the recommendations made
for river dredging, without consideration of the institutional aspects for
meeting seaport dredging needs.
5.       The project components, for the improvement of the River Magdalena
between Barrancabermeja and La Gloria, and for the deferred maintenance
dredging in the Canal del Dique, put the problem of maintenance dredging into
high relief; clearly these two investments will be wasted if subsequent
reliable maintenance dredging cannot be achieved. The aim of the study is to
consider the institutional and contractual alternatives for the realization of
the required maintenance dredging in the river and the canal, and to make
appropriate recommendions.
II.      OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY
S.       The objective of the study is to make recommendations that will
ensture the reliable and economical achievement of the maintenance dredging of
the River Magdalena between Barrancabermeja and La Gloria and of the Canal del
Dique, subsequent to the termination of the project works.
II1.     TASKS
7.       In the accomplishment of the above objective, the following tasks
will be undertaken:
Diaanosis
(1)      the historical dredging performance of the MOPT dredgers will be
assessed, based on data of works undertaken, location, volumes,
equipment allocated, performance achieved and unit costs, for the
period 1985 - 1990;



-- 170 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 7
Page 3 of 6
(2)      in so far as the relevant data are available, a similar analysis will
be made for the final five years of the ADENAVI contract;
(3)      the above data will be compared with other data available from works
in Colombia and from international experience and general
observations made of any differences in overall performance
disclosed;
(4)      the annual dredging prcgrams of the MOPT will be compared with the
volumes achieved for the same period, any shortfalls identified, the
principal reasons examined and, from discussions with river operators
and from other sources, an estimate made of the economic consequences
of any such shortfalls;
Evaluation of SuDPlV
(5)      the MOPT dredgers and related equipment will be inspected and reports
made of their mechanical and structural condition. The reports will
include an assessment of any repairs and replacements necessary to
restore them to acceptable standards, with estimates of their cost
and of the expected performance, unit cost and reliability, were such
repairs to be done;
(6)      similar estimates of future performance will be made of private
sector and other non-MOPT Colombian dredgers;
(7)      an anlysis will be made of the human resources of the DOH, in terms
of their age, length of service, skills and experience and present
responsibilities;
Demand Analysis
(8)      on the basis of technical and historical data, estimates will be made
of the expected annual volumes of dredging, under the three
categories identified in paragraph 6 above, for the periods 1992-1994
(the years of project works) and thereafter up to the year 2000. The
estimates should be in terms of maximum, mininum and expected
volumes, on the basis of possible fluctuations in rainfall and other
variables. Any planned capital works should be identified and
quantified. A simple computer model should be developed, to assist
in the parametrization of the results, for purposes of sensitivity
analyses;
(9)      estimates will be made, though in less detailed terms, of the
expected volumes of dredging works for which the MOPT is not
responsible, for the same period;
Development of Alternatives



- 171 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 7
Page 4 of 6
(10)     alternatives will be defined for the realization of the three
categories of works identified in task (8) above. The alternatives
should include the options of:
(a) force account, under which the MOPT does the work;
(b) delegated administration, under which the contractor supplies
labor and materials for the operation and maintenance of MOPT
equipment, working as directed;
(c) unit price, under which the contractor bids on the basis of a
unit price for different types of work, using the MOPT or his
own dredgers;
(d) standard contract for works (either individual works or by
sector), under which the contractor bids on the basis of lowest
unit cost, irrespectivb of the ownership of the equipment;
(e) for the maintenance of the channels that have been the subject
of the project: inclusion in the bidding for the project worksl
(f) such other alternatives as may appear, in the judgement of the
consultant, to merit consideration.
Analysis of Alternatives
(11)     the alternatives will be analysed in terms of their expected cost,
reliability in achievement, responsibility for cost overruns,
implications for the present MOPT equipment and personnel, and
administrative simplicity. Where alternatives have significant
differences in reliability, risk analysis will be used in order to
quantify the impact of such differences. The analysis will be done
in economic terms and in financial terms, from the point of view of
the MOPT.
Recommendation and Action Plan
(12)     the consultants will recommend the alternative that in their
judgement best achieves the objective defined in paragraph 6 above,
with its expected cost and other implications. The steps required
for the implementation of the recommended strategy shall be
identified and presented as an Action Plan, identifying cost, timing
adid responsibilities.
IV.      STAFFING, TIME AND COST
8.       On the basis of the above tasks, it is estimated that a total of 13
man-months will be required, made up as follows:



- 172 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 7
Page 5 of 6
- Civil Engineer, with experience of dredging works, 4 man-months
- Mechanical Engineer, specializing in dredg4ers,       3
- Ship Repair Specialist,                               2
- Economist and Financial Analyst,                      3
- Dredging Contracts Specialist,                        2
total 13 man-months
9.       The total elapsed time for the study is estimated to be four months,
allowing for a period of two weeks in which the Government has to consider and
make comments on the draft final report. The detailed timetable is shown in
paragraph 13 below.
V.       EXECUTING AGENCY AND COUNTERPART
10.      The executing agency will be the MOPT, in close coordination with the
National Planning Department (DNP). Responsibility for the execution of the
study within the MOPT will be with the Planning Division, who will be assisted
in their work by a steering group including the Director of Infrastructure
(DNP), the Director of River Navigation (MOPT) and the Technical Director of
the Superintendencia of Ports (MOPT).
11.        Counterpart personnel will be provided by the Directorate of River
Transport and by the Planning Division.
VI.      PROGRAM AND REPORTS
12.      The outline work program is defined by the reports that have to be
submitted at the end of each month. These are:
end of month 1: - Historical Performance (tasks 1 - 4)
- Assessment of Resources (tasks 5 - 7)
- Estimates of Demand (tasks 8 & 9)
end of month 2: - Definition of Alternatives (task 10)
and final version of the earlier reports.
end of month 3: - Analysis of Alternatives (task 11)
- Recommendation (draft: task 12, without Action
Plan) and final version of report "Definition of
Alternatives".
end of month 4: - Final Report and Action Plan.
13.      Thus the government counterpart will have the first two weeks of
month 2, to consider the draft reports on Historical Performance, Assessment
of Resources and Estimates of Demand, the first two weeks of month 3 to
consider the draft report on Alternatives and the first two weeks of month 4



- 173 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 7
Page 6 of 6
to consider the draft Analysis of Alternatives and Recommendation. The Final
Report will thus include six chapters, corresponding to the earlier draft
reports, all of which will have been reviewed by the Counterpart, plus the
Action Plan.



- 174 -
Page 1 of 10
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Trainino Component
1. Elackagrund
1.01     Several attempts have been made in the past to establish a sound
training program through previous Bank projects, with varying intensity and
success. In the early 80s, MOPT hired a foreign consulting firm for technical
assistance in road maintenance management. The consultants put in place a
training program to improve technlcal and managerial skills of MOPT staff
involved in road and equLpment maintenance, but as this program was highly
dependant on consultants' work, it was interrupted once the technical
assistance finished its services in 1982. After that, in 1984, MOPT made an
agreement with SENAY to design and carry out a new training program,
focusing mainly on equLpment maintenance and repair, and on managerial
development in other areas of MOPT activities besides road maintenance. Under
this agreement, since 1984, about 1500 mechanics have been successfully
trained through basic and productive courses combining theory, practice and
on-the-job training, and 8 mechanics have been fully trained as instructors
for these productive courses. Also, some seminars were held from 1985 to 1986
in order to improve managerial skills at high management levels but with
little impact in the long run due to high staff mobLlity.  Additionally, in
1986, SENA conducted a diagnosis of MOPT organization finding that about 50%
of district personnel were reaching their retirement age and that more
training was needed to overcome operational difficulties. In 1989 MOPT
renewed its agreement with SENA, including the training of eight selected
heavy equipment operators as equipment instructors; it is expected that this
task will be completed by the end of 1991.
1.02     The Directorate of Industrial Relations (DIR) has been responsible
for the preparation and implementation of this training program since 1984.
The need of technical cooperation to improve the training capabilities within
this directorate was envisaged during the preparation of Loans 2121-CO and
2829-CO. Provisions in Loan 2829-CO included engaging local consultants for
about 48 staff-months to advise DIR in planning, organizing and executing
training programs as well as foreign consultants (60 staff-months) to organize
I/ SENA (Servicio Nacional de AXrendizaie) is the main government agency
dedicated to manpower training. According to local laws, it receives a levy
equivalent to 0.5% of MOPT's personnel budget. The agreement between MOPT and
SENA defines the kind of services the latter will give, but no direct payment
is involved.



- 175 -
Page 2 of 10
a training program for instructors, supervisors, and heavy machines operators
and maintenance personnel. In 1986 MOPT requested technical assistance from
ICICOM (Instituto de Canacitacion de la Industria de la Construccion Mexicana)
to organize and implement a continuous training program directed to improving
MOPT equipment operators' skills; however, no agreement was finally achieved,
in part due to the high cost of the ICICOM proposal. Neither ICICOM
specialist nor local or foreign consultants were hired.
1.03     From 1984 to 1989, MOPT entered into four annual contracts with the
University of Cauca for the support of two Msc. Courses in Transport and Road
Engineering. Through this arrangement up to 25 MOPT professlonals attended
either the whole one-year program or speciflc courses of two weeks duration.
In 1988 MOPT contracted with the same institutlon the organizatlon of 10
seminars; to date, seven seminars have been held in the areas of flexible
pavement technology, upgrading the skilLs of about 100 MOP? offlcials. These
events were financed by MOPT's own budget.
2. The Proiect's Traininer Comnonent Obiectives and Descriotion.
A. Oblectives.
2.01     The major objectives of the project's tralning program are to:
a) strengthen the performance capabillties of MOPT personnel in the areas
of: i) road maintenance; Li) heavy equlpment operation; iii) heavy
equipment maintenance; iv) road planning and financing; v) read design,
construction and supervision; vi) bridge design and construction; vii)
project environmental evaluation and control; viii) navigation and
ports; ix) intermodal transport facilitation; and x) computer
technology, administration and clerical skills.
b) develop the staff skills needed to ensure full implementation of the
new procedures introduced in MOPT operations through the technical
assistance and studies described in Annex 7, in the areas of highway
maintenance management, standards for pavement structural design and
road rehabilitation, supervision of road works and slope stabilit:
problems;
c) disseminate among consultants and contractors the new standards for
road design and construction introduced in MOPT operations, such as
technical specifications, standards for road geometric design and
guLdelines for the preparation of flnal engineering studies, to
f&cilitate a full and smooth lntegration of such standards; and
d) strengthen the Directorate of Industrial Relatlons within MOPT to plan,
organize, coordinate, implement, and evaluate relevant tralnlng
programs.



- 176 -
Page 3 of 10
S. Descriotion of the Training Proqram.
2.02     The training program would comprise four main areas: i) a series of
training courses in Colombia for MOPT staff, consultants and contractors; Ii)
on-the-job training provided by the technical assistance program outlined in
Annex 7; iii) study tours, courses and internships abroad for senior level
officials; and iv) technical assistance and internships abroad for MOPT
instructors and senior level officials within the Directorate of Industrial
Relations.
a) Training Courses. The Department of Industrial Relations (DIR) will
conduct 715 local courses and seminars in the ten subject areas
mentioned in para. 2.01. The training program is expected to involve
about 6900 * MOPT officials and 1000 consultants, microempresas, large
contractors personnel and transport operators. Sources to organize and
perform these courses in Colombia would include: 16 MOPT instructors; 7
foreign consultants hired under the technical assistance component;
local and expatriate experts hired for course delivery; and external
training institutions, such as SENA, the University of Cauca,
specialized equipment supplier firms and international agencies, like
the Pan-American Institute of Highways.  However, in all cases, course
contents would be approved by DIR (see para. 3.02). The tentative
series of courses, grouped into the ten subject areas, is shown in
Attachment 1. The program focus mainly on developing practical and
relevant skills, needed to carry out MOPT's policies and activities.
Therefore, training methods vary according to training objectives and
target group.
b)  On-the-job training.  The technical assistance program outlined in Annex
7 will provide on-the-job train:ng to MOPT staff. The counterpart
personnel assigned by MOPT will actively participate In all technical
assistance activities to ensure full knowledge of procedures and systems
developed by consultants. Additionally, specific short training courses
have been outlined in Attachment 1 to spread cut among other MOPT staff
the necessary skillg to operate these systems. Short classroom
instruction and exercises followed by post-course performance evaluation
and in-service guidance would be provided both in Bogota and in the
districts. The consultants engaged through these technical assistance
activities will be responsible not only for preparing and delivering
such courses but for training MOPT counterpart staff to deliver them in
the future, once the consultant's services are completed. DIR will
participate in this process and w'il check that the training objectives
are achieved.
c)  Study to2rs. courses  seminars, conferences. and internships abroad.
During project preparation, a preliminary list of international courses,
seminars and conferences related to MOPT's priorities was identified.
It is expected that 94 MOPT senior professional and management staff
will attend these events during the project and will be exposed to



- 177 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 10
technological development in other countries. Through an agreement with
the Pan American Institute of Highways, soma courses organized by the
FHWA will be followed by short job assignments in selected agencies,
providing hands-on application of the technology received. About 31
staff-month are anticipated to provide for internships of one to three-
months duration. These internships are intended for staff with more
than two years work with MOPT and at least one year in the field related
to the fellowship; beneficiaries' commitment to working at least one
year within MOPT after returning will also be required, according to
TORs prepared by DIR. The scope of this component is also summarized in
Attachment 1. Participants would have to prepare a back-to-office
report summarizing the most relevant findings and recommendations and
their potential application to BIOPT work.
d) Technical assistance and internehins abroad for DIR. A key element in
th's training program is the improvement in MOPT in-house capability to
provide efficient training activities. In addition to the consultants
and instructors required for the execution of the training program
described above, consultants would be engaged to help DIR in the
development and delivery of courses and seminars, and in the
coordination of all of the training components. It is envisaged that
this task would require the full time work of one local training
consultant during the first year of the program and about two
specialist-month per year of a foreign training adviser. Outlines of
the terms of reference for this technical assistance are included in
Attachment 2. The project would also provide training abroad (study
tours and internships) for five DIR high level staff and 16 MOPT
instructors in mechanics and heavy equipment operation.
2.03     The details of the training program are shown in the following table,
in terms of number and level of the staff to be trained. The program is aimed
at about 7900 persons, involving MOPT officials trained botlh locally and
abroad, consultants, microempresas, large contractors and transport operators
personnel. In agreement with the Government's decentralization policy, the
training program will be also opened to staff from the Secretariats of Public
Works of the departments (SPWs). An increasing number of vacancies will
become available for SPWs key staff during 1994-95; participating staff will
be selected from a list of candidates periodically proposed by the SPWs.



- 178 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 10
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
(a) Scope of the Training Program in Colombia
Training Area                                 No. of Persons to be trained(*)      Projected
1992   1993   1994   1995   Program   No.Courses
_--.__________________ --___  _______________________________________________________________-  ___
01. Road Maintenance                               690    700    410    440    2,240          137
02. Heavy Equipment Operation                       160    172    170    135      637          64
03. Equipment Maintenance                          514    576    576    556    2,222          266
04. Road Plauning and Financing                     23      23     23     23       92          12
05. Road Design, Construction & Supervision         180    180    180    180      720          48
06. Bridge Design and Construction                  36      36     36     36       144         16
07. Project Environmental Evaluation and Control   50       50     50     50      200          12
08. Navigation and Ports                            60      60     60     60      240          12
09. lntermodal Transport Facilitation               60      60     60     60      240           8
10. Computer tech., administration and clerical   300    312    294    294    1.200           140
Total per year                           2,083  2,179  1,869  1,844    7,935          715
) tncludec persoonal from MOPT. icre.mpres,, coentractors. consultauts sud trunaport op*raxors.
Number and Level of Personnel to be Trained in Colombia per Training Area
Level                          Number of persons per level and training area         Total
or FuncCion                01    02    03    04    05    06    07    08    09    10   pllevel
a.MOPT staff
- Managers                   325    24     -    18    50    32    30    30    20   170        699
- Economists and Planners      -     -     -    74    30      -    10    10    20    60       204
- Professionals              530   100    50     -   330   112    70    40    20   400    1,652
- Road Inspectors and tech. 550    40      -     -    70      -     -     -     -      -      660
*             - Equipment Operators           -   443     -     -      -     -     -     -     -     -       443
- Mechanics                  135     - 2,172     -      -     -     -     -     -    60    2,367
- Maintenance workers        200    30     -     -      .     -     -     -     -      -      230
- Administrative person.    100      -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -   510       610
Subtotal MOPT staff        1,840   637 2,222    92   480   144   110    80    60 1,20C    6,865
b.Others
- Microempresas personnel   400      -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -      *      400
- Consultants & contractor    -      -     -     -   240      -    90     -     -             330
- Transport operators          -     -     -     -      .     -     -   160   180      *      340
Subtotal Others              400     -     -          240     -    90   160   180           1,070
No. of personas per area   2,240   637 2,222    92   720   144   200   240   240 1,200    7,935
_____________________.____________ ________________________________________________ ___.._ ___ _
(b) ScoPe of the Trainina Program Abroad (HOPT staff)
Training Area                 No. of Persons to be trained       No.of Persons per Level
1992   1993   1994   1995 Program  Managers Planners Profes.
01. Road Maintenance                  3      4      5       6     18        8        2         8
04. Road Planning and Financing       3      2      4       3     12        4        8         -
05. Road Design, Construc.& Superv.  5      10      5       9     29       14        -        15
06. Bridge Design and Construction   1       1      1       1      4        2        -         2
07. Project Environmental Evaluation 4       3      2       2     11        3         1        7
08. Navigation and Ports              5      5      6       4     20        8        -        12
Total per year               21     25     25     25      94       39       11       44
(C) Scope of the Traininat Program Abroad fer HOPT's Trainina Unit
Training Area                                No. of Persons to be trained(*)
1992      1993      1994      1995       Program
- DIR's Trainirg Specialists                    2          3         -         -           5
- MOPT'a mechanic instructors                   2          2         2         2           8
- MOPT's equipment operators instructors        2          2         2         2           8
Total per year                         6         7          4         4         21
o.Irae 2OPT



- 179 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 10
3. Organization and Implementation of the Traininc Proaram.
A. Institutional Implementation Mechanisms.
3.01     Two organizational units will provide the permanent structure
required to develop a sound and permanent training policy, implement the
resulting training programs and evaluate the progress in achieving their
objectives: i) the Department of Industrial Relations; and ii) the Training
Advisory Committee.
a) The Department of Industrial Relations (DIR). The organization of
MOPT's Training Unit is shown in Figure 1. Two sections under the
Division of Personnel are specifically related to training: i) Selection
of Personnel and Training (SPT), which develops and monitors training
progrems; and ii) Register and Control (SRC), which keeps record of
staff achievements and training received. Staffed by a section chief
and five professionals, SPT depends mainly on external sources to
develop and deliver training programs; although it administers a
training center for mechanics, the eLght MOPT instructors who carry out
the program are not functionally and budgetaryly dependent on DIR but on
some districts. Four measures were agreed to upgrade DIR's training
abilities and performance: i) strengthening its skills to plan,
organize, coordinate, implement, and evaluate training programs, through
technical assistance and internships abroad, as stated in para. 2.02;
ii) providing adequate resources and repositloning MOPT instructors
under DIR's budget; iii) linking its work with operational units through
an established Training Advisory Committee; and iv) implementing
procedures for enforcing accountability and conferring responsibility
for training, through a policy sustained by MOPT authorities.
b) The Trainina Advisory committee. Staffed by the heads of key
departments of the Directorate of Roads and led by the Director of
Industrial Relations, this committee has been working on an informal
basis during project preparation and it should be appointed in order to
continue during project implementation. Its main task is to advise the
Director of Industrial Relations in matters such as training strategies,
priorities, and organization. The committee will provide guidance for:
i) establishing training needs and training priorities in each
organizational unit; ii) developing new programs and evaluating the
effectiveness of current programs; and iii) identifying external
conferences and seminars tha; may be useful for the staff in each unit.
3.02     While the Technical Advisory Committee will be primarily concerned
with the processes relating to the identification of training needs and the
evaluation of results, DIR will have the main responsibility for designing and
delivering the training program and the overall supervisory and coordinating
role in making sure that the training program is fully implemented as approved
by MOPT authorities.



- 180 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 10
S*cretariat                                                SecretuarUt
Selection of Personnel  egate   n
and Trairt ng Soc tiro  Co
Central OHffios
4t4echnicaltetaff
* upport Itf
Trani   l Cente l=rt
- S m  acba   instructors
- S equipment operator instructors
a(t  complete tesining during 1991)
Notes ftly tbe units relatedi to treining are sehwn.
Figure 1: MOPT's training organization.
3.03     The most successful training area in the past (productive courses for
mechanics) was based on the principle that training accreditation was
necessary for performing Lhe assigned job and a requirement for promotion.
Making more visible the role of SRC, and implementing a job description manual
to guide MOPT staff promotion would contribute largely to this purpose. A job
description manual, defining skills and knowledge accreditation required by
all MOPT categories and occupations, will be completed through SENA and
consultant assistance during project implementation. Additionally,
participation in MOPT training groups and task forces would also be accredited
and taken into account when selectirg candidates for study tours and
conferences abroad.
B. Preparation of the Training Procram.
3.04     During project preparation, DIR made preliminary estimates of MOPT
current and projected training needs with the collaboration of key division
managers. Target groups were identified and sized through a preliminary
occupational analysis. Based on this information, a tentative program was
delineated; a series of courses was proposed defining for each Dne its main
objective, target group, method of training, required resources, tentative
organization (instructors, course duration, participants and location) and the
projected number of times it would be repeated during the four year program
period to ensure it reaches a high percentage of the target group. Although
this program is still tentative and adjustments would be needed in order to
reflect changes in M04?T needs and priorities, the procedure developed for its
preparation is valuable and sets the basis for its periodical updating.



- 181 -
Page 8 of 10
C. Trainina Facilities and Equipment.
3.05     In order to provide appropriate training facilities, MOPT would
recondition three classrooms in its headquarters and relocate in the eigth
district's facilities the existing training center, an old 1800m2 building
located close to Bogota's downtown. Although provisions for the
rehabilitation of this facility were included in Loan 2668-CO, the idea was
finally discarded due to its high cost and the lack of functionality of its
location. The relocated facility, much smaller, would be used mainly for
mechanics training while the classrooms for delivering courses and seminars
for MOPT's headquarter staff.
3.06     Additional training equipment and workehop tools, computer supplies,
furniture and training aids would be provided to facilitate and improve the
quality and efficiency of the training process. In order to enhance the basic
infrastructure for training at district level, two transportable workshops and
classrooms would be purchased. On the basis of agreed schedules, the
districts would assign in-service machines and areas for practice for heavy
machine operators training, and worn equipment for productive courses for
training of mechanics.
D. Execution of the Training Program.
3.07     The execution of the training program includes: i) delivery of 735
courses in Colombia to provide training for about 6,900 MOPT's officials and
1000 consultants, microempresas, large contractors and transport operators
personnel; ii) participation of 94 high level staff in conferences, courses
and seminars abroad, including 31 staff-months of internships abroad; iii)
technical assistance for MOPT's training unit through 12 specialist-months of
a local training consultant and eight specialist-months of foreign training
advisors; iv) participation of 16 MOPT's instructors and five training
specialists in internships abroad ot one-month duration.
3.08     Training in heavy equipment operation and maintenance would require
16 full-time instructors recruited from MOPT. In addition, experienced MOPT
personnel would perform as part time instructors in specific technical
subjects. Both full-time and part-time instructors would be trained by DIR cr
SENA in pedagogical subjects and training methodologies. DIR would make use
of occasional (ad-hoc) working groups to assist in the development and
delivery of seminars and courses wherever necessary to ensure training
quality; these groups will be staffed by MOPT specialists in the specific
field and appointed by the Training Advisory Committee. Training of road
foremen, heavy equipment operators and drivers would be carried out in the
districts and mostly in the field, under typical working conditions, while
performing needed maintenance works on specific sections of the roads.
Training of mechanics would be carried out in the district workshops thizough
practical courses ("productive courses") using and repairing worn and
unserviceable equipment. The same approach would be used for developing road
laboratory skills. In other areas, training of MOPT staff, consultants,



- 182 -
ANNEX-8"
Page 9 of 10
contractors and tranport operators would be achieved mainly through short
courses and technical seminars, including exercisos and case studies whenever
applicable; their delivery would require the participation of universities and
training agencies, local consultants and expatriate experts engaged either
directly by MOPT or through agreements with specialized institutions.
E. Administration of the Training Program.
;.9      MOPT's Department of Industrial Relations would be responsible for:
i) planning, organizing, implementing, and monitoring the training program;
ii) establishing agreements with local and foreign training institutions; iii)
administering the internship program for courses abroad and the '-chnical
assistance in training; and iv) evaluating and reporting the rei lts of the
training programs. Within this context, DIR would prepare a training
handbook, describing the training activities scheduled for the incoming year,
which would be distributed to MOPT headquarters and district units. This
handbook would list details of courses and training events, including: course
objective and content; prerequisites or conditions for selecting participants
(wherever applicable); training methods and location; target group (primary
beneficiaries) and career development benefits (wherever applicable); training
organization co-sponsoring the course (wherever applicable); course duration
and scheduled dates. By this means, managers would know in advance key
information pertaining to the overall training program, which would facilitate
sielecting the appropriate training programs for their staff and scheduling
these training activities throughout the yea_ DIR would also organize twice
a year meetings with the districts to discuss the training plan and
implementation problems that could arise from training activities carried out
in the districts. DIR would report annually on training activities carried
out during the year, evaluating the program results, and would prepare and
furnish to MOPT authorities and the Bank an updated and comprehensive plan for
the subsequent year.
4. Cost of the Training Component.
4.01     The total cost of the training component financed by the proposed
Project is estimated at US$2.5 million. The percentage of expenditurets for
each sub-component to be financed is 100% of foreign currency expenditures and
65% of local currency expenditures (90% in the case of local acquisition of
training aids). The amount to be financed by the Bank is estimated at US$2.1
million. The cost breakdown is shown in the following table.
Attachments (2)



COLGBIA
TOMD RTOIL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Training Program
Estiated Costs (in thousand US$)
PERCNTAGE         1  9  9  2             1 I  9  9  3          1       9  9  4       1  9 9  5              T O     T    L
|                 ~~~~~S U S C O 1 ? C 11 E S T S               ----------- |---------------| ----------------- |----------------- |-----------------     ----~--------------I
1880  s       IBRD  FlV   TOTAL j IBRD  FVIN   TrAL   IBID  S          TOTAL  EIBD  fil   TOTAL   I hBD  Fill  TOTAL 
I                                                            ~           ~         ~           ~         ~           ~         ~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  I  I  I  I
la.    Local course* and a*minare with costs in local currency           65   35      163    88   250        163    85   250  j  163    88   250        163    e8   250        650   350  1.000  1
lb.    Study tours. confetences and courses abroad, and other                      I                     I                     I                     i                     I                       I
I      local training with cast* in foreign currency                    100    0      190      0   190    1 700      0   200  I 200        0   200  j 200        0   200  I   790      0    790  I
I                                                                                  I                     I                     I                     I                     I                       I
lC.    Training for 13Ps'r Training Units                                          I                     I                     I                     I                     i
i)   Study tours and traintng abroad for 9rtTas  trainuig                        I                     I                     |                     I                     I                      I
c,ecialiset and instructor                                       100    0  |   60       0    6d  I   70       0    70  |   40      0    40  I   40       0    40       210      0    210  |
i                                                                                  I                     I                     I                     I                    I                       I
ii)  Technical assistance for the Directorate of Industrial                      I                     I                                           I                     I                                     I
felation  (12 local consultant.-.ontsh)                          100    01   4          0     &S      15      0    IS        0      0    O        0     0      01    60        0     601
| iii) Short term traintg advisers t8 foreign coaultant-monthb   100    0              20      0    20       2 20    0    20  I   20       0    20  I   20      0    20  I    80       0      8o
SUTOTAL  training for HOPIs Trainng Unit  .  .  .  .  I  I  I               1  125     0   125  I  105       0   105  I   60       0    60       60      0    60       350      0    350
id.    Traintng facilitie  and equlpment
1i)   Tool,  md d.lantle dtvic*s for th  tralinig center                 90   10  I   90    10   100          0 0    0     0  1    0      0      0        0     0      0  I    90    10    100
iSI)  Acquisitisn of 2 worksop classes                                   90   10  I  135    15   IS0  j    0         0     0  i     0     0      0      0      0      0      135    15    150  I
iil) Tralnin  Materiale for course delivery                            90   10  |   45       5    50       27      3    30  I   18      2    20    i 18       2    20       10t    12    120  1
SUBOAL training Facilities and Equipm    ... .en     .           .  .  .  .    1270    30   300  I   27      3    30        1 18   2    20  I   18       2    20  1   333    37    370 t
T O T A L    T R   I I N 1   C    P0  R      0 G P A H                        748   118   865     495    91   585         441    S0   530  1  441    90   530  I 2.123   387  2.510  I
a z
0 X



- 184 -
ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Page I of 6
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Description of the Training Program
1.       The following tables show the content and scope of MOPT's training
program and the components to be financed under the Project. Courses and
seminars are grouped into ten subject areas: i) road maintenance; ii) heavy
equipment operation; iii) equipment maintenance; iv) road planning and
financ_ng; v) road design, construction and supervision; vi) bridge design and
construction; vii) project environmental evaluation and control; viii)
navigation and ports; ix) intermodal transport facilitation; and x) computer
technology, administration and clerical skills. Training events in Colombia
and abroad are presented in separate tables. The cost breakdown per subject
area is shown below.
Total cost (US$'000)
Subject area                             Local    Abroad     Total
01.  Road maintenance                                (*)     110.0      110.0
02.  Heavy equipment operation                       (*)       -         (*)
03.  Equipment maintenance                           (*)       -         (*)
04.  Road Planning and Financing                    18.4      82.0      100.4
05.  Road design, construction & supervision       314.0     270.0      504.0
06.  Bridge design and construction                120.0      32.0      152.0
07.  Project environmental evaluation & control    120.0     120.0     240.0
08.  Navigation and ports                          140.0     176.0     316.0
09.  Intermodal transport facilitation             200.0       -       200.0
10.  Computer tech., administration & clerical      87.6       -        87.6
____________--______________________-______________________________________
T O T A L                          1,000.0     790.0   1,790.0
__- _______-- ________________________________________________- _____________
(*) The cost of these training events comprise expenditures covered by MOPT's operational budget;
therefore, they are not included in the Project.



COtGOIA
TriigCuTHIRD IRATIOCAL ROADS SECTOR PROECT
TainCurse. and Seminars to ColombAl  (Teatative List)
AME                                                 TARGEr CRUP                      MATERIALS I2ISTRtOCTOI COURSE 0EG/iNIZATION  t31? _3JST  No. COURSES PERt TMA          PROM"Al COST 1992-19)5- 
la)   --     COURS                OBJECTVE           PeVel I            METMOOS       I AIDS      AGENCT   Durat. I  P-r Locaktion  US$ CW       92    93    94    95    IPIP       3111F'   .TOTAL
01  Maistenane Managemen   Orientate  OP? Maint.&Equip.   90  Seuminr  Visual    TA consul.  16 h.P  IS  Regional    1,80G         3     3      2     2    Cc)        Cd
System.,                  managers.       Managers.                             alda.
0  Kaiatnaemne Planning A  Implement sew  KMaitengnce               Course, on.  Visual    TA consul.
Pro~~rameinga  ~~   procedures.    Professionals.          the-job teal, aIds.
Is  ningL post                            IS h.   5  eabdqus.        s80      2     2      3      1    Ic)       (a)
b) DIsttrc1t1leVe~1                                          80  course pert.                           16 b.   0  Regional    1.200       3      3     2      2    (c)      (Cd)
0  Pavement Inspection a   Implement amw  Matint.profs   80  Course, poatrManuals A TA cmosul.  24 'a.   20  Regional    2,650                  3     1      2     2    Cc)        Cd)
Maintenance Practices.  procedures.    road  Snpector&           course poea. Videos.
0Upae  Roads In* psC.t  iepl5met new    int  profee.t 110  Course. poet Kanuals A TA coneul.  24 'a.   20  Regional    2,650                    3     5      2     2    Cc)        Cd)
Maitennc  Practioss.  procedures.        t r adnspectore       course perf, video..
01  Routine Maintenance       Improve NMO       lait.creveMOPT' 380  Course, post Msausel A TA consul.  32 h.   20  Regional            200    0    to       5     5    Cc)        Cd)
Practices.                practices..     L HLreo.roesas         ecure pert, Videos.
0R  Periodic Maintenance    lmprove MOP?   tosdcinspectors  80  Course, post Manuals A TA consul.  40 h.   0  Reglonal                 300      5     4      2     2    Cc)        (d)
of Paved Roads.           Pruettias.      & forme.               couts  perf, videos..
0  Maintenance               ReIprove NMO    Maint. manager  lOS  Seminar.         Visual    TA consul.  18 b.   35  Regional    2,800          3     3      2     2    (c)        (d)
Contract  oCris),         practices.      1, professional                      a Ids.
01  bridge Inspection a       improve WMP   Hiatt. pTofts.L. 1S0  Coarsea, post Manuials   TA consul.  16 ha.   20  Regional    2.200           3     2      2     2    Cc)        Cd)
Maintenance Practices.  practices,.    bridge Inspect,           course pert, videos.
01   Optisitg Mainrtenance  Isplesant new  Meint. managesr  103  Seminar.           Visual    TA consul.  16 h.   13  Regional    2,800                2      2     2    Cc)        (d)
R         fesocs  use.   procedures.    S protessionala                       *ide.
0%  Equipment Management    orientate NMO   Equip. masagere  40  Seminasr          Visual    TA consul.  1i h.   is  Rsadqua.    2,200          2      2     1      1    Cc)       (d)
Spatoes.                  managsre.                                            aids.                                                                                                                             C
01  Equipment Maintenance   Implemnot new  Euip. prof*esS   90  Cours., on. Compter Tcosl 40. SReinl                                 4.400      3      3     2      2    Cc)       Cd)
Management.               procsdurea.    admpsreonnel.           the-job tral  softare
n'ing S post  manuals A
02  Ilorkehop AdeLinitretion Implement now  Vorkehop Chiefs  70  course per.  visual    TA consul.  24 ha.   25  Regional    2.400              3      3     1      2    Cc)       (d)
procedures.                            formance.    aide.
02lnstructore trainIng.   Up-dsto 2WPT   Equipmnot tnstr  32                     Manuala.  BMUl
a) Tseatng methods,    staff.            'cendidatee.           Course.       Equipment Instructor 160 h,    B  lieadqua.    5,700         2     1            1     Cc
'a) Practice.                                                    Field.        & VIdSao.              360 ha.    B  Ilantzol.    4,200      1        I              C1I (c')
02  Daily Maintenance of    Improve mmP   Ileavy Equipment  70  Cour epost  Equipment MOP?                 40 h.   12  Dietrict    1,800        2      2     2      1    Cc)
Heavy Equipment,          Practices.      Operatora.             course pert. & visual. Inetructor
02  Daily Maintenance of    Improve MOM    Drivers.              l0  Course,poet  Vehicle A MOW            40 'a.  iS  Diatrict    2.200        2     2      2         Ce)
Heavy Vehiclee.           practLces,                             course pert. vIsual S. Instructor
02   ea:VY Equipment          Improve MOP?   Neavy Equipment  48  Couree.          Manusle   Supplier    40 h.   12  Bogota            800             I     I            c
Operation (sense*).       precticees.     Operators.                                      Firm
02  Operators Training.       Provide basic  EquIpment oprer     so  On-the-job   Equipment SE2IAIMOPT                  District
a) Level I                skills,         tore   helpers.  8   training                   instructor 320 b.    8                 3,000      2     2      3     3    Cc)
'a) Levsi 2                        2                                                                  320 h.    8                3,000           I      I     I    Cc)
02  Oprstors TratIng          Improve MOP?   Bssvy Equipment 200  On-tb..job   Equipment IMOP              40 'a.   30  Diatrict       650      2     3      2     3    Cc)
(compieetlevo   el)      Precticee.      Operators.              training.               instructor
02Eupen  Operation I-  Improve NMP    Equipmeont prof.  64  Seminar I    Manuals.  TA consul.  40 h.   20  Deadq.1                     650      3     2      2     3    Cc)
Mait anc  Supervision practices.                              field visit, visual a.                             DistrIct
02  rield Supervision of    Improve 3(0?    Equipment prof.  64  Coors. &          Manuals 6 TA consul. 120 ba.    8  Regional    2,450         2     3      2         Cc)
Equipment Operation.    practicee.        A foremen,             field visit, visual a.                                                                                                                (
03  General )Cschmnics        Improve MOP?   Kechenice.              Productive   Engines 6 MOP
5) Gas engines,           practices.                        so  course,        spare P.  instructor 20 h.    a  Ditrit            650     2      3     3      2    Cc)
ba) Diesel engines.                                        00                                        220 ha.   20  Diat'rlc1t     650      2     3     3      2    Cc) 
0Shev Mm   echanie,           Improve MMP   mechanics.               Productive   Engines I MOP?
s)  rack type            practices.                        220  course,        space P.  instructor 20 ht.  10  ICeadq. &    3,850        3      3     3     3    Cc)
ba) lihasi Type.                                           220                                       120 h,.  0  Ditrict    3.850         3      3     3      3    Cc)



TrinD RArimAL ROADS SIXTOR PRWAT?
Training Couirses and Seminars iu Colombia (Tentet Iva List)
AME                                                 TAlRGE  CROUP                      TMIALS tIUSTRWI   C00SE R MIanZATte  t181 COST  go. CJURSES  ME  PELk                PRO"RA  COST 3992-1925
Is)nS                     oSCtitcn S          Level        I     1ITBS         L AIDS      ACEWN?    Sut. Prt. Leotion  US$ (b)    92    13    94.   93    130?             lEAFl    TOTAL
03o,     efsas                Provid.cw    bai  sb.c.                rdcie fgnsI10?                        40 b.    6  Distrclt        300      2     3      3     2      c
skifls.                                course.       spaire P.  Instructor
03  liatrology lor 1ai5Cb581C  Provide basic  Macbasics.         66  Poductive   Mammals & 31D??            40 h.    6  U.adqi. 1    1.300       3     3      3     2    Cc)
skllls.                               course,       spar P.  iuanai tor                  District
03  Engine aw.cbromiastln  Provide basic  aRebaulce.                 Productive   EngInes & M1PT
Al Gas angina..           skill..                           'S  course,        spare P.  instructor  SO hi.    6  flesdq. 1    2.600        2      2     2      2    (c)
bI Diesel angina.                                            64                                        so 5.    a  Distrclt    2.400        2      2     2      2    (el
a) Dliagunetc evu1pmsn                                       40  Coors*.             Itzeal.  Ext.expert 120 5.   10  Neadqua.    5.300     1      2     1      2    Cc)
03  Opeiration of Diagnostic Provid, basl icMcDenies.           120  Productive    &aIel & 1931             S0 b.   10  Usadq. S    2.100        3     3      3     3    Cc)
Equips.nt.                skllso.                                course.       Equipment inatructor                 DIstrcet
*03  Olineetice of Diesel    Provide bascl   Mechanics.            $1  Prodoctive   Mmemals 9 NM             0  .    S  District         300     3      3     3      3    (el
EngneFalues               skIlls.                            20  course.       Equipment instrutctr  40 h.    S  Esadq.           3.800      I     I      I     I    cc)
DI  Ad3ustsevt of Eogin.s.  Improve IFE'  Mechanics,                 Fiuductis   Engies I 161?
*   ) Diesel ougist".        Practices.                        360  couree.         sear  p.  lstcnctor 120 b.    S  DiStrict          630      3     5      3     3    Cc)
b) Ges engines.                                              12                                       120 h.    6  DiStrict        650      3      3     3      3    Cc)
03  Electromee-banics.        Improve 36W?   Mecbanics 1        120  productive    t..iue L 310r           120 5.   10  DitrtIct        630      3     3      3     3    (a)
practicer.      Kiait. technic.  40  .OUTGO.        spare P.  inettrutor  40 b.   t0  Headq.          3.800      I      I     I      I    (c)
03  solderin  & Melding.       epercv. Mr.?   Ma0cbasics &       86  Produetiva   Spate P. K10?T            40 h.    a  District        Soo      3     3      3     3    Cc)
practacs..      Heist. technic.  40  couXO*.                    instructoir  40 h.    S  Rlsadq.       1.600      2      1     I     I    Cc)
01  ilidrauitc S Pneumatics. Provide basic  Mscb*anic.           Se  ProdutetIve     ngine    MM           so?? 5  h.    a  District    '.50    2      3     3.    3    Cc)
sktills,                               Course.       Spr  P.  intructtor
03  Ilidraulic syetsw.        luprove 16WT   Mechanics.          88  productive   Englines & VA"            40 b.    a  District        300     2      3     3      3    Cc)                                           Go
practIceso.                       31  course.        Spaer  P.  instructor  tO h.    S  ftsadq.        1.800      I      I     I     I    Cc)
03  Servo TrSansissiOns &   Improve MMP   kchscbanis.            64  produtietve   Engices & MD??          120 b.    S  District        630     2      2     2      2    Ce)
Pai: coovetoce.          practices.                             COAres.       Spars P.  instructor
0l  VAX"? Equipmenft plaint.  tmprove, "OPT?  Machastes.        ISO  Productive   Manels 1 18)?            40 h.   ID  District         200     3      3     3      3    Cc)
Cw#losi  I and 11).       practices.                             couras.       apare P.  instruNCtor
03  Oiling & Lubrication.   Impraes WRYl   teChsnics.           100  Productive   Mammals. NM3?            40 b.   10  District         300     2      2     3      3    Cc)
p4nctIaes.                        20  coursa.                   instructor             3  Ilsadq.      1.600      I      I     I     I    cc)
03  flethac'to  Tscbnnlony    Updte 110       Maitentance        40  SeamerA.      lanusie.  SUlk          40 b.   IC  Readq.         3.600      I     I      I     I    (c)
eaorta  updating canvas. atff.            Profo.elenals.                                  instructor
03  Upgrsdtnt  intructors   Provide basic  MMP                       Course.       Kmanals. 
r*TscbIng metbods,    skills,            Instructors.       a                           jSt3I.      120 h.    6   e*dq.        3.300       3     I      I     I    Cc)
hI T*echncal training.                                       a                            Supplier F  40 h.         80SnO%a      2,300      3      3     3     3    Cc)
04   Inasial lPloanni.      Iotaomprov   1?   Plsnning Prof.       Course.       Text.      External    56 h.   10  31.sd.ua.    3.300        I      I     I      1    2.100    3.900        6.000
practices.                                                      Specialist
01  EconomIc Ewelsatlon of  Isprove NM)?    planning Prof.          Academic           -     Univeraity I yoea   30  togote.        2,300      1      1     1      1    3.500    6.500       10.000
investesor frojecta.    practices.                              course Cast)              Los Andes. pltime
04  Capitel Marktst "nd       topinree 191    Financia  anal.        Academie           -     UnversiLty  80 h.    3  Bogota.          600      I      I     i      I      840    1.560        2.400
Finanscial Analysis.      practice..      CEat.Ccedit O0(        Course (eat)             Los Andes.
03Stuctural I Functional  Up-date MM0?    Profe.S.19r.of   30  Course.           Text.      University  56 h.   10  Popsyan    10.000         I      I     I      1   14.000   26.000       40.000
Evaluation of Pavemtent starf.            Roads & tllatr.)                                of Czaes
03  Structural Design Of    Up-data 110?    Prof*s.CDIr.of   30  Course.           Hameul.   University  S8 b.   30  Popsyan    30,000          I      I     I      I134.000   26.000         40.000        t
Pavenant Rainforcemantta staff.           Roads. & Dietm.                                 of CMOcsC
0SOti         Rof  od Drainas* lp-dat. 1MM1    Profes.(Dir.of   60  Cotrsve.       Hanual.   Uvrst I36 h.   30  Popayen.   10.000               1     I3   14.000   26,000                   40.000r
S  abralooa Systesm.  staeff.             R"oad  & Disini.)                               of Caae
03  Sirn. Hiarks 6 Roa"      Ircprove * ?    Proesasionale I         Course.       Kmanal.   Univeraity  36 5.   tD  Pupsyma.   30.000          I      I     I      I   14,000   26.000       40.000 
Satsty.                   practices.      TeetchCiMSe.                                    of Canses,                Cane                                                                               ft
OS  The Sighus,y Dwesig  S,  jlsprvo  31?    Profee.f0ir.o4!   13  Course.         Coptr   xet CL   56 h.1  30  Read.               30.000      I      I     I      1   14,000   26,000       40.000        a
Staisdarde Ialais. Model Iprgactices.     Roads 6 Plan.,.) I                     f.      I                                   I



T&loC*TH?iRD HafOL*. ROAMS SECTOR PROJECT
TiinCors,.ad ioSeinrst  An Ce.ioule (Tentstive ListU
I             ~~~~~TAR.GET GZmW                IZTERIALS IMTRUCTO  COMES ORANAIZATION  UNIT COST  lb. COURSES PM  VWE                PROG2A2 COST 1992-1995
COOlSE  j CIJECTIPES        ~~Level       I     HETM0S       a AIDS      ACEIR    Doreot. Pert. Locatio   U$  b        92    931   94    95    MOPT       813       TOTAL
C5Nt  olds for tba Preps Islaglmet nem  Profoc. D.losde 200  Coors...        mammal.   MO9T taws  56 h.   30  .sd.             1,3S0      I     I     I      1    2,100    3,90        6,000
tatico of load ftojects proeodurre.    6 Consultants.                                   Eprt (LI                 I;xq
5PwS tandards for Iced  Imlement now  Prof.e. D.Roads 200  Coarse.           Kamial.   MIT? toes   5G b.   30  Beedq.          3.500      I     I     I      3    2,100    3.900       6.000
Geometric Oeeign.        proedures.   I& Coos,,tsnts.                                    Expert (L)
0OS  Construction Cost       tmprove lOP?   Profea.ffir.of   60  Coure.           Keanel.  TA c ne. A  40 'a.   30  readq.         1.500      I     I      I     3    2,100    3,900       6.000
Fiat natee.              preciLce.       loade & Distr.)                                 Wit .eam.
OS  1'aveueot IlsoaRmont      -I~date MMl   prore. dPr.of  320Core                Manual.   Export (I)  56 h.   to  Heed..        10.000      I     I         I  1    4,000   26.000      40.000
Systems                  lf.              Road. & oietr.)
05  Rvw TechrIcal Srif ice Implement emw  39? [ro..Coo.. 200  Seminar.            %equal    TA come. &  24 h.   30  Headq.         1.500      I     I      I     3    2,100    3.900        6.000
tine  for Reed Constr.  proced"oxe.    suit   Contrac.                                  "a" tC.".
0S  Road Costroctiou  Pro.  Ispisseot mew  Prof.s. 0.R"oad  290 Course.           Manual    TA con.. 1, 24 h.   30  11sadq.        3.300      I     I      I     3    2,100    3.900       6.000
ermnieg & Optimising.  procedures.   4, Consultants.                                    ran? toss.
05  Laborstoristo Treloing. Provide baste  Lleboistoriete.   so  Coarse I         Mnueml    External   I year   30  Hsad4q.       31.000      I     I         1      1 33,00   28.600    f64.000
skills.                               Labor.pract.             aptecislet
06  PlannIng I Assembl.y of  Proetd. basic  Professionals    60  Cover  L        Hs,uat   11OPt         40 b.    6  lteadq. t-        0      I     3      1     3    lb)                       0
Emergency Bridges.       skills,         bridge sections        FIeld prect.            oPecteIS                  3Olet   4s.
04  Pathology & Rehabilit.  Up-dst* hIT   Pcofe.slonaai             Course.      P-musl    External    56 I.   la  Hesdq.         '0.000      I     I     I      3   14,000   26.000      40.000
of IrLdges,              staff.          bridge sections                                specIalist
06  Hidrenlica for fridge   Vp-dete MOP    Professionals            Course.       manual    External    56 b.   10  Readq.        30.000      1     I      1     3   14,000   26,000      90,00M~f
Design,                  staff,          bridge sections                                specialist                                                     ~C
08  Bridge Design In clinic UP-date 331?   Professionsie    30  Course.          Mtanual    Externaol    54 h.!  10  Heedq.       30,000      I     I      I     1   14,000   26.000      40,000
oree                     staff,          bridge sectioms                                speialist
01  Envionseotl Aesement Iplement nem  Prefesionemle    20  Course.       itenual.   University, 56 h.   10  Popsyan.   10,000        I     I      I     1   14,000   26,000       40,000
of Reed Projects,        procedures.    Environs. Unit                                  of iCanes.
0?  Enmiromeental Control   Isplement ame   Praofs.Wopra            Seminar.     Hanual.   To be dot.I 56 h.   20  To b. d.   30,000         2      2     2      2   28.000   52,000      80,000
in load Projects,        procedures.    coosultenis.
08  Handling of Containrer  up-date ISP? I proless.oCU  9           Course.       Text.     Comes. Not  16 h.   20  Popayen.   10.000         I     I     I      1   19,000   26,000      40,000
sAd Bulk Cargo.          Operstors per. River Operetore                                 to 8, Ades                Begot*.
08  Ptst Opeiration.         up-date NMOP & PreofssS1UP &,          Coors..       Text,     Cents, Notr  6 b.   20  ftp.y.o.   10.000         I     I     I      3   14.000   26,000      40,000
Operators per. River Operators                                 to I Andes               Ingto..
as  RIver Bavigetton.        Preside bssic  River Operstora)        Course.      Textt.     To le dat. so h.   20) To be d,   is.000         I      I     I     1   21,000   39.000       60.000
09Iteotonsl Semiu. an  apdt  mmP  G Prlvetellosbllc           heLmmr        Pubiest. Bogota        32 ha.  60  Bogota       30,000      3     1     3      I   42.000   28,000    120,000
Ialntimdali Pacilitetion Oprsrors per. TrenePot Opec.
09  SuApport Of UsktlOes!     Iqieaet m, i    Pelvattlroblia        Mire experts   n.a.    Bogota        n.e.    -   Bogota      20,000      1      1     1     1   28,000   52.000       80,000
Facilitation Coicttv. p        oilese   Treneport Oper.
a) Level         s         PrIvie  tasi   PrfsLana, ,            Coxcrelse     Cmue   Sxternalis   40 b:   12  nastIt.            ?OD      *            3     3    3:430    6,320       9.0
b) Level 2                               sadelnitrative                                               0h      2lo                                                 .3       6,310      R,800
cI Level 3                               penrenns.                                                  40 h.    8                  20       3     3     3      3    2,940    1,460        MOO0
dl Level 4                                                                                           l0Ob.    6                 208      2     2     2      2    3,990    3,4640      1,600          c
IS  progameming Leogaeges.  UpdteIP?   Proffsselo"esl               Course 6     Cospuisi  External    40 h.    6  Eitsensit   3,000         5     3     4      4    4,900    9,100      14,000      onf
staff           & teewlmmliems.       eXCsreieee,             Specialist                lnatt.                                                                             l
10  Systems Masnagme.        Isprove IP    Ikfsoesre&6             Course 6      Ceapeater  Eatorol    20 h.    S  Fztroai          S00      I     1      I     I      "00    1.300       2,000       0 
practices.      proff.eloeals.        exCeraises,             Specialie                 tsDt
30  netwoct Systems          leprmous        I SP?M    C   etor    Conren &      Computer  Externa        0  .    SExternal          m00     I     I      I     I      100    1,300       1,000      0  :
ManI.mnt                 practices.      tsctoaiclaos.         oxcereisea.              Specisliet ,  -          Ins=tlt.1,f  
30  ESfectie MOe of          Implemet eas rfofesslconse            Counie  a     C~omteg  Expot (LI  24 A.    6  iS?400                            2     2      2      040    1,560       2,400      C
Coptrs & Sysetm.    Procedures.    & tecbmiiene.            oeacletes,ee.



COLOMBIA
THIERD NATIO6AL ROADS SECTOX PROJECr
TrainIing Courase and Seminars In Colombia (Tentative Llst)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TARGET GROUP                   MATERIALS ImSTRuCTR  CODRSE ORoASiArIOI uNIr cosr wo. COUtSES PER YEAIt             PROGRAM COST 1992-1995
(a)          CtlOUSE            ORJECTIYES         Level       I     METRODS      I AtDS      AGENCY   Durat. Part. Location  US$ lb)    92    93    94    95    HoPr        B11    TSOTAL
10  Accotnting.              Provide basic  Administrative        Course       HManual    External    40 h.   10 HOPS             500      3     I     1      1      700    1,100       2.000
skills.        parsonne.                                     specialist               Meadq.
10  tudp ting Procedure.    Up-date aOPr  Administrative          Course.       Hrnual    Ext.opec.9  24 h.   10  Uaadq.          400      I     I     I      I      SO    1.040       1.600
WOR'                     stsff          peresonnl.                                    MOIPT tnst.
10  gas of Aecounting S      Improve MPT?   Profes   admin        Seminar       Hernual    External    40 'D.   10  Btadq.        500      2     2     2      2    I.400    2.600       4.000
Budgtin  Haiuas.         practlees      personnel.                                     speciallst
10 tanagerial Daevlant. Improve HOPT   Managers                   Seinar.       "isua  a. Ext.s c.   24 h.   6  Hseadq.           400      2     2     2      2    1.120    2.00        32 200
practices                                          S vidan.  SENA   t.
10 Organigstlonal Develop. l prove HOPT  Hrnagere                 Seminar.      Visual a. Est.spec.S  24 h.    6  District        600      1     3     1             640    1,560       2,400
practices.                                         S video. SENA last.
0  Tles tlanagemnt.          Improve HOPS   Profess. & ad.         Seiuer.      Vlual a. External    24 h.    e  Esternal         $00     I     I      I     I      700    1,300       2.000
practices.     personnel                           & video.  specialist                laistut.
10  Persomal Management.   implemant now  Hanogera S              Setinr.       Vlsual S. External    24 b.    e  External        500      I     I      I     I      700    1,300       2.000
procedures.    professionals.                      & video.  specialist                lnstitut
10  Aasialtrative Low.       Implement now  Ad" aletratiw          Seminar      Msaual.   External    40 h.   I0  Extarnat         500     I     I      :            700    1.300       2,000
proceduras.   personnel,                                     specialist                Insttatu
10  Hodicsl Services         Isplemant aw  Adedinatrativ,         Setmnar.    Harmsl.   Exte.nal    40 b.   t0  External          500      3     1     I      I      700    1,300       2,000
tlnagement.              procedures.    prsonnal.                                      speclalist               Inotitu.
10  ladustrial Safety.       Improve NOPr  Mechanics   we.        Course.       Visual  . Exs.pc.   40 b    10  Badq.             500      2     2     2      2    1,400    2.600       4.000
practices      adain.porsonnel                     S video.  SEi inst.                                                                      I                                 I..
10  Englisb                  Provide basic  NOPr reglr            Course.       Manual.   External   100 h.   10  Exterall   3,000         2     2     2      2    2,600    5.200        .000I
skiLls.        staff.                                        S.scl.list                In 'tt.                                                               C0O
10  Piling TecHniques ,    trove mOPm   Administrp a ive          Courso.       Manual   SEIIAINOPT   40 h.   10  Hesdq.           100     I     I      I     I      10      260         400
Hailing Management,      practices.    'psrscnel                           1visual a. instructor,        I 
T OT T A  LS                                                                                                        13        1 1192 1 173 1 169 1350,000 1650,000 jl.000.000
Nottee.
a  Trainlang ares are Identified by the following code    01, coed meintauoncel 02, heavy equipent operationg 03, beavy equipn nt aitenancel 04. road planjm  end flnawt  05. road
dSeagn, conetruction and *upanrvieSoo  06, bridg  desin ad cortructlong 07  Projet nvirental evluation and controls 08  navtgatlew and portal 09   ultlocdal facil tatlon. ro.
c    tar tecbnology, adeinistratlon *ad clearlel skils.
set  U"Is cot per coura  or esminr.
C)   iast costa  hown for these eorses comprise perdiems for MOPTS. tnatructors or personl coverad by HOPT'e operationl budgetg therefore, they are not included In thb  Project.
Cd) Experts for training dolivery provided by the t*chncl &estatisc* program- costs financed by IoPT are pardlee  for HOPT's tratnes.
ot
Ut 
0 
at F



- 189 -
TMRD HArlOilAcoLoduAttachonat 
TiDATC4L LOADS SECTUS PROJVCTPae                                     6o       6
Study Tour. Courses, Conference. and Internsbips Abtoad                     Page        6  of  6
*... .. .......................... .. .... ................ .............................. .. ....... .............. ........ ........... .............
ARrA I                                                        TAIET            LOCATION ) TLANOAGE j    DATE & PIECUVCT  IOURATPX0)05NI  tO5TISTAN? TO ATTEND  P1Otr.AK
EVDS!* 01      f ~~~~              see not. (b)   US~~~)t,      sea ~note (C)   I  days   C)   Cd9() 192 193 194 19S  COST(USSI
*  -*.* *..................t                 ....{...... ............
01  tnt.rnstonal Course on Road Maintenance.           Kaint.mSnaers   Luatl so                .     00/3I015    Annal        30        6.000   3          3 3   2    54,000
(Transport Institute of MIletio).                   6 professionals  MiNdutc).I
01  load Maintenance Hanals ewt &  abort job           MNant.managnots  To be detern,  Englisb h ut deg    Annual83C025.500
assigent (Fedel ra   E      sy Ad  nStratronat      1 pr,fesionAl. (UA).                                      A
01  Ea.cutive Conference on  oad Management.             Profosslanalp    'hnemnin (USA). togl,hb  1111/191   Anual            15       6*00   L   o   a   2    3o.000
04  (International ]Load Pderation).                     A pl.nn.rs.       nadrid (Spainr)
0. World Road Congross. (Peranenat international P:*feseionals.  rabat                          .    09/22/91  4 years         7          Y 000                 2    12.000
04  s,eoctatton of Road Congresees).                     (D4r.Blgbv6rs)  (Marralkesb'.
0l  Psn  tmericn Htgtrway Congress.                     Prof6s91nAls.  H0M4tvida%              .      KVUrcb/91  2 y.ace       7         2,500         a        2    10,000
04  tPan Amsrican Institute of Highways).                (Dtr.HiSbuawy) I(ruguy).
04  Transport Planning snd Eeonoics.                     Professiontle   Cordobo                      April/92   Annual        60       10,000   I   I   I   1    40,000
(Tr4nsport Center. University of Cordcba).    a plnaors.              *Argentina).
04  CapItal Markets and Currency Baskets Sezinass Finacial 4Anal.  *ashi on                    .      Dot dot.   .nual         14        4.300   1   1   a   1    22,300
(sponsor to be determined).                         (Ext.Credtt Of) (USA).
05  Pav"ent Nanagusent Systems & abort job              Professzinals.  To be dtera.           .      to  lhd.                 3 50      8.000   2   2 I              46 OO,C
sesgnaeent (Par. Aaercaen ln.tit.of Bigbvays). (D!:r.1Sihw4ya)  (USA!.
OS  Asphalt lb.r-American Conference.                    Prof.telorals.  Santiago              _       11/171/1       years    7         2.300         3        2    12.500
(Dtr.Hi&hu&y*)  (Chile)
05  Internsht; on Poundations Destp  sad Slope    Professionels.  dadrid (Spain)    _                 to ecbhd.    .           30       10.000         1   I   1    30.000
Staublity 'study tour).                             (ir.Cghvyas)
05  Interathip on Paveaent Oesign and Structural  Professtonals.   Spain/Franca    French  to  hebod.    _                     00       16,000   L   I   I   1    64.000
Evaluation (study tour).                            (Dir.HigbvAys)  C ble/Argent.
05  International Highway Course.                       Pr*fessioaala   Hadrid (Spain)    _           04/02/91    Annual       so       16,000   I   I   I   1    64.000
(Polytechnical University of H&Jrid/.               tDSr.H gpuaye)
05  Intarishtp on Standards and Quality Conteol   Professionals.  Spain/france    French  to  cebd.    _                       80       10,000   I   1   I   I    40.000
Asouranca In Road Construction (study tour).  (D1r.U$hwaye)
06  Bridge Nanuagment Systes . sbort job                 3ridf. a Struct To be deter.          -      to sched.  Annual        30        8.000   I   I        I       32,COC
assignent IPan American Iuatit.of Rigbhsys). 5act.ons profes (USA).
07  Project Environmentel Evaluation and Control. Ean'irotental   To be deter,.  Engitsh  to sched.                           3 30      8.000   3   2   1   1    56,00
(Federal Highvas  Adutniacration).                  Unit profesion. (USA).
07  Study Tour. to Environmental Organisatiena.   Ervironnental   To be dater..  Eglish  to sched.    .                        60       16,000   I   I   *   *    64.0tC
(sponsor to ba determined).                         Unit profioe io.
08  Courses . Tours Ninsissippi a Miseouri livers Profos. (Dir.of .o be dster,.  English  to ahead. |                          21        6,000   2   2   3   1    48,000
(Vatervays Aseoc. h U5CE Vicktburg Unit).           Nevis. 6 Ports) (USI).
08  Internabip  in Bulk Cargo and hulrimodsl             FProfe. (Dir.of To be dter.  Englisab  to scbed.    _                 60       16.000   *   I   I   1    64,000
Trenspct. (liver trsaport entrpeansurs).            )Savig. S Ports) (USA).
08  Int*rnUAh..   Sn Bulk Cargo Handling                 Prot*a. (Dtr.of To be dters.  rnglisb  to  3cbsd|   -                 30        6.000   I   I   I   1    32.000
(River porte operatoral.                            Nav*,. A Ports) (USA).
08  lnterntitp Sn Man.  etent A Supervision of           Prof... (DSr.of To be dter..  English  to ached.   3-                  0        8.000         *   1 I 1    32000
lRiver Operations (Pblic Agencies).                 )avig. S Ports),(USA).
T o T A L S                                                                                                         121 125 123 125 I 769,500
...........   .........................._ ..................................................................................._._................................
Hot*$
(C) Training areas included in this program era identified by the folloting codes. 01. road  aintenancet 04. road planning and finAncing; 05  road design.
caosrucetion and ouparvisiong 06, bridge design and conostructcon; 07. project environmental *vvlustion and eont-oll 08, navigalion and ports.
Cb) In the case of periodical events. infomation may be linited to the next acheduled event.
Cc) :nitial d.ts for scheduled events; In the case of periodical events, the date refers only to the next schaduled event.
ld) Estimats4 unit cost per attendant comprises tuition fees, travel expenses and perdies.
Sourtce Directorate of Industrial Relations (MOPT)



- 190 -
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
HIRI NATI      ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
_ut.Lnp_of Terms of Beference for Technical Assistance for MOPT
in Traininofg uOPT's Trainina Unit Personnel
Background
1.       The Directorate of Industrial Relations (DIR) is in charge of the
preparation and implementation of MOPT's training programs. DIR has outlined
a four-year training program to be carried out under the Project. The
organization and delivery of this program involves many sources, including
external consultants hired under technical assistance programs, local experts
and MOPT instructors. A key element for ti.e success of this training program
is the improvement of HOPT's in-house capability to plan, coordinate and
provide efficient training activities.
9bJect:Les
2.       The Technical Assistance aims at strengthening MOPT's training unit
capabilLties to plan, organize, coordinate, implement and evaluate relevant
training programs.
Seoge of the Assistance
3.       The main tasks to be carried out under this technical assistance will
include:
a) establishing and coordinating MOPT's training policy and strategy;
b) updating the manpower training needs and the priority levels for
training, based on occupational studies which will define the skills and
knowledge required by all job categories;
c) defining course proposals, objectives and evaluation criteria;
d) establishing training facilities, learning materials and other resources
required for training delivery;
e) preparing guidelines for course development and a training handbook,
describing the courses and training events available throughout the year
and providing basic information on course content, objectives, target
group and carrer development benefita, prerequisites for selecting
participants, training methods, location, diration and scheduled dates,
etc.;
f) updating and expanding the agreements with external training sources,
such as local or foreign specialized training agencies, universities or
specialized equipment supplier firms;  '"



- 191 -
ANNEX 8
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
g) designing a monitoring and evaluation system for following up the
overall implementation of the training program ;
h) evaluating and reporting the program achievements during the foregoing
year and updating the schedules for the incoming year; and
i) upgrading the skills of the personnel in charge of administering and
implementing the training programs.
Staffing
4.       The technical assistance will be carried out by a consultant over a
period of 12 months. The consultant will be selected on the basis of his/her
background in managing training activities, particularly in establishing
facilities and training programs for personnel involved in road
administration. The consultant will take part in active training by conducting
seminars for MOPT managers and discussions with trainers assigned to
delivering the training program to ensure they achieve an appropriate level of
pedagogical skills.
Executina Aoenuv and Counterpart Staff
5.       The Directcrate of Industrial Relations (DIR) will be the technical
assistance executing agency. MOPT will choose from DIR's permanent staff the
counterpart personnel to be assigned to the technical assistance.
Schedule and ReDorts
6.       The technical assistance will start early in 1992. The consultant
will submit the following reports:
a) an initial report presented by the end of the second month, reviewing
MOPT's training program, policies and priorities, and proposing an
action plan to implemei.t upgraded practices during the technical
assistance;
b) a training handbook issued by the end of the sixth month, describing the
training courses and events available through MOPT's training program;
c) a final report, evaluating the achievements of the training program
carried out and summarizing the tasks performed by the technical
assistance as well as recommendations for future implementation. The
consultant will furnish to MOPT a preliminary version of this report 30
days before the end of the contract and will issue the revised version,
upon MOPT's approval, by the contract's final date.



- 192 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6
COLOMBIA
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF THE MIDDLE MAGDALENA RIVER
NAVIGATION WORKS SUB-PROJECT OF THE THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT
1.   Prior to World Bank approval of financing for this Sub-project, MOPT
needs to complete an Environmental Impact Study (EIS). It is expected that
MOPT will hire an interdisciplinary team of consultants, with expertise that
includes aquatic ecolcgy and fish biology, hydrology, environmental
engineering, and sociology or anthropology. This consulting team should be
independent of the principal engineering and design contractor for this Sub-
project (to avoid possible conflicts of interest in evaluating alternative
Sub-project designs). The consulting team should work closely with
counterparts from MOPT's regular staff, to provide them with in-service
environmental training.
2.   To satisfy the Bank's requirements, the EIS report should contain all of
the features listed below. The EIS report's recommendations should also be
consistent with the Bank's relevant environmental policies, particularly the
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment and the Wildlands Policy
(colnies attached).  Additional technical guidance is provided in the Bank's
draft Environmental Assessment Sourcebook (relevant chaptero are being sent to
MOPT under separate cover).
3.   The EA report (written in Spanish) should, at a minimum, contain:
(a) An Executive Summary (in English as well as Spanish);
(b) A discussion of the leaal. policy, and administrative framework
within which the EA is prepared. This would include a brief
discussion of all relevant Colombian environment-related laws and
regulations, as well as the World Bank's environmental policies;               k
(c)  A detailed description of all proposed Sub-troiect components,
including the precise geographical locations and timing of
construction for all river works and other infrastructure. The
broader "area of influence" of the Project's possible environmental
impacts should be defined and indicated on a map. Any
"complementary" infrastructure not financed under this Sub-project
(but relevant to possible cumulative environmental impacts) should
also be similarly described. This would include (at a minimum) the
river navigation works proposed (for IDB financing) between Puerto
Berrio and Barrancabermeja, as well as the construction of any
planned new river access roads that would be made economically
viable as a result of this Sub-project;
(d) Baseline environmental data on the relevant physical, biological,
and socio-economic features of the project's area of influence.
These include:



- 193 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 6
(i)       River hydrology, and aeomorDholoav, particularly the
dynamics of natural changes in the river's channels.
Also, seasonal data on rainfall, flooding patterns, and
groundwater;
(ii)      The different types of aouatic and terrestrial
ecosystems, including those found in the Magdalena
River's major and minor channels, cienegas and other
wetlands, river islands, beaches and shorelines, and
other lands within the Sub-project's area of influence.
The report should also indicate whether any of these
areas occur within existing or proposed conservation
units (managed by INDERENA or any other entity);
(iii)     A relatively complete list of the fish. other acuatic and
terrestrial vertebrates, and native plant species which
regularly occur in the Sub-project's area of influence.
Particularly important is a list of all the fish and
other aquatic vertebr tes which are endemic to the
Magdalena River (i.e., found nowhere else on Earth) and
are known or suspected to occur within the Sub-project's
area of influence. Other fish, animal, and plant species
of local economic importance, or particularly likely to
be affected by Sub-project activities, should also be
highlighted;
(iv)      Information on local human communities, including
population size and projected growth, principal economic
production systems (such as different types of
agriculture, fishing, trading and services, and oil
industry labor), e.nployment, land tenure, income
distribution, access to public services, public health
problems, and any major social tensions or conflicts;
(v)       The presence of any cultural Droperties, including
archaeological, historic, and sacred religious sites;
(vi)      Existing and projected (even without the Project) future
human uses of the Magdalena River and adjacent lands, how
they compare with the existing natural resource base
(including land use capability and water availability),
and the extent to which they are legal and in accordance
with official Government plans for the area; and
(vii)     Ongoing and proposed development activities with
significant environmental effects (but not directly
related to the proposed Project);
(e) All significant environmental imnacts (direct and indirect) likely
to result from the proposed Sub-project should be identified and
(to the maximum extent possible) quantified. The EIS report should



- 194 -
ANNEX 95
Page 3 of 6
indicate specifically how the environmental features described in
Para. 3.d. would change as a result of the Sub-project. The
pousible cumulative environmental effects from complementary
infrastructure investments (as noted in Para. 3.c.) should also be
described. Anticipated environmental impacts should be discussed
in terms of their probability of occurence, physical magnitude,
duration (whether temporary or permanent), reversibility, and
compensability. Particular attention should be given to discussing
the following possible environmental impacts:
(i)       Eftects on fish and other aauatic life.  What are the
expected (absolute and relative) changes in the
populations of each of the endemic, threatened, or
commercially valuable aquatic vertebrate species
occurring in the Sub-project's area of influence? Would
the survival of any endemic species be seriously
threatened as a result of the Sub-project? rf
significant reductions in commercially valuable species
appear likely, the economic and local employment
implications should be quantitatively estimated. The EIS
should assess in detail the possible effects on aquatic
life of Sub-project-induced factors such as:
(1) The dry-season reduction in the physical area of
available river habitat (due to the dessication of
many river channels);
(2)  Ecological changes in the main (unblocked) river
channels, due to dredging and increased dry-season
flow; and
(3) The possibility that the closed-off channels would
function as seasonal "deathtraps" for fish and other
aquatic life, by permitting water and aquatic life
to enter and exit during the wet season, but not the
dry season;
(ii)      Hvdrolocv-related environmental impacts, including
possible changes in (1) water flows to cienagas and other
wetlands, (2) the river's sediment load, and (3) river
bank and channel erosion patterns (including those
downriver of the project site);
(iii)     The environmental effects of disposina dredced material,
such as reducing the habitat of native animals and
plants, or covering up possible cultural property sites;
(iv)      The environmental implications of seasonally connecting
some river islands to the mainland (by drying out certain
river channels), in terms of human settlement or land use
changes, access by predators to bird or turtle nesting



- 195 -
ANNEX9
Page 4 of 6
areas, and other possible effects;
(v)       The possible increase Li accidental oil spills and other
water pollution, resulting from increased barge traffic;
and
(vi)      The ecological and socio-economic implications of induced
develooment along the river's edge and along river access
roads, in response to increased ship traffic.
(f)  Analysis of alternatives in Sub-project design (including siting
and technologies used) and operation, to minimize negative
environmental impacts. All types of alternatives which could
achieve the project's economic objectives (e.g., reduced
transportation costs for particular goods) should be considered.
Each alternative should be evaluated in terms of its environmental
impact, investment and recurrent costs, and institutional,
training, and monitoring requirements. The least environmentally
damaging alternative must be selected and incorporated within
project design, unless there are compelling reasons not to do so
(for example, if the financial costs were to be prohibitive). Any
departure from recommending the least environmentally damaging
alternative mus_ be explicitly justified within the EIS. In any
case, the recommended alternative must be fully compatible with the
Bank's environmental policies;
(g)  A Proiect-specific Environmental Management Plan, which would
outline in detail all measures needed to minimize, mitigate, or
cozr*nsate for any expected environmental damage from the Project.
This Plan should include:
(i)       A precise division of institutional responsibilities for
its implementation (including monitoring of compliance
and of environmental quality) between MOPT and other
(national and local) Government agencies, including
recommendations for any legal convenios which may be
needed;
*(ii)      A timetable of planned activities (which must be properly
synchronized with Project construction plans);
(iii)     A budget (which should include a discussion of how the
Plan would be fully financed); and
(iv)      An estimate of the time (in staff weeks per year) and
technical qualifications of environmental staff required
within MOPT and other agencies for effective Plan
implementation;
(h) Summaries of comments provided by Government and non-Governmental
organizations on the draft EA and the proposed Sub-project itself



- 196 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 6
(see below), along with a brief discussion of how these comments
were incorporated within the final EA. The final EA should also
mention those comments which were rejected as inadvisable, and
specifically indicate why those comments were rejected; and
(i) Important su0olementarv information, including a bibliography of
references (published and unpublished), maps, aerial or ground
photographs, technical diagrams, etc.
4.   Within two months of beginning work on the EIS, MOPT should organize
approximately two formal meetings to obtain constructive suggestions for
carrying out the EIS and for improving the design and implementation of the
Project's environmental components. One of these meetings should be with all
interested national and local Government agencies, including those in charge
of environmental regulation, protected areas, land and water management,
fisheries and wildlife, and national and local development planning. The
other meeting should be with interested non-Governmental parties, which should
include environmental NGOs; local community groups; independent experts (such
as consultants and university professors); and any other interested members of
the public.  The written invitations for both meetings should include a copy
of the terms of reference (and draft table of contents, if available) for the
EIS, a brief description of the proposed Project, a small-scale map of the
main Project areas, and a chronogram of the planned EIS preparation.
5.   After a draft EIS is completed, it must be formally reviewed by INDERENA
(in accordance with Colombian law) before any Sub-project construction can
begin. Copies of the draft EA should also be sent to the same Governmental
and non-Governmental representatives who participated in the earlier two
meetings (discussed in the above paragraph); these persons should be invited
to provide comments on the draft EIS. These comments can be in writing, or
presented orally at one of about two additional formal meetings (one for
Governmental and one for non-Governmental representatives), which NOPT should
specifically convene to review the findings and recommendations of the draft
EIS.  MOPT should take all constructive comments into account in finalizing
the draft EIS.
6.   During the process of preparing the EIS, MOPT should send brief (about 5
pages) bi-monthly progress reports to the World Bank. These reports should
indicate:
(a) Which major tasks have been accomplished, and which remain to be
done;
(b) The pace of progress in completing the EA, and whether any delays
are expected;
(c) Whether or not it appears likely that the Sub-project can be
designed to comply in full with Colombian environmental laws and
with the World Bank's environmental policies.  (These are necessary
conditions for Bank financing of this Sub-project.);



- 197 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 6
(d) Any surprising findings which could substantially change Project
design or implementation plans; and
(e) Any unforseen problems which the Bank could help resolve.
i
7.   The EA report should be no longer than is necessary to convey all of the
information needed for proper environmental evaluation and design of the
Project. Most of this information is outlined above. Making the EA report
exceptionally long will not make it more useful.
8.   The final EA should be made available to interested members of the
public (free or at a nominal charge, if needed to cover reproduction costs).



'-ULU, .,,KIA
THIRD NATIONAL ROADS
SECTOR PROJECT
PRORECT ROADS  OGOING
- CRIECT ROADS  NEW                                                                                                                 
PROJECR BRIDGES                                                                                                RJOHACHA
- PRAVED TRUNK ROADS
PAVED ROADS                                                                    SANTAITJ
IOIAVED ROADS\                                                                                                                   o     o 7
RMLROADS                                                                                       ElR U*L  dwa2,0C.-,
_     -s. DISCONINUED RAIROADS                                          RA.   lU                                                         J
+     INTERNATIONALANRICSS                                       ATLANJ             |           It
*   PAVED AIRPOR1                                                                     m   _              N
* UNPAVED AIRPORIS
SEAPORT                                           OOGN                              ,      Fnato      t  ItP 
RFNER POrT                                                                   010005*    l    -
-      NAViGASlE RIVERS
to'                ~~~~~DNER RIVERS
-         DEPARTMENLT INMENSENCIA, AND 
CONJSARIA BOUNDARIEs
INTERNATIONAL OUNDARIES
_  _                                            ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~ ~~5,000,  thsons;E  * Momsos    '5o0      /ooMo
S~~~~~~~~~I
-.PA NA MA   r _ oos                                                    r.E ,,  ; tSX.ooo\
MO  I  R'.       g1500        "                                   V                                   E Z U E LA
-r  5   <   eo0               *MonreluE *           8                    df   t$\t  $= <4\                                            t5b_dDwlV%4IEb   t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(orsA ono,sooc o rosnn
T   Wod isalo,f (o A
p                                                                                                     ThnO     nOd                 Gto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Son~~~~~d h Wotood osan
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                                                      inttole oa of22 G.H        Sn Wrlacrcs d  RaonkL
5    '            I \~~7    R        W       3                                                          C,tn -/ $Eso                         on oh. mopqC/  do>w  r cnot mply orn th
o @          O   0.00 (CUTA              ode Isoondorisswn
.,   Pt  Vold.s. v F a , + } / lK,obum~~~~I                                                   -    hi,-V  .   -
T;                                                                              ToCARACAS      pan of6 . _   d WoLd k Gnoop.
/ / ~~~~~~~~~~Anosd.n$so                                      4ioo*                                      =0                                      4  - -.@4A so)  hoondoria,I
\ /   r    1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~E Cl, noS nL0&dJ        n\t         on.,oo     g;                                              CAAATG    ,0<                                    op   on,
j ~                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Costs-XX Goods 
Ins                                                                                                         oOoOso  04                 -c                                 5Cooocono~~~~~~~~~~~~c 
tonAndns            loo,      .q               *U ,                                                             r4    PAIEnMAooo  IJ  ;oG                                 A
Q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                                                         t  ~           Soon   t   ooA         d             t  <    / zpag4on o w.  pC n    _Ga.nntno. 
Ir35'               05 V                                                                                                         -'             -                 Son lto./
'v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ooonloo-  *       $\                         Fw            C UonsY '' ,,,u__
ANRERS                                        000CC   -                      ,                        on-n   ,              ton.no      S                   0,                 d_t.                 ,
rp  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                       0 ,,   J SO  t't       250   y v. j;.0*  ,*a%x,  r
0   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
nOUn.~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~ GI .                                                                                                    SOUTH -
I,    t-.--o~~~~~~~~~---d-MEIC
i2x2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         O        5    0   10 2  500 ~                                     -9^ '2t                           e o ~   0 10 0 20 0    
R.nIo.to~~~~~~~o  /  -    M.IQot                                                                                       4.4~~~~VNEZ EL
E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~ ~ ~  ~           ~           s
C Aeon Cnondn00PANA0 -A\ 
A n' 04 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~BOIf 
Elndo                                               no      Ann                  Boontot                                    SUT
ECUADOR                                                                                                                                                                                  a i~~~~sCobsz 0000
7TERS                                                                              J~A?,ab,~   
%                                                                                                                                0         200        IW                           %~~~~~~0.  00   t   nn.n0
0  510          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                osst015,t,               'oloo2 DoCo0n



