Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC:[AL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18042
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL. HIGHWAYS PROJECT
(LOAN 3453-CO)
JUNE 18, 1998
Transport Cluster
Finance, Public Sector, and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit LCC4C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =       Colombian Peso
US $ l               =       Col. $ 1,262,89 (end of Octobcr 1997)
Col. 1,000           =       US $ 0.79
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US equivalent
1 meter (m)                 =       3,281 Feet (ft.)
1 Kilometer                 =       0.62 mile (mi.)
I Kilogram (Kg)              =      2.20 Pounds (lb.)
I Metric Ton (m ton)         =      2,205 Pound (lb.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAR             Regional Autonomous Corporations
(Corporations Autonomas Regionales)
CGR             Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic
CONPES          National Council for Economic and Social Policy
CORPES          Regional Planning Councils
DAAC            Departamento Administrativo de Aeronautica Civil
DNP             National Planning Department
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FCV             Roads Cofinancing Fund (under FINDETER)
FINDETER        National Fund for Territorial Development
FNCV            National Rural Roads Fund
GOC             Government of Colombia
IDB             Interamerican Development Bank
INDERENA        National Institute of Renewable Resources
INVIAS          National Institute of Highways
MOPT            Ministry of Public Works and Transport (up to 1993)
MOT             Ministry of Transport (from 1993 onward)
PROVIAL         Roads Maintenance Program
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SGP             General Superintendency of Ports
SOP             Secretariats of Public Works (Departmental)
UAEAC           Civil Aeronautics Special Administrative Unit
Vice President                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Director           Andres Solimano
Sector Management Director            Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                          Jose Luis Irigoyen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .1.., 
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................                                        .             iii
Part I.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATICIN ASSESSMENT
A.  Statement of Objectives .
B.   Achievement of Objectives .1
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                            .6
D.        Project Sustainability ......................                       .8
E.  Bank Performance                                         .9
F.        Borrower Performance ....................                                            12
G.        Assessment of Outcome ....................                                          13
H.  Future Operations .14
I.  Lessons Leamed .16
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .19
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .20
Table 3:      Project Timetable.21
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actal .21
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .22
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation .22
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project ................................                    23
Table 8A:     Project Costs.26
Table 8B:  Project Financing .26
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .27
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .28
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statunents .35
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .35
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .35
Appendix A: Aide Memoire for Final Supervision Mission .36
Appendix B: Borrower Summary of the Project and the 1998-2002 Action Plan for INVIAS .44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. It:s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
'COLOMBIA
THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT
(LOAN 3453-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completioni Report (ICR) for the Third National Highways Project in
Colombia, for which loan 3453-CO in the amount of US$266.0 million equivalent was approved on March
3, 1992 and made effective on April 13, 1993.
The ICR was prepared by Jose Luis Irigoyen and Albert Amos in the Transport Cluster within the
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit of the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region, and German Ospina, Consultant. The ICR was reviewed by Eleoterio Codato, Acting
Sector Leader, and Maria Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance Support Unit, FPSI.
The loan was extended six months past the original closing date of June 30, 1997 and was closed
on December 31, 1997. The Bank loan was 99.9 percent disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on
May 15, 1998. The remaining 0.1 percent was returned to the Bank on May 15, 1998.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission of September 14th
to 26th, 1997. It is based on materials in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the
ICR by providing comments on the draft ICR, which have been incorporated into the final document.



I I



iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3453-CO)
COLOMBIA
INTRODUCTION
i.    The projcct took placc against a background of major economic reform. In the early 1990s, the
Govcrnment of Colombia (GOC) began the process of opening up the economy to international
competition, decentralization, and introducing greater private sector involvement in the formal public
sector. The 1991 Constitution outlined key reforms within the transport sector, which led to the
restructuring of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) to the Ministry of Transport (MOT),
conversion of the latter to a sector planning and regulatory entity, and establishment of the National
Highway Institute (INVIAS). INVIAS, an independent agency that reports to Ministry of Transport,
oversees road planning, maintenance and new construction of the national road network. Within transport,
the GOC has begun to decentralize managernent and maintenance of secondary and tertiary roads to
departments and municipalities, respectively.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
ii.    The primary objectives of the Third National Highway Sector Project (3453-CO) were to improve
the road sector in Colombia, open and modernize the public sector, support the on-going institutional
strengthening program within MOPT, and assist the GOC in the decentralization of regional roads.
Specifically, the project intended to: (a) reduce transport costs, especially for the long-distance export-
import traffic; (b) improve project preparation capacity within the MOPT (or its successor entity) and
planning and implementation of rolling five-year investment plans; (c) improve road maintenance planning
and practices; (d) rationalize the structure of the MOPT; (e) provide a smooth transfer of part of the
national road system to the autonomous regional governments or departments; and (f) improve the
environmental management of MOPT.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
iii.    The project facilitated the rehabilitation and repaving of fifteen road segments, representing nearly
2000 krm, and eiglht bridges and has had a significant impact in reducing transport costs. To improve road
safety, the loan financed 26,000 new stoplights, 4,200 km of painted lines, and 12,500 ml. of protective
barriers, which exceeded initial performance targets.
iv.    The institutional strengthening objectives were heavily impacted by the transport sector reforms,
MOPT restructuring, establishment and development of INVIAS, and decentralization of secondary roads.
The institutional structure of INVIAS was modeled after its predecessor, MOPT-Fondo Vial Nacional, but
was later restructured into a leaner, more flexible institution. The project was amended to support the
restructuring within INVIAS and support the transfer of roads to the departments. At the end of the first
stage of the decentralization process, INVIAS retained operation and supervision of 13,458 Iam of the
national road network. Technical assistance was also provided to establish operational guidelines, improve
financial autonomy, undertake the Road Users Charge Study and engineering design studies.
v.    The project financed a number of subprojects and studies initiated by MOPT during previous Bank
sector lending operations, which were completed far beyond original budget and time projections. INVIAS'
capacity to undertake subprojects has steadily improved. These initiatives have been completed on-time,



iv
but with cost overruns. The loan supported thc preparation of the Tobiagrandc-Pucrto Salgar concession,
which scrved as a model for succossivc concessions. Scctor planning functions havc improved dramatically
as INVIAS is ablc to prepare and undertakc multi-ycar investment plans and corridor programs.
vi.   In regard to improving the physical condition of thc national road nctwork, the projcct: (i)
supported the national Road Maintenance program (Provial); (ii) provided technical assistance to INVIAS;
(iii) financed road rehabilitation projects, and (iv) assisted INVIAS in the contracting out of routine
maintenance activities to the private operators and microentcrprises. During implementation, the amount of
budgetary resources allocated for road maintenance nearly doubled. As a result, the percentage of paved
roads in good condition rose from 37 to 76 percent from 1994 to 1997.
vii.   T he GOC restructured the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT), resulting in the
reduction of 10,000 employees and the creation of the Ministry of Transport (MOT). To date, MOT has
largely been ineffective in its new role as the lead planning agency in the transport sector. However, MOT
has been partially successful in adopting and implementing regulation within the revised legal framework,
particularly in roads. Although INVIAS has satisfactorily completed its mandate of transferring the 13,408
km of secondary roads to the departments, the weak institutional capacity of MOT, insufficient financial
resources, and the relative paucity of technical assistance has led to a deterioration in the condition of
regional roads and has engendered resistance to reform at the local level. The transfer of tertiary roads to
municipal governments is expected to take place in the next few years.
viii.   The loan was amended in 1993, to eliminate the river transport sub-component-improving the
navigability of the Magdalena River from Barrancabermeja to the Atlantic Coast-to fund institutional
strengthening activities and pending road rehabilitation projects. These works were later funded through
alternate counterpart funding sources and undertaken by CorMagdalena, an autonomous government
corporation. However, the limited technical and administrative capacity of CorMagdalena has placed the
sustainability of these works in question.
ix.   Trhe improvement of environmental management within MOPT and its successor, INVIAS has
been highly satisfactory. Establishing an Environmental Unit (EU) was an effectiveness condition. The EU
has continuously increased in capacity as it has undertaken environmental and social assessments, reduced
the processing time for obtaining approvals from the Ministry of Environment, and restored environmental
assets found near road corridors.
BANK PERFORMANCE
x.     Project identification was based on the lessons from nine previous road projects in Colombia.
Primary objectives were the institutional strengthening of MOPT and assisting the GOC to finance road
rehabilitation and repaving, new bridge construction, equipment purchase, and the dredging of the
Magdalena River. Project appraisal took place in the midst of a major institutional restructuring of the road
sector. The key issue during appraisal was how to proceed in light of these reforms. The decision was made
to revise the project components, support the reform process, and assist the GOC in establishing INVIAS.
Despite implementation difficulties, the project was an important and well-timed mechanism for supporting
the reforms. The project was amended in 1993 to reflect the change of implementing agencies from MOPT
to INVLAS and eliminated the financing for the river navigation works. The project supervision team
closely monitored the establishment of INVIAS, MOPT reform, and implementation of the project
components. The formal evaluation of rNVIAS' capacity to execute the project put the institutional issue at
the center of supervision efforts and enhanced opportunities to deepen the dialogue with the Borrower.
Despite these efforts, the project received "unsatisfactory" rating in March 1995, a decision based on the
slow progress in the development of INVIAS, inadequate administration and monitoring of road projects
resulting in costs overruns and completion delays, and delays in submitting auditing reports. Technical
assistance provided by the project helped to build the institutional capacity within INVIAS and led to an



v
improvcmcnt in project implcmcntation. Thc project received a "satisfactory" rating in early 1997, which
was maintained until the closing datc.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
xi.    Projcct preparation was rated deficient as it occurred simultaneously with the reform of the
transport sector. MOPT acted as if the reforms would not affect the project, and was surprised by the
magnitude of the changes. From effectiveness onward, the ability of the counterpart agency to implement
the project was disrupted by the transition caused by the sector reforms. GOC restructured the MOPT and
established the MOT, INVIAS, Ferrovias (raill), SGP (ports), etc. GOC also climinated 10,000 employees
in MOPT, provided severance payments, and closed district offices.
xii.    Despite the difficulties manifested during project implementation, the Borrower has actively
worked toward overcoming the institutional ambiguity caused by the reform process, addressing critical
operational deficiencies, and completing the road works and institutional initiatives delineated in the
project. INVIAS has adequately incorporated the results from special studies, and implemented technical
assistance and staff training programs. When the implementation of physical works failed to meet
expectations and institutional reforms appeared to drift, INVIAS acted promptly to address these
deficiencies, which helped raise the project raling from "unsatisfactory" to "satisfactory." This rating was
maintained until project completion.. However, there were incomplete studies, delays in implementing an
effective road maintenance system, and cost overruns and completion delays for works initiated under
earlier Bank projects but financed by the loan. Non compliance of loan covenants was limited to the
establishment of a charge system for the river transport works. Although the funds to undertake these
works were reallocated toward institutional strengthening initiatives, CorMagdalena became responsible for
undertaking these works. The dredging and training works performed so far are not sustainable as
CorMagdalena has not developed the technical or administrative skills to manage these programs.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
xiii.   This loan received a general project outcome of "satisfactory." Project implementation took place
during a far-reaching series of institutional reforms in the transport sector, sudden substitution of executing
agencies, elimination of the river ports component, modifications in the institutional strengthening
component, and completion delays and cost-overruns in the execution of road subprojects. These factors led
to a lengthy transition period, impacting on project implementation.
xiv.   The project effectively supported the development of new sector policies, assisted MOPT and later
INVIAS in developing an investment plan for the national road network, developed the system for
environmental management, promoted private sector participation, and supported the institutional
strengthening of sector entities, especially INVIIAS. Although the reforms in the sector are irreversible, the
upcoming elections and the concomitant changes in government administrations may result in a change in
INVIAS management, which has been continuous since its establishment. Due to this factor and possible
impact on the sector, project sustainability was rated as uncertain at this time. Sustainability issues are
being addressed by the INVIAS institutional study, which provided useful prescriptions for building
capacity, improving financial autonomy and cost-recovery, and introducing commercial practices.
xv.    The physical targets delineated during appraisal were largely achieved by the project. These works
have contributed to the expansion and rehabilitation of the national road network. An economic analysis
based on fifteen sample subprojects demonstrated these works had overall positive impact, albeit with many
of these works registering Internal Rates of Return (IRR) lower than anticipated. Decentralization
demonstrated mixed results. The national road network has become a well-defined network of trunk roads
and transport corridors for the rapid movement of tradable goods, but secondary roads have not been
adequately maintained. Departmental road agencies typically lack adequate resources, are characterized by



vi
wcak administrativc and tcchnical capacity, and havc had to opcratc under an ambiguous institutional
structurc at thc national levcl.
FUTURE' OPERATIONS
xvi.   A number of follow-up actions arc needed to ensure project sustainability. These actions include:
(i) MOT institutional strcngthcning; (ii) INVIAS institutional strcngthening; (iii) increased financial
resources for road maintenance at the national, departmental, and municipal levels; (iv) clarification of
institutional responsibilities for secondary roads and institutional strengthening for local governments.
LESSONS LEARNED
xvii.  The following lessons were learned as a result of the project:
xviii.  Reforms Do Not Produce Immediate Results. Five years after the road sector reforms were
introduced, the condition of the national road network and management, have improved dramatically. From
1994 to 1997, the percentage of primary roads in good condition increased from 36 to 76 percent, and
INVIAS has become a capable and responsive institution. Several obstacles had to be overcome to reach
this point as reform does not produce immediate nor all the intended results. Instead, reform opens the
dialogue and promotes gradual cultural acceptance to change. It is not enough to pass legislation, it is also
necessary to internalize strategies and concepts, which requires time. In undertaking reform, it is necessary
to ensure ithat the proper legal and institutional structures are in place beforehand to facilitate the transition.
xix.   Better Transition Planning Pays Off. The restructuring of MOPT progressed slower than
anticipated due to the dramatic reduction in staff, insufficient budget allocations to support development of
INVIAS while MOPT-FVN was being dismantled, and the need for additional legislation. The
decentralization of roads, which necessitated prompt enactment of the Transport Law, was passed over one
year later than planned. The transfer of roads to the departments tumed into protracted negotiations over
the allocation of resources, instead of focusing on building capacity. To avoid some of these difficulties, it
is critical to put into place beforehand a clear financial mechanism with resources that matches transferred
responsibilities and develop a flexible, demand-driven training program centered around road maintenance.
xx.    Strong Leadership and Involvement To Manage Change. During the first three years of its
existence, INVIAS was overwhelmed by the profound changes in the sector, e.g. dismantling the field
districts and force account capacity, transferring roads to the departments, implementing strategies for
contracting out operations, and completing on-going contracts inherited from MOPT/FVN. This transition
could have failed or been more traumatic if not for the strong leadership and continuous conmmitment
exercised by its senior management. From 1993 to 1995, INVIAS implemented a retrenchment program
that went smoothly because it centered around employee needs, e.g. immnediate severance payments, diverse
retraining., and employment generation inside the sector due to increased investment in road maintenance.
Strong leadership, open communication with affected staff, continuous comritment and careful attention to
personnel issues were essential.
xxi.   Emphasizing Performance Rather Than Organizational Structure. The organizational
structures of MOT and INVIAS should have been developed after first defining the principles and building
blocks of ithe reorganization, rather than by last-minute decrees. INVIAS revised its institutional framework
several times until the desired structure was achieved. The lack of a set institutional structure led to the
overlapping of responsibilities among units, creating confusion in relation to operating procedures and
reporting relationships and affecting interaction with extemal parties. The present structure directs the
vision of staff and managers towards performance rather than individual tasks, but while a sound structure
is a prerequisite to organizational health, the real test of a healthy organization is staff performance. Thus,



vii
a new organizational structurc must bc casily understood by the staff involved in day to day opcrations, and
by thosc who intcract with it.
xxii.  Maintaining a Balanced View of Institutional Needs While Fighting Fires. Project objectives
rcmained relevant throughout the transition period, even though the projcct was not designed to support
reformn. Loan signing occurred simultaneously with the enactment of major sector reforms, which affected
70% of the Bank portfolio in Colombia. This confluence of events led the Bank to consider canceling the
project, postponing effectiveness, or revising the project to accommodate the changes and make the loan to
INVIAS. The Bank opted to take the latter approach. Despite implementation difficulties, this decision was
vindicated by the events that unfolded. Institutional issues were at the center of Bank supervision efforts.
The project effectively addressed the underlying factors in the sector without overwhelming the absorptive
capacity of the implementing agency. In retrospect, delaying loan effectiveness would not have been
practical given the time needed to complete the amnounced reforms.
xxiii. Establishing Strategic Partnerships to Increase Institutional Capacity. The experience gained
with this project demonstrates the catalytic effect of establishing strategic partnerships to build up
institutional capacity among Borrowers. The flank can play a key role in this area, but has often begun
initiatives and only to discontinue these efforts by limiting associated budgets.



THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3453-CO)
COLOMBIA
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The general purpose of the Third Natioral Highway Sector Project (Loan 3453-CO) was to
support the opening and modemization of the public sector, strengthen the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (MOPT), and assist the Government of Colombia (GOC) in the decentralization of the national
road network. The specific project objectives aimed to: (a) reduce transport costs, especially for the long-
distance export-import traffic; (b) improve project preparation capacity within MOPT and planning and
implementation of rolling five-year investment plans; (c) improve road maintenance planning and practices;
(d) rationalize the structure of the MOPT; (e) provide a smooth transfer of part of the national road system
to the autonomous regional governments or departments; and (f) improve environmental management of
MOPT.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES,
2.     Background of Major Reforms in Colombia's Road Sector. The project took place against a
background of major economic reforms-opening economy to international competition, decentralization,
and introduction of private sector involvement in the formal public sector. Project implementation was
undertaken during major refonns in the transport sector. These changes required restructuring several
project components, but the project objectives remained relevant. In December 1992, Government passed
Decree 2171 which: (i) transformed the Ministry ol Public Works and Transport (MOPT) into the Ministry of
Transport (MOT), responsible only for planningard policy, but not execution, (ii) eliminated the National
Highway Fund (FVN) and entrusted to a new autonomous agency, the Instituto Nacional de Yms (NVIAS),
management of a well-defined network of imiport/export corridors and tunk roads, and (iii) eliminated the
National istitute for Transport (INTRA), partly responsible for road transport regulation and enforcement, and
by the end of 1995, the Rural Roads National Funcl (FNCV) and MOPT field districts. The latter was done in
support of a policy to contract out all works, including road maintenance.
3.    In late 1993, Congress approved the Transport Law which provided the legal framework for the
redistribution of responsibilities over transport infrastructure among central government, departrnents and
municipalities. This law: (i) mandated that the central govemment transfer responsibility to the
departments for a substantial portion of the national road network and all rural roads managed by FNCV,
together with the resources needed to maintain or improve these roads through a new Road Cofinancing
Fund (FCV); (ii) established that transport user-charges should guarantee the full recovery of infrastructure
maintenance, operation and development, and give ample powers to departments and municipalities to
charge tolls, tariffs, betterment levies and surcharge taxes on gasoline to finance transport infrastructure,
(iii) allowed departments to restructure their road agencies, including establishment of autonomous
private/public entities with the capacity to issue bonds, contract loans, etc.; and (iv) provided the basic
framework for the franchising of transport facilities to the private sector. The law established a three-year
timc frame to complete the devolution of roads tD the departments, in view that the departments have
varying road management capabilities and resources.



2
4.     Reducing Transportation Costs. At projcct completion, transport costs on the national road
network dccreascd considerably. The project supported the rehabilitation and repaving of dcficicnt road
scgmcnts in important corridors serving export/import traffic. Subprojccts completed under the project with
substantive impact in the transportation system include the BogotA-Girardot, Loboguerrero-Buenaventura,
Magdalena. Mcdio trunk road, Bello-Rio Nechi, Bucaramanga-Pamplona, and El Tigre-Barranquilla
segments. Despite delays and cost increases, the road component achieved 92 percent of planned targets-
about 2,200 km of construction, rehabilitation and paving works. Undertaking these works became possible
as the funds initially allocated to the Magdalena River component were reallocated to the road component,
when the former was eliminated from Bank financing after the reformns. The road works begun under loans
147 1-CO, 2121-CO, and 2829-CO were completed well beyond their original budget and time schedules.
Since 1995, INVIAS has been undertaking an aggressive program to arrest the deterioration, and
modernize the national road network. As a result, the condition of the road network has improved
dramatically-the percentage of roads in good condition increased from 37 to 76 percent from 1994 to
1997. ' The project supported construction of 507 meters of bridges, or 55 percent of the planned target
(the works on remaining bridges were completed by INVIAS with its own funds). The road safety
component, consisting of pavement marks, road signals and guard rails, exceeded physical targets.
5.    Improving Project Preparation and Planning Capacity. Project preparation capacity improved
with the initroduction of new guidelines for preparing engineering designs, new pavement technologies,
revised teclhnical specifications, and systematic application of an Environmental Manual developed under
the project (para. 17). The priority given by INVIAS to improving the quality of engineering designs can be
better appreciated through the following figures-between 1995-1997, INVIAS invested Col$ 164.4 billion
in engineering studies, almost twice the amount invested between 1988-1994. The results could not be fully
tested under the project since most of these studies are for road subprojects not yet implemented. Room for
improvement exists as the complexity of the projects needed for modemizing the road network has brought
new challenges.
6.    The design of toll road concessions is a good example. The first set of road concessions awarded
from 1993-1994 entailed certain contingent liabilities to the government (e.g., partial coverage of additional
works, minimum revenue guarantees, etc.) and experienced implementation difficulties that could have been
avoided by emphasizing quality-at-entry during project preparation. The Bank assisted INVIAS to prepare
toll road concession as a pilot project for the second round of concessions-the El Vino-San Alberto Toll
Road, which links BogotA with Medellin and the ports along the north coast, was selected as the pilot
project. With Bank support, INVIAS applied the following principles to improve project preparation: (i)
retain financial advisors with international experience to structure the project, prepare legal documentation,
and advise INVIAS throughout the bidding process; (ii) redesign the bidding process to attract high quality
intemational investors, including a well-targeted promotional campaign and clear bid evaluation criteria
that focused on the parameters critical to long-term efficiency; (iii) make available to prospective bidders
detailed engineering data, allow time to undertake estimates and assume design risk; (iv) use state-of-the-art
technology to produce "independent" traffic forecasts and undertake risk analyses; (v) address the social
and environmental issues that may arise from the proposed route location; (vi) purchase right-of-way prior
to financial closure; and (vii) design a robust contract with built-in incentives to improve performance and
flexibility to manage potential uncertainties but avoiding opportunistic negotiations. The concession
contract for this project was signed in December 1997, after a successful bidding process that attracted
strong competition and substantially reduced government exposure to contingent undertakings. Preparing
In that period, INVIAS administrative costs decreased from about 11.5% in 1994 to about 3.2 percent in 1997.



3
this project increased the institutional capacity of INVIAS and served as a model for successive toll
concessions under consideration (e.g. access roads to Cali and the Malla Vial Cauca).
7.     Budget programming has improved through better structuring (c.g., the budget is set on the basis of
programs and road corridors for enhanced flexibility), and closer matching between budgeted funds and
investment needs through works completion. The latter is a positive result of the 1993 Procuremcnt Law.
Yet the current budgetary system, with its strong dependence on central government transfers often subject
to variation, imposes severe constraints for efficient management of road subprojects. The project
contributed to a first "network-wide" evaluation of road conditions and rehabilitation and maintenance
strategies in 1993. This first analysis of the entire road network (about 26,000 km at that stage) provided
the foundations for the more elaborate Provial Program established by INVIAS (para. 10). Early results
indicate that INVIAS has become more effective than its predecessor in planning and undertaking multi-
year investrnent plans. On average, INVIAS accomplished about 80 percent of the works outlined in the
investments plans for 1994 to 1997, which comrpares favorably to completion rates by the former MOPT.
8.    Improving Road Maintenance Planning and Practices. An effective strategy based on
contracting out both maintenance programming and execution is now in place. The tenets of this strategy
are: (i) retaining "road administrators" to collect relevant planning data, manage maintenance programs,
and monitor condition of the road networks entrusted. The use of road administrators, with their small team
permanently in the field, substantially improvecd work scheduling and improved the availability of relevant
data; (ii) strengthening the microenterprise program for routine maintenance. This program was close to
being dismantled in 1994 because of its dependence on the support of MOPT field districts, slated for
liquidation by the end-1995. The microenterprises were successfully strengthened and their efficiency
improved through the introduction of performance-based contracts; (iii) expanding the coverage of periodic
maintenance to reduce the maintenance backlog resulting from years of neglect; (iv) piloting "integral"
maintenance contracts, where a specialized contractor undertakes planning and execution of maintenance
works and road services under a performance-based contract. This approach, novel for Colombia,
emphasizes preventive maintenance and provides valuable services to road users. To date, four contracts
were awarded for the maintenance of high traffic roads; (v) establishing a unit specifically devoted to
handling emergencies. In the last year, the unit handled about 163 emergencies (equivalent to about one
emergency every 54 hours), including the collapse of six bridges, major landslides, embankment erosion
due to flooding, and destruction of bridges due to sabotage; and (vi) establishing asset management systems
for roads and bridges, capable of planning and optimizing interventions through continuous measurement of
asset performance. The above items, combinecd with the action plans to overcome persisting operational
bottlenecks, constitute the Provial Colombia Program, which was launched in 1995.
9.    Despite initial delays in hiring consultants, the project effectively supported the development of
planning tools and contract practices through technical assistance and training programs. In particular, the
bridge management system developed under the project has helped considerably. By 1995 the condition of
bridges had become critical. Several bridges collapsed, leaving whole regions in isolation and paralyzing
economic activity. INVIAS responded quickly, financing under the project a technical assistance program
that in short time completed: (i) inspection of about 318 bridges in emergency condition, with respective
repair plans; (ii) an inventory of about 1,958 bridges; (iii) a bridge management system; and (iv) a training
program for INVIAS' staff and road administrators. In contrast, the sophisticated pavement management
system is not yet fully operational, and the consultants are still working on it. The project also financed the
collection of pavement data and non-destructive-testing to feed the information systems developed under the
institutional strengthening programs.



4
10,    In its short cxistencc, thc l'rovial C'olombia program cffectively encouraged road maintenance at
all lcvels. 1NVIAS funding for road maintenancc incrcascd to about US$130.0 million (for a road nctwork
of 13,000 km) from about US$72.0 million estimated at project appraisal (for a road network 25,000 km
under MOPT). Reliance in contract maintenance has brought greater transparency in the allocation of
funds. The results to date show that the percentage of paved roads in good condition rose from about 37 to
about 76 pcrcent from 1994 to 1997. A similar initiative in the early 1980s failed due to the high tumovcr
of decision-makers and the lack of commitment of MOPT senior managers. From this lesson, INVIAS has
sought support above the traditional actors, making the program a stated priority at the highest levels of
government. To this end, the Provial program was made public in February 1995. The prospects for
sustainability are greater than with past initiatives. With the opening up of the economy in the 90s, it has
become clear to government authorities and business actors that the poor operating conditions of transport
infrastructure undermines the competitiveness of the Colombian economy and introduce higher transport
costs. A recent analysis conducted by DNP estimates that in the 30-year period between 1960-1993, the
combination of low levels of investment in infrastructure (below 1% of GDP in the case of transport)
resulted in additional costs to the economy of 5.3% of GDP (2.7% if only the road sub-sector is counted).
11.    Rationalizing the Structure of MOPT-INVIAS. The restructuring of MOPT entailed the
retrenchment of about 10,000 employees. The program started in October 1993 under the coordination of
an ad-hoc unit called Servicio de Adapatacion Laboral (SAL). The services made available to employees
through SAL included occupational orientation and job finding facilitation, support for forming enterprises,
and training in fields selected by the employee. This initiative led to formation of 682 firms and generation
of 2,454 jobs. Road maintenance equipment was auctioned, giving first priority to former MOPT staff.
The liquidation of MOPT's 25 field districts was accomplished by the end of 1995 in a smooth manner.
12.    INVIAS overcame the disruption generated by the major institutional reforms started in 1994.
With the help of technical assistance programs funded by the project, INVIAS has improved its internal
processes by increasing accountability, emphasizing client orientation, and bringing commercial practices
to road management. The organization structure of INVIAS was revised several times until its current
design was adopted. Although this process has led to a difficult transition period and further institutional
strengthening is necessary, INVIAS has become more efficient and responsive, especially relative to its'
predecessor. The institutional strengthening methodologies used to develop managerial capacity within
INVIAS are being used as a model for modernizing departmental road agencies.
13.    The following institutional components were added to the project to strengthen INVIAS: (i)
strategic planning and governance, which helped INVIAS identify operational bottlenecks and corrective
action plans within and outside its governance, and increase accountability through periodic evaluation of
action plans; (ii) management strengthening program, in which international management consultants
reviewed and made recommendations to strengthen business processes; (iii) a road-user charges and fiscal
revenues study, which has formed the basis for policy discussion among Colombian sector authorities.2
The project funded the second phase of this study with a two fold purposes: to explore the alternatives for
enhancing [NVIAS revenue generation base and reducing its reliance on central governnent revenues, and
identify possible revenue sources for financing road maintenance programs and meeting the needs of the
secondary and tertiary road networks. Although tolls presently cover 20 percent of road investment, it was
2   The first phase funded under Loan 3157-00, highlighted the need to enhance the structure of road user charges to meet the requirements
established in the Transport Law (e.g. reflect marginal pricing and cover current expenditures and expansion/modernization of roads.) The report
concluded that at the national level, revenues exceed expenditures but may be insufficient to support the planned increase in funds needed for
expansion; con versely at the subnational level the structure supports only 15 percent of projected needs. Although overall levels of user charges
comply with a r elated covenant in Loan 3453-00, the study stressed the need to refine the manner in which revenues are accounted, ensure that road
user charges cover maintenance/rehabilitation at all levels and include a reasonable contribution for expansion and modernization of the road network.



5
necessary to fully cxplorc the alternativcs for crhancing INVIAS revenue gencration basc to reducc its
strong rcliance on the central governmcnt, and idcntify revenuc sources for the maintenance of secondary
and tcrtiary roads; (iv) institutional strengthcning of dcpartmcnts; (v) financing studies (traffic, cnginecring,
cconomic environmcntal) to assist INVIAS prepare a pilot road conccssion project with the potential use of
Bank enhancement instruments; and (iv) a network-wide traffic study to provide traffic forecasts and
measure possible traffic diversions due to competition/interaction among road segments subject to tolling.
14.   On the contrary, the Ministry of Transport has yet to assume its new role in an effectively manner.
Weaknesses in MOPT planning and policy making capabilities were not evident until road and river work
execution responsibilities were removed. MOT used its own internal funds to carry out the few transport
strengthening programs initially included in the project (e.g., facilitation of multimodal transport), which
the Bank loan could no longer finance after the change in executing agencies to INVIAS. Even the
recommendations of the decentralization study could not be implemented as planned as MOT could not lead
the transfer process, and protracted negotiations over the resources hampered a gradual transition. A
positive step, however, was MOT's decision to update and make fully operational the Transport Mastcr
Plan developed under the Second Highways Sector Project (Loan 2829-CO). Work on the plan, seen now
as a key planning tool for MOT, is still underway.
15.   Providing a Smooth Transfer of Roads to the Departments. The devolution of roads mandated
by the Transport Law was another important element of reform, with positive effects in the allocation of
resources to the national road network. The primary issue continues to be the weak institutional and
financial capacity of many of the departments who were recipients of the roads. No specific indicators
were included in the project to assess the achievement of this objective, but developing such capacity would
entail substantial institutional strengthening efforts than envisaged under the project. In three years,
INVIAS passed on to the departments the administration of 13,400 km of secondary roads. This process,
however, has not been smooth. In 1996 INVIAS started providing technical assistance to a small number
of departments to develop road maintenance programs at the departmental level. Although too early to tell,
the results so far are mixed. Some departments have shown commitment to putting to work their own
Provial programs and building institutional capacity needed to implement these initiatives while others have
not participated, or ignored the recommendationas outlined by RNVIAS. GOC is continuing this effort under
an iDB-funded transport project, approved in November 1997, but without the full transfer of local roads,
there will continue to be an overlap of responsibilities regarding regional roads administered by FNCV and
tertiary roads administered by the departments and municipalities with partial funding from FCV. It is
therefore necessary to apportion the tertiary road networks according to their respective mandates.
16.   MOPT/FVN struggled in the past by starting too many road subprojects at the same time but
completing only a few because of a tendency to spreading budgetary resources over a large number of
contracts. Although regional pressure can be cited as a driving force behind this policy, the composition of
the national road network under MOPT provided the enabling environment for such pressure-within
MOPT's road network, about 50 percent of the road served local traffic (less than 300 vehicles per day)
and 10 percent of the network accounted for 55 percent of total vehicle kilometers. With the transfer of
secondary roads, INVIAS could concentrate its efforts on a well-defined network of integration corridors
that truly serve national interests and is therefore less susceptible to regional pressures.
17.   Improving Environmental Management. The creation and staffing of an Environmental Unit was
a condition of loan effectiveness. This unit within MOPT began with six professionals. At present, the
INVIAS Sub-directorate of the Environment houses a multidisciplinary group of 50 engineers, biologists,
socials scientists, geographers, social workers, and lawyers. In its five years of existence, it has developed
into a skilled unit capable of addressing environmental and social issues in road projects and has had a



6
recognizable impact on the decision making procCsscs within INVIAS. During project implcmentation, the
unit continued to build its internal capacity as it evolved through the following stages: (i) incorporating
cnvironmental asscssmcnt capacity into the project planning cyclcs, which includes the preparation of tcrms
of reference for environmental assessments studies, monitoring implementation of cngineering designs and
works execujtion, and facilitating approval of environmental permits issued by the Ministry of Environment
(MOE)3; (ii) incorporating social aspects in road management, e.g. undertaking social assessmcnt studics,
developing social programs to assist vulnerable groups, applying social valuation principles for right-of-
way acquisition. INVIAS recently published a document summarizing its social policics for planning,
design and execution of road projects;4 and (iii) restoring environmental assets along rights-of-way and
promoting sustainable development along road corridors. To this end, INVIAS is working on establishing
strategic partnerships to manage indirect environmental impacts such as land use, location of industries,
etc. INVIAS is also attempting to become certified under the ISO 14000 - Environmental Management
Systems. Moreover, the whole organization culture has become environmental friendly, as one of the four
purposes in INVIAS' mission statement is environment protection in an integral manner.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.    A number of factors impacted on project implementation. Most notably, the changes brought by
the reforms, which were initially disruptive but in the end led to good results as the principies underlying
these actions were sound. These factors include: (i) disruptive changeover of organizations and policies; (ii)
unclear financial support mechanisms in decentralization; (ii) weaknesses associated with old contracts
inherited from MOPT/FVN; (iv) more stringent environmental requirements; and (v) changes in jurisdiction
regarding the Magdalena River.
19.    Disruptive Changeover of Organizations and Policies in Road Sector. Project implementation
was impacted by major changes in the institutional structure for roads, which continued the reforms in the
port and rail subsectors. In fulfilling a constitutional mandate to modernize the state, GOC issued on
December 30, 1992, more than sixty decrees that abolished, restructured, consolidated or created various
public entities. The reforms were designed to eliminate the public sector presence in areas where direct
public involvement was considered unnecessary or unproductive and to strengthen public intervention in
areas emphasized by the Constitution. These reforms affected nearly 70 percent of the Bank's portfolio in
Colombia. The reforms in the road subsector also reinforced decentralization by shifting responsibility for
public investment and programs to the departments and municipalities. The decrees established transition
periods to minimize disruptions, but the magnitude of the changes and the confluence of other factors (such
as the need to work out pending implementation details, pass additional legislation, and put in place new
financing mechanisms to support decentralization) made the transition periods too short for the smooth
implementation of the reforms.
20.    The reforms affected the project in several ways. First, the reforms required restructuring the
project prior to effectiveness to reflect the change in implementing agencies, from MOPT-FVN to INVIAS,
and the fact that INVIAS had to operate under different policy frarneworks (e.g. outsourcing) and over a
different jurisdiction, the national road network. The project was also amended to transfer financing of the
river navigaLtion components to the MOPT (later the MOT), eliminated acquisition of new maintenance
3      An important document at this stage is the Environmental Manual for Contractors developed under the project. The Manual is routinely
used in bidding and contract documents
4  NVIAS, VIAS y Desarollo Social: Impactos Socioambientales. INVIAS, Bogota, Colombia. February, 1998.



7
equipmcnt, and provided for financing the rchabilitation of existing equipment. Sccond, the rcformns implied
changes that demanded substantial attention froim scnior managcment and wcakcned implemcntation
capacity in thc Borrower. The most significant, and their additional implications for the projcct, werc: (i) a
largc retrcnchment program that originated loss of institutional memory during the changeover; (ii) timc
consuming negotiations over the transfer of roads to departments that made planning and budgeting more
unccrtain; (iii) a disruptive changeover from MOPT/FVN to INVIAS due to inadequate planning for the
transition; and (iv) the need to put in place a wholc new organization with new business processes and
strategies. In rctrospect, these changes made thc first three years of project implementation very difficult,
but from 1996 on the intended results were procluced. Now that INVIAS with project support has overcome
past deficiencies, it has demonstrated much more implementation capacity that the former MOPT/FVN.
21.    Unclear Financial Mechanisms to Support Decentralization. The transfer of roads become a
protracted process. It entailed time consuming negotiations over the control of resources associated with it,
and political debate on the reforms themselves as well as on aspects such as the beneficiaries of MOPT's
road equipment fleet. Such process hampered the delivery of badly needed institutional building programs.
T'his is illustrated by the fact that: (i) preparation of an externally funded project to support departmental
road networks needs, took more than four years to complete; and (ii) the liquidation of FNCV (suspended
in 1995) after the retrenchment program had left the organization with few field offices and less than ten
percent of the staff.
22.    To facilitate the decentralization of roadls, the project financed a decentralization study, technical
assistance programs, and the second phase of the Road Fund Strategies Users Charges Study to identify
possible revenue sources to finance road maintenance activities at the departmental and municipal levels.
Limited interest from regional government authorities, insufficient resources, administrative difficulties
within FCV, and liquidation of FNCV impeded the effective delivery of technical assistance. The ability
and readiness of local governments to develop the technical and administrative capacity to effectively
maintain road networks within their jurisdictions and the obtaining of necessary funding to undertake
maintenance activities continue to be major issues.
23.    Weaknesses Associated with Old Contracts Inherited from MOPT/FVN. Out of 60 road
subprojects carried out under the project, 44 consisted of works started under previous Bank projects.
Although cost overruns continued to persist, these older contracts accounted for the largest cost overruns
and completion delays. The main causes included: (i) inadequate preparation prior to contract award as
works were added, or the technical specifications revised; (ii) mismatches between budget appropriations
and contract costs through completion, exacerbated by the frequent additions of works; (iii) delays in
acquisition of right-of-way due to inadequate procedures; (iv) changes in designs due to environmental
reasons; and (v) security concerns, which restricts the availability of road equipment in certain areas, or
sabotage, which required repairs.
24.    The Procurement Law (Law 80 of 199:3) had a positive effect, as it made illegal some of the
practices that had become common under the previous legislation (Decree No. 222), especially with regard
to assigning budgetary resources, and requiring adequate project designs, and limiting cost and time
additions to contracts. INVIAS administered only five subprojects under the new legal framework. Because
most of the project works were awarded under the previous legal framework, it is difficult to ascertain the
overall impact of this new statute. Nevertheless, the project works administered under the new legal
framework have demonstrated fewer tendencies to cost overruns and time delays.
25.    New environmental policies and procedures. As part of the general reform program undertaken
by GOC, a cabinet level agency, the Ministry of Environment was created in 1993 to replace the then



8
cxisting ovcrsight cntity for natural and rcnewable rcsourccs, INDERENA. This new institutional
framcwork lcd to thc enactment of morc stringent cnvironmcntal regulation and the department level
Corporaciones Autonomas Regionales (CARs) became responsible for granting environmcntal clcarances.
Howcver, most of the CARs were too weak to fulfill their duties in a timely and cfficicnt manner, which led
to delays in granting clearances and execution of several road subprojects. Road construction subprojccts
along sensitive areas required complex environmental management plans and the addition of costly
mitigation measures. For example, the Romelia-EI Pollo subproject was redesigned to meet these
requirements, thereby necessitating costly new drainage systems and slope protection measures, and
increasing earth movement costs to borrow/deposit the transported soil.
26.    Changes in Jurisdiction over Magdalena River. When the project was amended in 1993,
implementation and financing of the Magdalena River component remained under MOPT (later MOT).
The planned works aimed at: (i) ensuring year-round navigability of the Magdalena River through dredging
and closing of secondary channels from Barrancabermeja to La Gloria, and maintenance dredging of the
Canal del I)ique on the Atlantic Coast; (ii) improving port facilities; and (iii) establishing a tariff system to
cover future maintenance costs. Additional reforms, introduced in 1994, stripped MOT of nearly all its
functions, except for regulatory oversight.5 CorMagdalena, an autonomous public corporation, was created
to coordinate development on the Magdalena River basin and implement project works, which were not
comnmenced until 1996. Since its inception, CorMagdalena has been characterized by weak institutional,
administrative, and technical capacity to undertake these works, imperiling sustainability. To address these
deficiencies, MOT needs to strengthen its oversight capacity to enable detection of possible shortfalls and
introduce corrective measures. Adequate monitoring mechanisms and corrective measures need to be
introduced.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.    Sustainability. Uncertain. Although the reforms in the sector are irreversible, the upcoming
elections and concomitant changes in administrations may result in a change in iNVIAS management,
which has been continuous since its establishment. Due to this factor and possible impact on the sector,
project sustainability was rated as uncertain at this time. Assessment of project sustainability was based on
the gains achieved with the institutional reforms and the on-going process of deepening institutional and
financial capacity of INVIAS.6 As a relatively new entity formed without a general sector strategy,
INVIAS has designed, restructured, and developed its institutional structure, while executing works,
transferring roads to the departments, improving a deteriorating road network, and restructuring inefficient
contractual practices. INVIAS has also contracted out road maintenance activities to microenterprises and
other private firms, which has dramatically increased project execution capacity, dramatically reduced
staff, lowered cost structures, and improved contractual procedures. INVIAS is strengthening its human
resource base, emphasizing service to road users in its business processes, and further improving project
planning and monitoring functions. INVIAS has demonstrated sufficient capacity in the sector, which
continues to increase steadily as more initiatives are undertaken, such as the concession of toll road
corridors to the private sector. An important indicator of the sustainability of these initiatives is that the
number of primary roads in good condition increased from 37 to 76 percent in three years.7
5   MOT maintained full jurisdiction over the other river basins in Colombia.
6   A Bank project under preparation would assist in transforming INVIAS into a high-perfornance, commercially and user-oriented road agency.
7   INVIAS' capacity in the sector has made it a potential target for inefficient departments to return roads to INVIAS as was the case with MOPT.
Government authorities must also avoid entrusting to INVIAS programs that dilute its capacity to administer the primary road network. The National
Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) recently charged INVIAS with 2,576 km (nearly 20 percent increase in the national road



9
28.     To ensure sustainability ovcr timc, INVIAS is continuing to improve its organizational structurc to
remove existing shortfalls, simplify processes, strcngthen human rcsource quality and projcct management
capacity, institutc performance incentives, test the cffcctivencss of management systems developed under
pilot projects, and emphasizc management of "road corridors." The lattcr is a first stcp toward increasing
user responsiveness. Most of the institutional gains arc grounded on the new policies implemcnted through
the reform (e.g., phasing out of force account and full-fledge outsourcing of INVIAS operations) which
entail changes almost irreversible. T'he process, however, still requires key decisions outside the governance
of INVIAS, especially with regard to increasing its financial autonomy. This objective can be achieved by
reducing its dependence on central government budgetary decisions and improving road sector financing by
extending fees-for-services. Additional sector reforms include actions in the following areas:
*   Further strengthening of INVIAS to better transform the organization into a commercial entity,
especially in: (i) enhancing project management capacity through certification of project managers, (ii)
institutionalizing the use of performance indlicators; (iii) increasing involvement of users and other key
players in sector decisions; and (iii) gradually implementing total quality requirements for contractors,
road operators and consultants that undertalce operations on behalf of INVIAS.
*   Refining the agenda at the subnational levels to balance distribution of responsibilities, institutional
capacity and resources for the management of secondary and tertiary road networks, which requires (i)
clarifying institutional and operational roles among departments, municipalities, and national agencies,
e.g. FNCV, FCV, DRI, Fondo Nacional Regalias; (ii) completing decentralization of tertiary roads,
(iii) strengthening capacity for the sustainable maintenance of secondary and tertiary road networks,
and (iv) establishing stable sources of funding based on a system of charges managed with direct
involvement of representative users.8
*   Strengthening MOT, which due to internal weaknesses, has not yet assumed its role as the leading
entity of the sector. This process requires building up capacity to establish transport policy and
planning through the appropriate tools, and developing intermodal strategies. MOT also must lead
decentralization efforts by coordinating the action plans outlined under the departmental Provial
programs, and Infrastructure and Transport Plans, developed with support from INVIAS and FCV,
respectively.
E.      Bank Performance
29.     Project Identification and Preparation. Satisfactorv. Project identification built on the lessons
learned from nine previous road projects in Colombia. Primary sector objectives included institutional
strengthening of MOPT and financing part of the 1991-95 Investment Plan, which listed the rehabilitation
and repaving of existing roads, new bridge construction, equipment purchases, a river training program and
dredging of the Magdalena River. The project also included completing a large number of road subprojects
which were started under previous Bank projects.
network) of additional roads, consisting of: (i) 582 km under the Borders Law, (ii) 449 km in the Paez Region, assigned by the Paez Law; and (iii)
1,545 km of roads previously transferred to the departments but returned to INVIAS due to Law 105. (CONPES Report #2972, "Plan de Expansion
de la Red Nacional de Carreteras." Bogoti, December 1997)
S   A recent report prepared by CONPES defined the criteria for classifying secondary and tertiary roads and recommended the prompt transfer of
tertiary roads from FNCV to municipalities CONPES Report h2965, "Estrategias para el Fortalecimiento de la Red Secundaria y Terciaria de
Catreteras." Bogota, Colombia, Nov. 1997.



l0
30.    Project preparation began at the time when the reforms in the rail and port subscctors were
enacted, and the first discussions about restructuring the road subsector were taking place. The stratcgy in
previous Bank projects had focused on the slow process of building up capacity in MOPT and its ficld
districts through technical assistance programs, staff training programs, and acquisition of road
maintenance equipment. The project was designed along these lines, although more attention was given to
identifying road subprojects investment needs based on the best information available, and designing a core
technical assistance and staff training program to address MOPT's institutional shortcomings. The
inclusion of the Magdalena River component (river dredging and training, maintenance of Canal del Dique,
and improvements to river ports) was discussed extensively, but finally accepted.
31.   Project Appraisal. Satisfactory. At the time of appraisal, discussion of road sector refonns had
been underway for a while, albeit outside MOPT; the reform agenda was still unsettled, in respect of the
specific changes to be introduced, timing, and means (e.g., type of legal instruments). Thus, the major
institutional changes that affected the project later on, other than decentralization, were not foreseen nor
addressed specifically during appraisal. Despite being a follow-on operation (the third road sector operation
with MOPT as the implementing agency), the SAR identified shortcomings in MOPT and included
safeguards such as the Performance Plan, by which other government agencies (i.e. DNP) would undertake
the supervision of MOPT and monitor progress against agreed physical, financial and institutional targets.
32.   Increased involvement by the Bank in designing the reforms would have perhaps minimized the
impact of these changes on project implementation. This outcome could have been achieved, for example,
by designing a less ambitious project that would only address institutional needs. However, the fact is that a
large number of road subprojects, already underway, required urgent financing. The delays experienced in
preparing an externally funded project to specifically support road decentralization also suggests that
effective donor participation in govenunent reform agendas is not always easy to achieve. In sum, project
objectives and most of the original institutional strengthening components remained valid throughout the
reform process, although other components such as the acquisition of maintenance equipment or the
Magdalena River were eliminated or excluded from Bank financing due to the reforms.
33.   The SAR provided a detailed list of road subprojects, cost estimates through completion, and
progress indicators. As many subprojects were carried over from previous operations, and new short
segments vvere added, the road program covered a large number of subprojects scattered throughout the
country. Nevertheless, the impact of this program on certain corridors was still important. The SAR
identified the following risks: (i) deficiencies in the engineering studies to complete the planned works,
(which eventually led to developing better guidelines and terms of reference for new subprojects); (ii) the
lack of an effective road maintenance management system; and (iii) poor planning and scheduling of civil
works. These factors had a significant impact on the implementation of planned works and resulted in cost
increases and completion delays, particularly for those works started under earlier Bank projects.
34.   Ant important project objective was to support the orderly transfer of roads from the national level
to the departments. The decentralization study was intended to develop a program tailored to the absorptive
capacity of the departments, and gradually build up institutional capacity. The scope and celerity of the
decentralization process, which was not foreseen at appraisal, exceeded these provisions. Although
INVIAS successfully transferred the administration of secondary roads to the departments, it became clear
that most of the receiving entities were lacking the managerial and technical capacity to effectively
undertake lproper maintenance of these roads. The fact that the pipeline at that time included a proposed



11
Bank operation (Dcpartmcntal Roads Projcct) to specifically address institutional and financial issucs of
the dcpartmcnts, dcflected further attention from this important mattcr.9
35.    Bank appraisal detailed the need to assess the cnvironmental impact of the road and rivcr
components, and build cnvironmcntal capacity within MOPT. Establishment of a properly-staffcd
Environrnental Unit was a condition of loan effectiveness and undertaking an environmental assessmcnt
was a condition for disbursing funds for the river dredging and training component. The terms of rcference
agreed at negotiations were a novelty for the extensive use of alternative analyses."0 Passage of the
Environmental Law and creation of the Ministry of Environment (MOE) during project implementation,
established more stringent requirements (e.g., environmental permits, use of borrow pits, slope treatments),
which increased the cost of most of the road works. These risks could not have been forcseen at appraisal.
36.    Project Supervision. Satisfactory. Just after loan signing, GOC issued by end-December 1992
more than sixty decrees that abolished, restructured, fused or created various public entities. (para. 19) At
that stage, Bank management agreed that the reform objectives were important, meriting support, even
though the reforms would entail significant short term costs and delays in preparation and implementation
of Bank projects. In varying degrees, the reform decrees affected implementation of 13 (or about 70
percent) of the projects in the portfolio at that time. Bank management decided to restructure the project to
accommodate the new institutional set up created by the enactment of Decree 2171, and include, inter alia,
provisions to extend the loan to FVN and its successor INVIAS, and appraise the new organization once it
was in place. Despite the ensuing difficulties in project implementation, this decision was largely vindicated
by the events that unfolded.
37.    Having to formally appraise the capacity of INVIAS to execute the project put the institutional
issue at the center of Bank supervision efforts and enhanced opportunities to deepen the dialogue with the
Borrower. The project was rated unsatisfactory between 1994-1995 because of: (i) slow progress in
overcoming the institutional and operational bottlenecks of the previous organization, as corrective
measures had been identified but not yet instituted in the new organization; (ii) weak project management
capacity, as cost increases and delays continued with the transfer of works contracts to INVIAS; and (iii)
inadequate project supervision by Government, as the Performance Plan was not being used to monitor
project progress and discuss relevant issues. Identification of a follow-up Bank project was delayed until
INVIAS could demonstrate satisfactory progress with the project. In 1996 INVIAS had made significant
progress in building its institutional capacity as well as in project implementation to justify upgrading the
project rating to satisfactory. The ratings, however, were kept unsatisfactory for about six months until the
adoption of improved practices by INVIAS proved to be sustainable. The ratings were then changed from
unsatisfactory to satisfactory and maintained until project closing at the end of 1997. The project ended
with the need to carry over road subprojects staxted under previous loans. Two indications of how Bank
assistance in Colombian road sector affected projects in the pipeline involved the support of private sector
involvement through BOT-type arrangements; a new project presently under identification would improve
transport conditions of two strategic road corridors through public-private partnerships, and further
strengthen the managerial and financial capacity of INVIAS.
38.    Due to the unsatisfactory ratings, the project and the quality of Bank supervision were subject to
periodic audits by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG). In March 1997, a QAG report concluded
that continued unsatisfactory ratings had reflected realism of close supervision, and that the supervision
9  After long delays in project preparation, a Departmental Roads Project was finally approved by IDB in December 1997
10 The study was used as a case study at a Regional Seminar in Cartagena jointly held by MOPT and the Bank



12
cffort was satisfactory, with kcy issucs and problems handlcd at task management/division chief lcvcls. I I
Due to rcsource constraints, thcsc reviews did not claborate on possiblc options and stratcgics that could
have been helpful for the supcrvision tcam. Anothcr review undcrtaken as part of the annual rcvicw of
portfolio performance in the transport sector concluded that close and adaptablc supervision, coupled with
strong Bank management proved crucial in enabling this project to make a positive contribution to futurc
prospects in the sector.
39.    An estimated 122 staff weeks and eight missions to Colombia were used to supervise the project
and progress of the Colombian road sector reforms. Cornerstones of the supervision efforts were the
continuity of Bank supervision team throughout implementation, its focus on institutional development,
flexibility in adjusting the scope of project components to accommodate priorities emerging from the
reforns, and strong management support. Supervision reports carefully highlighted key reform issues and
corrective measures agreed upon. Bank missions participated in three Provial seminars, contributing to the
furthering of the reform agenda and enhancing partnerships with other organizations (e.g., IRF-GTZ).
F.     Borrower Performance
40.    Project Preparation. Deficient. Project preparation, occurred simultaneously with the decision to
open and modernize the public sector in Colombian, and reform the transport sector. While government
agencies (i.e., DNP) were outlining a reform program for transport, MOPT acted as if the reforms would
not affect the project and was surprised by the magnitude of the changes that followed. MOPT carried out
project preparation following parameters similar to those applied in previous lending operations, and the
works identified in the project were included in the Plan Vial de Aperfura 1990-1994. The project included
the following objectives: (i) institutional strengthening for MOPT (e.g. staff training, technical assistance,
and studies); (ii) acquisition of maintenance equipment for MOPT field districts; and (iii) rehabilitation and
paving of road segments distributed along the 25,000 km-network, including about 44 road subprojects
whose consitructions had started under previous Bank projects but not yet completed; and (iv) dredging and
training of the Magdalena River, which was included in order to restore year-round navigation.
41.    Project Implementation. Satisfactorv. INVIAS actively worked toward overcoming the
institutional ambiguity caused by the reform process and addressing critical operational deficiencies
inherited from MOPT/FVN despite the difficulties manifested during project implementation. INVIAS was
able to maintain consistency in its senior management despite the disruptive changeover from MOPT/FVN,
(as an example from 1994-1998, there was a single Executive Director in INVIAS compared to five
Ministers in MOT. INVIAS also had to manage cost increases and delays in the investment and
institutional components of the project. Until mid-1995, INVIAS had not yet put in place a strategy for the
programming and delivery of maintenance services entirely by contract and without support from the field
districts, which were dismantled later that year. The situation was further compounded by the fact that
INVIAS had to deal with the problems inherited from its predecessor-a road network in accelerated
deterioration and inefficient contract administration practices grounded on inadequate legislation. These
problems were eventually overcome once the improved practices permeated down through the organization.
The strong leadership and continuous commitment exercised by INVIAS senior management was critical to
the success.
QAG. "'Ilhe Quality of Supervision ofthe 50 Largest Projects at Risk: A QAG Assessment". March 24, 1997. TWUTD. "Annual Report on
Portfolio Perfonnance - Transport Sector". August 1997



13
42.   INVIAS made good use of thc institutional strengthening and training componcnts includcd in the
project. Owncrship in carrying out the programs was noteworthy in the following threc areas: (i) technical
assistance for strategic planning and governance, which helped INVIAS definc policies and plans at scnior
management levels, institute periodic accountability checks, and monitor progress in removing operational
bottlenecks; (ii) training programs for the development of technical and managerial skills, e.g. INVIAS
introduced maintenance contracts that integrated pavemcnt and road services adapted from the contracts
and technologics used in Spain, shortly after a delegation attended training courses in that country; and (iii)
consultant management services to increase commercialization of INVIAS operations. This program
included improving planning and market assessrnent capabilities, and building systems for program, project
management, human resources, and financial management.
43.    The systematic use of the Performance Plan was intended to strengthen government supervision of
MOPT/FVN, and its successor, INVIAS. Performance Plans were in vogue in 1992, as similar plans had
been prepared for the port and rail subsectors. Initial enforcement of the plan became a police exercise,
with auditors concentrating on reviewing day to day payments and work certificates, which was not the
intended purpose of the plan. The Plan defined MOPT obligations, with physical and financial targets for
the investment program. Early in its application, it became clear that these targets were impossible to
achieve because treasury funds were not being r eleased as planned, and institutional weaknesses in MOPT
were too severe to meet the performance targets defined in the Plan. Since the budget appropriations were
not stable, planning authorities wanted MOPT 1.o adjust the targets on the basis of the funds being released,
which was not viable due to the long gestation process of road projects. 12
44.    From 1995 onward, oversight responsibilities and periodic evaluations were conducted jointly by
DNP and INVIAS, and the results of these reviews submitted to CONPES. In March 1995, CONPES
recommended various changes in the administration of financial resources, operations, contracting out of
road work, concessions, environmental management and INVIAS institutional strengthening. These
recommendation were similar to those advocated by the Bank. Later that year, another CONPES report
outlined the progress of INVIAS under its road investment and institution building programs. In September
1997, a CONPES report confirmed a continued and significant improvement in the areas of: (i) revising
procedures for contracting out works; (ii) designing a new toll collection program on national roads; (iii)
developing a strategy for achieving full cost-recovery in the sector; (iv) continuing the development of the
Provial maintenance program and preserving naLtional road assets; and (v) contracting out an extemal
consulting firm to strengthen the institutional capacity of INVIAS.'3
45.    At project completion, INVIAS compli;mce with loan covenants was satisfactory, albeit with many
delays. Due to the disruptive changeover, it was inevitable that project implementation would be delayed.
Non compliance of loan covenants was, however, limited to the establishment of a charge system for the
river transport works. Although the component stipulating the dredging of the River Magdalena was
eliminated from the project in 1993, MOT undertook the planned works in the river, but not the
improvement to port facilities.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
46.    Overall Rating. Satisfactory. Project implementation took place during far-reaching institutional
reforms in the transport sector, sudden substitution of executing agencies, elimination of the river ports
12 The Implementation Plan for both road, rail, etc. were initially promising, but gradually lost support.
13 CONPES Report #2949, "Avances del Plan Nacional de Desarollo en el Sector Transporte," Bogota, Colombia, September 1997



14
component, modifications in thc institutional strcngthcning component, and completion delays and cost-
ovcrruns in thc implemcntation of road subprojects. Thcsc mitigating factors led to a lcngthy transition
pcriod, which had a significant impact on project implemcntation. The physical targcts dclincated in thc
SAR and achieved by the project contributed significantly to thc cxpansion and rehabilitation of the road
network14 An cconomic analysis based on 15 sample subprojects demonstrated an avcrage internal ratc of
return of 35.6 percent, slightly lower than the 38.0 percent predicted in the SAR for these subprojects
(Table 9). It must be noted, however, that the majority of subprojects experiences cost overruns, inadcquate
project design, difficultics in land acquisition, environmental considerations, limited local government
funds, civil unrest, and severe weather. In retrospect, implementation of the physical works would likely
have been smoother if fewer works were undertaken, especially during the reform period. Greater priority
should have been given to national roads and facilitating the movement of tradable goods.
47.    Institutional Development Impact. The project provided several important contributions for the
development of the road sector in Colombia. In particular, the project supported the development of ncw
sector policies, assisted MOPT and later INVIAS in developing an investmnent plan for the national road
network, developing the system for environmental management, promoted private sector participation, and
supported strengthening institutional capacity. In regard to the latter, the technical assistance component of
the project has gradually turned the newly-formed INVIAS into an effective and functioning institution as
its capacity to manage and prepare projects has steadily improved. These accomplishment are noteworthy
given the dlifficult conditions manifested during implementation, and the recent establishment of INVIAS.
The road rehabilitation projects administered by INVIAS were completed on-time, albeit with some cost
increases. Sustainability issues are being addressed by the institutional strengthening studies, which
provided useful prescriptions for building capacity, improving financial autonomy, and introducing
conmmercial practices.
48.   Institutional strengthening initiatives in support of the decentralization program demonstrated
mixed results. The transfer of secondary roads to the departments markedly improved the condition of the
national road network and the road system administered by INVIAS is now a well-defined network of trunk
roads, and transport corridors for the rapid movement of tradable goods. Decentralization also improved
resources utilization, which in the past had been spread too thin to satisfy regional balances. However, the
relatively poor condition of secondary roads is cause for concern. Departmental road agencies typically
lack the necessary resources and are characterized by weak administrative and technical capacity. Due to
the ambiguous institutional roles of FCV and FNCV, the administration of secondary roads has been
placed in institutional limbo.
H.    Future Operations
49.    A number of follow-up actions are needed to deepen the reform efforts and ensure their long-term
ensure sustainability. These actions would support increased private participation in road management and
financing, and support increased institutional strengthening of INVIAS, MOT, and departments.
50.   INVIAS Institutional Strengthening. Although INVIAS has slowly adapted to its role as the lead
agency in administering the national road network, recent diagnostic studies have indicated the need to
further strengthen institutional capacity to ensure long-term sustainability. An independent consultant
identified ithe following priorities: (i) revise multi-year investment plans to include social-economic criteria;
(ii) incorporate new contracting and contract management methods; (iii) improve financial practices; (iv)
14 Some of these roads were transferred to the department under the provision of the Transport Law.



15
incrcasc budget allocations to cnsurc a stable sourcc of funds, which has becn a kcy obstaclc; (v) furthcr
develop human rcsource capacity in projcct implcmcntation; (vi) improvc accounting and projcct
monitoring systems; and (vii) strengthen internal coordination and long-term strategic planning. INVIAS
has already begun to take action in cach of these arcas. Another important objective of future operations
would be supporting road maintenance activities through: (i) cstablishment of a dedicated road fund to
ensure that stable funding exists to carry out the maintenance and rehabilitation (but not the expansion) of
the national road network; (ii) incorporating priivate participation in the management of the Road Fund; and
(iii) establishing a tariff regime to obtain non-budgetary resources and increase collection of road user
charges to improve cost-recovery of the nationad, departmental, and municipal roads.'5 Future lending
operations would support INVIAS in the concession of the Bogota-Buenaventura El Vino-San Alberto,
and other road corridors crucial to economic development, the movement of tradable goods, and poverty
alleviation. In undertaking these initiatives, the institutional capacity of INVIAS will continue to increase.
INVIAS Performiance Indicators (1998 - 2002)
Objective                                         Indicator
Road Maintenance             *  Annual maintenance of 11,487 km
*  Periodic maintenance of 10,000 km
* 100% of the primary paved roads in good condition
*  80% of the primary gravel roads in good condition
* 85% of primary roads are paved
Truck Overloading            *  Limit to 65 percent the amount of overweight freight transported by trucks
* Construction of 20 new weighing stations
* Annual purchase of 30 mobile weigh scale
Road Signaling               *   90% of signals Dn the paved roads in good condition
*  70% of signals an unpaved roads in good condition
Bndge Maintenance            *  97% of bridges in good condition
* Routine maintenance of 1950 bridges
51.    MOT Institutional Strengthening. During the period in which the administrative and technical
capacity of INVIAS steadily increased, the institutional abilities within MOT continued to deteriorate.
MOT has focused on providing regulation for the road sector while placing little emphasis on sector
planning and intermodal transport. To effectively achieve its mandate as the lead governing agency for
transport, technical assistance is needed to: (i) increase the institutional capacity of MOT, e.g. clarify its
mission, improve asset use, maximize strengths, and overcome weaknesses; (ii) further elaborate transport
sector regulation, e.g. tariffs setting, service provision, access of private operators, and route definition;
(iii) revise Law 105 and Law 336 to better reflect specific conditions within the transport sector; and (iv)
improve oversight over transport sector agencies and project implementation.
52.    Institutional Strengthening of Departments. Project institutional strengthening initiatives have
shown the fewest results at the local level. Although the departments became responsible for managing over
13,000 km, this increase in obligations was not accompanied by a commensurate increase in administrative
and technical capacity nor financial resources. lThe lack of institutional clarity, poor coordination among
national financial and technical assistance programs, and the weak capacity of departmental SOPs has
impacted negatively on the condition of secondary roads. This outcome has led to political pressure to
reverse the decentralization process. For this reason, it is necessary to develop and strengthen the capacity
of local institutions and clarify institutions roles, Future lending operations could support the following
actions: (i) direct resources from the proposed Road Fund to the departments; (ii) undertake institutional
changes delineated in the departmental Provial and Infrastructure and Transport plans; a few departments
15  Cost recovery of road activities was stipulated in Law 105, Article 21.



16
havc slowly bcgun to follow INVIAS model of contracting out routine maintenance, rationalizc operations,
ctc.; (iii) provide tcchnical and administrativc assistance during the project cyclc (c.g. identification,
preparation, bidding, contract award, and cxecution; and (iv) improve coordination between MOT,
INVIAS, and FCV
I.     LESSONS LEARNED
53.    Although several lessons can be derived from the project, the most relevant for discussion are those
related to the major reforms against which the project was implemented, as well as Borrower and Bank
responses.
54.    Reforms Do Not Produce Immediate Results. Five years after the road sector reforms were
launched, the condition of the national road network, and its management, have improved dramatically. The
percentage of primary roads in good condition increased from 36 to 76 percent from 1994 to 1997, and
INVIAS has become a more capable and responsive institution compared to its predecessor, MOPT-FVN.
INVIAS now sees itself in transition, constantly improving, strengthening its human resources, emphasizing
client orientation, and introducing commercial practices to improve service delivery. However, several
obstacles had to be overcome to reach this point. The experience gained in the Colombian road sector
confirms that reform does not produce immediate nor all the intended results, but rather, opens the dialogue
and allows for the gradual cultural acceptance to change, assuming steadfast and sustained commitment to
reform. It is not enough to pass legislation, it is also necessary to internalize strategies and concepts, which
requires time. Colombia is not unique in being susceptible to political considerations, which often allow for
a short window of opportunity to institute radical changes, and develop a sound implementation strategy. In
a country with notable capacity for innovation but with a weak implementation record, such as Colombia,
this approach normally leads to few results. The transition period established in the reform decrees-one-
year to restructure MOPT into MOT and INVIAS, and a three-years to eliminate 25 field districts and
devolve secondary roads to the departments-were not commensurate with the magnitude of the changes. It
can also be argued that a longer transition creates the risk of reform slippage as changes in political climate
and "reform fatigue" can limit long-term commitment. In undertaking reform, it is necessary to ensure that
the proper legal and institutional structures are in place beforehand to facilitate the transition.
55.    Better Transition Planning Pays Off. During the first year of the transition period, the
restructuring of MOPT progressed slower than anticipated mainly for three reasons. First, MOPT had to
focus its efforts on designing and implementing a major retrenchment program, which encompassed
removing 10,100 jobs within MOPT. Second, there were no budget allocations to support a gradual phase-
in of the new organization while the old one was dismantled. Thus, no transition was possible in this
regard. Third, key elements of the reform required further legislation. The Transport and Procurement
Laws, essential to the reformns, also came at least one year later than initially planned after long discussions
in Congress. Since the redistribution of responsibilities in the road sector could not be undertaken solely by
Executive Decree as other aspects of the reforms, the framework for the devolution of roads became
available only after approval of the Transport Law. The Transport Law stated key concepts, some really
innovative, to enhance efficiency in the sector, including for example the framework for road concessions.
Some principles have not yet been fully implemented because of the weak uistitutional base (e.g., tariff for
services, public-private partnerships to manage departmental infrastructure), but they nevertheless provided
strategic directions to further the change process in the coming years as the performance of the road
agencies involved gains more credibility before national authorities. The transfer of roads to the
departments completed in 1995, turned into protracted negotiations over control of the related resources,
instead of focusing on building capacity through time-bonding programs as planned under the project.



17
Many dcpartmcntal govcrnments exprcssed concern that the level of funding that would become availablc
through the Road Cofinancing Fund establisheid by the rcform decrees would not match thc expandcd
responsibilities. The financial mechanisms to support the transfer should havc becn clearly defined in
advance to avoid this risk and emphasize institiational building. The financial incentives added later (one
time contribution per kIn) were an attractive means to promote the transfer but did little to ensure the
sustainability of the process. While GOC is now providing direct assistance to the departments under a
project financed with IDB, INVIAS has rightly acknowledged that strengthening the departments' capacity
for sustainable road maintenance is a key priority for the sustainability of the reforms. A better planned
transition could have avoided time consuming negotiations and increased prospects for sustainability on the
basis of: (i) putting in place from the on-set a clear financial mechanism, with resources matched to the
responsibilities transferred through secured sources of funding; and (ii) making available a flexible,
demand-driven training program centered around the most critical element for sustainability (road
maintenance in this case).
56.    Strong Leadership and Involvement To Manage Change. During its first three years of
existence, INVIAS was overwhelmed by the profound changes in the sector; starting as a new institution,
dismantling the field districts and force accouni: capacity, transferring nearly half the road network to the
departments, implementing strategies for contracting out operations, and completing on-going contracts
inherited from MOPT/FVN. Within this context, INVIAS had to address the problems inherited from its
predecessor-a deteriorating road network, and inefficient contractual practices. High expectations from
Govemrnent authorities and the public at large to improve the condition of road network had to be
counterbalanced against the required time for new organization to complete the backlog of road works. This
transition could have failed or been more trauniatic if not for the strong leadership and continuous
commitment exercised by its senior managemerLt. From 1994 to 1995, there were at least five changes at
the ministerial level, while INVIAS was run by the same Executive Director. INVIAS implemented a
retrenchment program that was successful because it centered around employee needs, e.g. immediate
severance paymnents, diverse retraining opportunities, and generation of employment opportunities inside
the sector. Strong leadership, open communication with staff, steady commitment, and attention to
personnel issues were essential.'6
57.    Emphasizing Performance Rather Than Organizational Structure. The organizational
structures of MOT and INVIAS should have been developed after first defining the principles and building
blocks of the reorganization, rather than by last-minute decrees. INVIAS had to revise its institutional
framework several times until the desired structure was achieved. The present structure directs the vision of
staff and managers towards of performance rather than individual tasks. In particular, a sound structure is
a pre-requisite to organizational health, but the real test of a healthy organization is the performance of its
staff. Improved business practices were identified as best practices early in the reform process, these
initiatives worked only when INVIAS strengthened its human resource base, e.g. an ambitious program to
certify managers. During the frequent changes that characterized the transition stage, the overlapping of
institutional responsibilities was common among units, creating confusion among staff as to operating
procedures and reporting relationships. This confusion affected its interactions with external parties.
INVIAS reviewed several aspects of its organizational structure and business processes when it began to
emphasize "service to road users." Looking at the organization from the perspective of end-users led to
greater attention to specific aspects of its operations that have direct interaction with its customers (e.g.,
road users, regional government and non-goveniment organizations, etc.). This perspective, for example,
16 Senior management within INVIAS has predicated and put to work the principle that the Head must head (lead) the change process, where
involvement must substitute mere participation. The difference bclween senior participation and involvement in the process is illustrated by the
following example: in a ham with eggs meal, the hen participated putting an egg but the hog got involved.



18
highlighted the rolc of the microcntcrpriscs in road maintcnancc, thc serviccs most dircctly linked to road
usage. Thus, a ncw organizational structure must bc easily understood by the staff involved in day to day
operations, and by those who intcract with it.
58.    Mlaintaining a Balanced View of Institutional Needs While Fighting Fires. Despite the limited
involvement of MOPT in designing the reform and that the project was not specifically design to support
these initiatives, the project objectives remained relevant throughout the reform process. Loan signing
occurred almost simultaneously with the enactment of major sector reforms, which affected nearly 70% of
the Bank portfolio in Colombia. The confluence of events led the Bank to consider canceling the project,
postponing effectiveness until the capacity of INVIAS could be appraised, or revising the project to
accommodate the changes and name INVIAS as the new implementing agency subject to satisfactory
review. The Bank opted to take the latter approach as it would have the greatest positive impact given the
circumstances. Despite implementation difficulties, this decision was largely vindicated by the events that
unfolded. Formal evaluation of the ability of INVIAS to execute the project put institutional issues at the
center of supervision efforts, and enhanced opportunities to deepen the dialogue with the Borrower. This
decision was predicated on the basis that the new organization would perform better than MOPT/FVN,
especially in view of the policies being adopted and the level of commitment of INVIAS management to
carry those policies throughout the organization. In the end, the project effectively addressed the underlying
factors in the sector without overwhelming the absorptive capacity of the implementing agency. Delaying
loan effectiveness until a full appraisal of INVIAS was undertaken would not have been a practical solution
given the time needed to complete the announced reforms.
59.    Establishing Strategic Partnerships to Increase Institutional Capacity. The experience gained
with this project demonstrates the catalytic effect of establishing strategic partnerships to build up
institutional capacity. The Bank can play a key role in this area, but has often begun initiatives and only
discontinue these efforts by limiting associated budgets. In 1992, the Bank and several institutions in LAC
launched the Provial initiative, a program consisting of policy and technical seminars to redirect the
attention of road agencies in LAC countries toward increased road maintenanec. Periodic seminars have
since been organized under the sponsorship of Borrowers, the Pan-American Institute of Highways, IRF-
GTZ, local universities and research institutes. Colombia became a partner in this program from the
beginning.'7 The extent in which this initiative contributed to INVIAS maintenance strategy is illustrated by
the fact that INVIAS own maintenance action plan has been called Provial-Colombia (para. 10), which
builds on contributions made by some of the organizations that actively participated in the programn.
17
Three seminars were held in Colombia in 1993, 1995 and 1997, with Bank staff participating in all of them. The latter, the first Provial for the
Americas, prDmpted a thorough discussion of institutional reforms in LAC and the use of contract maintenance and concessions.



19
PART I. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial    Partial        Negligible       Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies
Sector policies                               I
Financial objectives            /
Institutional development       I/
Physical objectives             I
Poverty reduction                                             V
Gender concerns                                                                   /
Other social objectives                                                           /
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                       /
Private sector development      /
B. Project Sustainability           L                   Unlikely               Uncertain
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance                                  /
Appraisal                                               /
Supervision                                             /
D. Borrower Performance       Highly Satisfg ctory    Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                                                                    /
Implementation                                          /
Covenant compliance                                     /
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome         Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
l__________________________    Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfacto
I . ... '.-~~~~



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan /(Credit Title                   Purpose                 Month/Year of            Status
I   Approval
Preceding Operations
Rural Roads Sector
1. First Rural Roads  Project, Support FNCV's 1981-84 program for  March 1980      Completed June 1986
Loan 1966-CO                rural roads construction and rehabilitation
and improve FNCV's managerial
performance
2. Rural Transport Sector   Support 1986-92 Investment and        July 1982        Completed December
Project, Loan 2668-CO       maintenance program and improve                        1992
FNCV's institutional efficiency
3. Second Rtural Roads Sector  Expand markets and reduce poverty by  January 1990  Completed December
Project, Loan 3157-CO       helping define road management functions,               1995
implement key policies, consolidate
positive institution-building advances and
support FNCV's 1990-93 investment and
maintenance program.
Agriculture Sector
1. Second Integrated Rural    Construction of about 700 Km. of rural    June 1982  Completed June 1990
Development Project, Loan    roads and improvement of 400 Km. FNCV
2174-CO                     carried out the roads component of this
loan.
2. Rural Development
Investment Program, Loan    Construction of about 800 Km. of roads,   July 1990    Completed June 1996
3250-CO                     improvement of 516 Km. FNCV carried
out the roads component of this loan.
Highways Sector
1. Seventh Highway Project,   Rehabilitation of 978 Km. priority roads,   June 1977  Completed
Loan 1471-CO                improvement of road maintenance and
transport management
2. First Highway Sector     Upgrade the transport system, adjust sector April 1992  Completed December
Project, Loan. 2121-CO      policies, strengthen MOPT highway                      1988
management capacity
3. Second Highway Sector    Improve MOPT internal efficiency,     June 1987        Completed December
Project, Loan 2829-CO       implement policy reforms in the transport              1993
sector, and upgrade the condition of the
highway network                                                                l
Following Operations
Urban Transportation
Bogota Urban Transport      Priority project investments in support of  April 96   On going
Project Loan 4021 -CO       the transport strategy and institutional
reforms adopted by the local authorities                                 i    l



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned       Date actual / Latest
I _____________________________________ _ .        ...estim                   ate
Identification                                                            05 / 90
Preparation                           =
Appraisal                                                                 05 191
Negotiations                                                              01 / 92
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                        03 / 92
Signing
Effectiveness                                                           12 /16 92
First tranche release (if applicable)                                                   I
Midterm Review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                12 /31/ 96            06 / 30 /97
Loan closing                                     06 / 30 / 97           12 / 31 /97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements, Cumulative and Actual
FY 93    FY 94    FY 95    FY 96    FY 97    FY98
Appraisal Estimate              72.2     156.4    219.0    251.3        266.0     266.0
Appraisal Revised Estimate      N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A
Actual                         45.9       70.1    154.0    205.5        240.1     265.9
Actual as % of Estimate'        63.8      44.8      70.3       81.8      90.3      99.9
Actual as % of Revised          N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A
Date of final disbursement                         15 May 1998
1.    The loan will closed with an unused balance of 1,381.24, which will be canceled.



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation Indicators in            Estimated               Actual
SAR/President's Report                                                                l
Completion of roads initiated under prior Bank
loan and FVN own funds:
Rehabilitation                                  492 Km. lI               490 Km.
Paving                                          545 Km. 1/               520 Km.
Total                                          1,037 Km.ll              1,010 Km.
New construction projects                            62 Km. l/I               41 Km.
New reh.abilitation projects                         270 Km.I/               162 Km.
Maintenance                                               N/A                 165 Km.
Bridge construction, rehabilitation and repair
Repair of bridges                                  2,284 m.
Reconstruction of bridges                            146 m.
Construction of new bridges                          779 mn.                507 m.
Road safety
Vertical signs                                   22,600 units         26,000 units 2/
Road markings                                    2,900 Km.               4,200 Km.
Road barriers                                          N/A               12,500 ml.
1/ Estimated in Plan de Desempeilo
2/ Estimated by INVIAS (1994 through 1997)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable)



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose defined at appraisal              Status                  Impact of Study
/redefined                                        l
I___________________                   Studies initially i cluded  in Project
Decentralization     Ensure that the transfer of national   Completed. Transfer of national Study identified major areas
Study                roads to the departments takes into   roads to regional governments  for the institutional
account the absorptive capacity of    went ahead without major  strengthening of the
each department and also to supervise planning. Transfer was defined  Departments
the initial stages of implementation of before the end of the study.
the decentralization program  _                               _-
Road Construction    Analyze existing constraints to   Not executed
Study                improving management and
efficiency in the construction incdustry
including regulatory environment,
financing, technology and trainiin
Performance of       Follow up on pavement research    Completed. Major             Some elements being used in
Materials and Road   started by the U. of Cauca. Study  recommendations adopted by    pavement design
Pavement Study       shall cover evaluation of road    INVIAS a part of a national
materials behavior, environmental    pavement policy.
factors, pavement performance and
testing and cost-effective solutions to
! _________________   pavement programs
Engineering          Incorporate the results of the taskc  Completed with INVIAS funds. Minimal until now. Not yet
Guidelines           force on technical specifications and   Results and new design criteria  adopted by INVIAS. Revised
standards for road geometric design   presented at recent seminar  guidelines are expected to be
. _______________     ______________________           ______________________          distributed    by    M ay    1998
___________________              Technical Assistarice in tially included in project
Developing and       To establish a systematic multi-year  Institutional reform of the  Not applicable
Implementing Road   budget and performance, define     Transport Sector prevented
Maintenance System   performance criteria, organize    execution of full content of
maintenance activities including  TOR Major studies for roads
maintenance by contract, overview    and bridges administration and
implementation of the plan and   Roads Administrators scheme
equipment management system end   adopted by INVIAS were
train MOPT personnel             contracted independently under
new TOR (see Main Studies and
Technical Assistance initially
not included in project)       _
Technical Assistance ini tially included in project
Standards for        Supervise work of the task force  Several pavement investigations Some elements being used in
Pavement Structural  created by MOPT to develop        were conducted by INVIAS and  pavement design
Design               pavement guidelines for road des,ign  financed by this loan
Supervision of Road   Design upgraded supervision      Transportation sector reform  Not applicable
Works                procedures and prepare a project  and the creation of INVIAS
supervision manual for MOPT      prevented execution of study
under MOPT. INVIAS
contracted parts under different
I __________________  __________________________       studies  &     technical assistance
Management           Carry out the implementation stage of Completed.                Some elements being used.
Information System    detailed design of a executive
_Management information system t,



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose defined at appraisal            Status                  Impact of Study
/redefined                                                                  l
Main Studies and Technical Assistance initially not included in Pro ect
Institutional        Institutional strengthening      Completed                   Some recommendations
Strengthening of the                                                              implemented by INVIAS.
Construction Sub                                                                  Supervision Manual to be
Directorate                                                                       adopted by INVIAS
Improvement and      To evaluate condition of road surface  Completed             Availability of this
Maintenance of Road  of national roads (IRI measurements)                         information has been
Infrastructure                                                                    fundamental in HDM model
evaluations
Final Design Studies   New design studies to incorporate  Completed               Availability of studies and
for the Tobiagrande-  high geometric specifications                               realistic construction costs
Puerto Salgar Road   for the construction of this road                            were a major issue in the
Concession Project                                                                successful award of the
concession
Design and           Establish roads and bridges      The bridge program was      Bridge program is currently
Implementation of    administration systems to improve    successfully completed and  being used by INVIAS.
Road and Bridge      maintenance programming.         tested. The roads program has
Administration                                        not yet been approved by
Systems                                               INVIAS.
Study           Purpose defined at appraisal I            Status                 Impact of Study
redefined                                        I
Main Studies and Technical Assist ace initially not included in Pro ect
Road User Charges    A follow up of a previously bank  Completed. In order to finance   Recommendations have been
Study                financed study. The objective was to  road maintenance the study  widely presented but political
identify and propose adequate new    recommended the creation of a  acceptance in the near future
financing sources to guarantee road   national gas surcharge and an  is dubious in face of incoming
maintenance at the national, regional access charge for vehicle  elections. New government
and local levels. Also included was   utilization. Both sources to be   will certainly consider these
the analysis of the required     distributed among regional  recommendations
institutional framework          governments through a new
dedicated Roads Fund to be
administrated by the private
sector
Analysis and Studies   Strengthening of the following areas: Completed.            Recommendations have been
for the Institutional   finances, planning, bidding,                               approved by INVIAS.
Strengthening of    information systems and human                                 Implementation requires
INVIAS               resources                                                     major institutional reform.
Preparation of Basic  Studies and information analysis  First three studies successfully   Preliminary results are
Information for      include the updating of (1) Meplan   completed. Fourth study nearly  expected by June. If
Updating the National model parameters (2) Model's    completion. MT has now the    satisfactory results may be
Transportatiorn      computerized system (3) Inter    necessary elements to update    used by next government in
Master Plan (NTMP)  regional passenger movements (4)    NTM. An additional ccintract  defining transportation
Institutional framework required to   is under way to run the model   policies and projects
handle NTMP                      and test hypothesis
Traffic Demand       Analyze current traffic conditions and On going               Not applicable. It has been
Analysis for the     projections on major roads and                                proposed that traffic on the
National Roads       corridors. Emphasis on eventual                               Bogota-Buenaventura corridor
Network              concession projects                                           be tested with this model.



25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose defined at appraisal             Status                Impact of Study
l           g            re~~~~~~ ~ ~~derined                            I
Main Studies and Technical Assistance initially not included in Pro ect
Institutional       Transfer INVIAS technology and    Studies completed in Caldas,   Recommendations of regional
Strengthening of     experience in road administration and  Santander, Cauca, Risaralda    studies are being considered
Regional Roads       maintenance (Provial) to the     and Meta. Despite the      by new regional
Administration       departments.                    importance of these studies,    administrations. Some SOPs
(Department                                           most former regional       being transformed into
PROVIALs)                                             administrations did not    contract oriented entities with
consider recommendations   fewer personnel and no
policies/when elaborating the   equipment
Department Infrastructure and
_____ _  Transportation Plan
Economic and        Review current practices and assist    Completed             New concession projects were
Financial Analyzes   INVIAS in economics and financial                           reviewed and a Concessions
for the Concessions   evaluations                                                Second Phase Program
Sub Directorate                 _                                                defined
Bituminous Materials Test available materials and define    Completed            Some elements being used for
and Pavement         guidelines for pavement design                              pavement design
Analysis                                           _
Additional Studies,                                   Completed                  Designs approved by INVIAS.
Minor Designs and                                                                Construction works under
Supervision                                    _                                 way



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
Category          Appraisal Estimate    Revised Estimate    Actual Estimate
_________        _ .I USS M)                  1USS M I__USSM
Local Loan  Total Local Loan  Total Local Loan  Total
Civil 'Works              120.4  180.6 301.1  165.1  247.7  412.8  162.9  244.4 407.3
Roads                   88.8  133.2 222.0   N/A   N/A   N/A  160.6  240.9 401.5
Bridges                  3.9    5.8   9.7   N/A   N/A   N/A    2.3   3.5   5.8
River training          10.6   16.0  26.6      0      0      0     0      0      0
Road Equipment               0   30.5  30.5       0    5.5   5.5      0    0.8   0.8
Road Safety                  0    6.0   6.0       0    0.8   0.8   0.6   5.5   6.1
Institutional Strengthening  0.4    4.5   4.9   0.3  12.0  12.3   0.2  11.0  11.2
Technical Assistance       0    1.2   1.2      *      *      *      *     *      *
Studies                    0    1.2   1.2      *      *      *     *      *      *
Training local           0.4    0.6   1.0   0.3   0.6   0.9   0.2   0.8   1.0
Training abroad            0    1.1   1.1      0    0.7   0.7      0    0.5   0.5
Training aids              0    0.4   0.4      0      0      0     0      0      0
Consulting Services &      0      0     0      0   10.7  10.7      0    9.7   9.7
Technical Assistance                                    I
jPhysical Contingency      12.01  18.1  30.11    0       0      0      0     0      0
Price Contingency          15.2   26.3  41.5      0      0      0     0      0      0
LTotal                   | 148.0  266.0 41            266.0  431.4  163.7  261.7  425.4
* Inclulded with Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
N/A: not available
Note: Ihis table does not include disbursements not approved by the Bank.
Table 8B: Project Financing
=1                               -         ---                         -
Source            Appraisal Estimate  (US$M)   Actual Estimate    (US$M
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign         Total
Costs    Costs              Costs    Costs
Goverrunent (MOPT / INVIAS)      148.0        0    148.0    163.7         0            163.7
Bank                       I              266.01   266.01        0     261.7         261.7
Total __________________         148.0    2660    414.0    163.7        1.7           42
-12                              180    -           -6 --5



27
Table 9: Economic Cost and Benefits
Project                Type of      Execution Time        Project Cost (USS 000)      Internal Rate of Return (%)      Problems
Work           (months)                                                                     _  during
Planned   Actual  A/P   Planned   Actual  A/P  SAR   IRR(l) Actual  AISAR or 1  Execution
Puerto Araujo - Km. 57                    P          N/A       37   _        2,044    4,767  2.3  32.0              28.0          0.87  1, 2, 5, 7,9
Puerto Boyaca Km.57 - La Lizama           P          N/A       22 .          2,974    5,131   1.7  32.0             28.0          0.87  1,2,5,7,9
Puerto Boyaca Km. 81 - La Lizama Km. 102  P          N/A       24            2,238   4,625  2.1  32.0               28.0          0.87  1, 2, 5,7,9
San Juan - Km. 57                         P          NiA       12  =         2,163    1,033  0.5  32.0              28.0          0.87  1, 2,5, 7,9
Variante de la Dorada                     P             5      12   2.4      0.577   0.910   1.6  33.0    12.2   30.4             0.92       2. 6
Variante de Popayan                       P            18      21   1.2      5,151    3,758  0.7   N/A      N/A    20.8
La Plata - Paicol                        RH            18      15   0.8      5,911   6,786   1.1  N/A       38.0    35.0          0.92
ElTigre-Ponedera                         RH            18      19   1.1    12,007  21,857   1.8  N/A        28.0    16.0          0.57       1, 9
Poneiera - BaxTranuiiia                  Ri            1i8     18   1.0    11 645   20,U37   1.7   NIA      28.0    16.0          57.1       1, 9
Cuniaral - Rio Humea                     RH          N/A       29            3,136    3,922   1.3  46.0             51.9           1.1
Loboguerrero - Buga (Km. 54 - Km. 76)    RH             6      13   2.2      2,837    3,492   1.2  31.0             80.3           2.5
Loboguerrero - Buga (Km. 76 - Km. 108)   RH             6      20   3.3      3,390    3,813   1.1  31.0             80.3           2.5
Manglar - Cafhasgordas                    P            12      28   2.3      0,972    3,995  4.1  64.0              41.0          0.64     1, 6, 7
Monteria - Aeropuerto                     P            12      12   1.0      3,463    1,261  0.4  58.0             204.0          3.51
Carmen - Carreto                         RH            36      49   1.4      6,580   12,793   1.9  27.0             14.0         0.51          1
I~~~~~ . =                                                                          _ =.           .=            
Type of Work:   RH: Rehabilitation  P: Paving
IRR -1: laternal Rate of Return under initial conditions (time and cost) SAR: Appraisal's Internal Rate of Retun
Delay Causes: 1. Deficient project specifications (non existent studies, deficient studies, materials) 2. Land acquisition 3. Environmental Considerations 4. Contractual problems 5.
Contractors problems 6. Availability of local funds 7. Civil unrest (Social conflicts) 8. Community attitude and petitions 9. Climate and other external considerations



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Text    Covenant Status   Original    Revised                        Description of Covenant                             Comments
Reference    Type            Fulfillment Fulfillment |
Date        Date
Schedule 5    05       C    06/30/1993  06/30/1996  COMPLETE THE DOCUMENT ON ROAD TECHNICAL                   Technical specifications adopted by
_______                                              _______  SPECIFICATIONS UNDER PART B.1) (1) OF THE PROJECT            INVIAS on March 16, 1996
Schedule 5    05       C    06/30/1993  06/30/1996  COMPLETE THE DOCUMENT ON ROAD GEOMETRIC DESIGN  Submitted in March 1997 to the
STANDARDS UNDER PART B. I (E) (2) OF THE PROJECT         Technical Secretariat for review
Schedule 5    05       C     12/31/1993             COMIETE THE MANUAL ON ENGINEERING NORMS AND
GUIDELINES UNDER PART B.l (E) (3) OF THE PROJECT
Schedule 5    05       C    04/30/1993              ADOPT NEW PREQUALIFICATION GUIDELINES FOR CIVIL
WORKS BIDDING, SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK
Schedule 5    05     SOON   12/31/1993  06/30/1997  COMPLETE THE CIVIL WORKS SUPERVISION MANUAL               Under preparation through the
UNDER PART B. 1 (C) OF THlE PROJECT                      Technical Assistance in Supervision of
the Roan Construction. Draft manual
being revised
Schedule      5     05,11  04/30/1993               CARRY OUT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, UNDER TERMS OF
REFERENCE SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK, OF THE
l______                 _____  ____                   _______ BORROWER'S ROAD NETWORK
Schedule 05    05       C                            INSTALL AUTOMATiC TRAFFiC COUNTERS IN, AT LEAST, (1) All toll stations operated by NVAS
30% OF ALL TOLL STATIONS (11) 50% OF ALL TOLL            (64 in 1997) have automatic traffic
STATIONS; (M) 75% OF ALL TOLL STATIONS; (IV) IN ALL      counters or the installation of these
TOLL STATlONS                                             devices is well-advanced. Toll evasion
in 1996 dropped to about 0.8% from
2.5% in 1994
Schedule 5    05       C                            PUT INTO OPERATION: (1) 5 SETS OF PORTABLE WEIGHING
SCALES; AND (11) 8 ADDMONAL SETS OF PORTABLE
WEIGHNG SCALES
Schedule 5    05     SOON   12/31/1993  03/30/1997  COMPLETE THE PAVEMENT DESIGN UNDER PART B.l (B)    Final report elaborated by consultant.
OF THE PROJECT                                            Still under review
Schedule 5    05     SOON   12/31/1993              ESTABLISH AND MAKE OPERATIONAL THE                        Work in progress. through the
COMPUTARIZED MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                technical assistance in institutional
IUNDER PART B. 1 OF THE PROJECT                           building
Schedule 5    CP       12    06/30/1994  06/30/1996  CARRY OUT AND FURNISH TO THE BANK A STUDY TO              NVIAS selected ICONTEC, a
ADDRESS CONSTRAINTS IN THE PRIVATE ROAD                   Colombian NGO responsible for
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY                                     testing standards and quality control.
The TORs were revised to review the
industry's total quality assurance
practices and explore the possibility of
requiring in two-years IS09000
certification. The study xvill be
completed in three months and
-_-                            __    _______________________________________________     complemented  with  training
Status  C      -       Complied with                           SOON  a         Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD     -       Compliance after Delay                  CP      -       Complied with Partially
NC     -       Not Complied with                       NYD   -         Not Yet Due



29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Text    Covenant Status  Original    Revised               Description of Covenant                     Comments
Reference    Type        Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date      Date
Schedule 5    05    C    12/31/1994           CARRY OUT AND FURNISH TO THE BANK A STUDY TO      Carried out by the University of
EVALUATE PERFORMANCE OF ROAD MATERIALS AND       Cauca
PAVEMENTS
Schedule 5    05    C    12/31/1 993          COMPLETE AND FURNISH TO THE BANK FINAL
ENGINEERING DESIGNS FOR ALL ROADS ELIGIBLE
l_______ ________ ______                                  SUBPROJECTS REFERRED TO IN THE ELIGIBLE LIST                                 l
Schedule 5    06    C    04/30/1993           COMPLETE AND FURNISH TO THE BANK
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES TO BE APPLIED IN
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.02 (b)   01      C                         BORROWER TO OPEN AND MAINTAIN IN DOLLARS A
l______  _______                                          SPECIAL ACCOUNT IN BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
3.01 (b)    05,11    CD                      BORROWER TO CARRY OUT THE IMPLEMENTATION
PROGRAM SET FORTH IN SCHEDULE 5 TO THE LOAN
AGREEMENT
3.01 (c)  05,11,12   C                       BORROWER TO: (i) (A) FURNISH TO THE BANK AN       The progress made in the
UrPDAT  OF THEJ I991-1995 IwVIMNT  ROG, TIE      impiementation of the National
BORROWER'S PROG. OF ESTIMATED REV. AND EXP. FOR   Development Plan for the transport
THE UPCOMING 5-YEAR PERIOD, AND THE BORROWER'S  sector was reviewed recently by
INVSTMT PLAN FOR THE UP-COMING 5-YEAR PERIOD;    CONPES-DNP.
AND (B) INFORM THE BANK OF ANY INVSMT ESTIMATD
TO EXCEED S 10.000.000 EQUIV. & NOT INCLUDED IN THE
1991-1995 INVSTMT PROG. AND AFFORD THE BANK A
l______  l__l__| REAS.OPPTNTY TO COMMENT/ANY INVT
3.01    05,11,12   C                        (ii) REQUST APPROVAL FROM THE BANK FOR FINANCING
UNDER THE LOAN OF ANY SUBPROJECT NOT INCLUDED
________  I______  I_____ _  IN THE ELIGIBLE LIST; AND
3.01    05, 11, 12  CD                      (iii) CARRY OUT PART B OF THE PROJECT IN         The study on the local road
ACCORDANCE WITH TERMS OF REFERENCE               construction industry is underway
l______  l__l_| SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK                                                        X      _11
3.02      09      C                         BORROWER TO FURNISH TO THE BANK A REPORT ON THE
PROGRESS OF THE PROJECT, OF SUCH SCOPE AND DETAIL
AS THE BANK MAY REASONABLY REQUEST, INCLUDING
INTER ALA: (1) A SECTION DETAILING PROGRESS
lMPLEMENTATION OF EACH PROJECT COMPONENT N      ;
TBE PREVIOUS YEAR: AND (2) SPECIFICC AND JUSTIFIED
PROPOSALS FOR ADJUSTMENT IN PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION BASED ON THERESULTS OF THE
PREVIOUS YEAR
Status  C    -      Complied with                      SOON  -       Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD    -      Compliance after Delay             CP    ,      Complied with Partially
NC    -      Not Complied with                  NYD   -       Not Yet Due



30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Text    Covenant Status  Original   Revised                 Description of Covenant                        Comments
Section   T TFulfillment FulfiD_ment
_   Da:te      Date
l   3.03  09, 10    C                      (a) BORROWER TO HOLD ANNUAL REVIEWS W/THE BANK TO
FOCUS ON: (1) EVALUATION OF THE PROGRESS IN
EXECUTON AND ACHEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES OF THE
PROJECT; (2) DECENTRALIZATION OF THE NATL.RD.NTWK;
(3) ORGANZTL RESTRUCTNG OF THE BORRWR; (4)
ENVIRONMIL MTGTRY; (5) RD. USER CHGS POLICS AND
TEIR IMPLEMENTN; (6) 91-95 INVTM PROG (7) 91-95
RD.MAINT PROG. (8) ESTIM. AMOUNTS AVAIL. BY
BORROWER NEXT FIS. YR. P&RMP
3.03      05      C                        (b) ]F AS RSULT OF ANY OF THE ABOVE ANNUAL REVIEWS,
PROGRESS IN THE EXECUnON OR IN THE ACHVMT OF THE
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJ., OR ANY OF THE
AMNTESTIMATED PURSUANTTO PARA. (a) (8) OF THIS
SECTION, ARE NOT SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK, THE
BORROWER TO PROMPTLY TAKE OR CAUSE TO BE TAKEN
ALL SUCH REMEDIAL ACTION AS SHALL BE NECESARY FOR
THE ACHlVVMT OF SUCH OBJECTIVES OR FOR EFFICNT
EXCTN OF THE PRJ
3.04      05      C                        BORROWER TO: a) CARRY OUT THE 1991-1995 ROAD          Maintenance continued to improve in
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM IN CONFORMITY WrM                1997. The large amnount of funds
APPROPIATE FINANCIAL, TECHNICAL, ADMINISTRATIVE,     allocated for this purpose (about US$30
ENGINEERING, AND ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS AND         million) and the piloting of new
PRECTICES;                                           contracts (i.e., contratos integrales, C.
Re.Ma.) demonstrate the priority
assigned by INVIAS to maintaining the
national road network
l   3.04  04      C                        (b) PROVIDE OR CAUSE TO BE PROVIDED, IN A TIMELY
3l04      04      C                        MANNER, THE FUNDS, FACILTmES, SERVICES AND OTHER
RESOURCES REQUIRED FOR THE ROAD MAINTENANCE
l______   ______ _PROGRAM;
3.04      C                                (c) SUBMIT TO THE BANK AN UPDATE OF THE 1991-1995
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM AND THE BORROWERS
PROGM. OF ROAD MAINTENANCE FOR TiE UPCOMING FIVE-
__ _  __ _YEAR PERIOD; AND
3.04      09     CP                        (d) SUBMIT TO TiE BANK, EVIDENCE, SATISFACTORY TO     Only aggregate figures on maintenance
TBE BANK, OF TIE EXPENDITURES MADE IN RESPECT OF    expenditures are available
THE 1991-1995 ROAD MAINTENANCE PROG. IN THE PREVIOUS
YEAR AND THE AMOUNTS ALLOCATED FOR THE EXECUTION
OF SUCH PROGRAM IN THE THEN CURRENT FISCAL YR
Status  C     -      Complied with                      SOON -        Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD    -       Compliance after Delay             CP    -       Complied with Partially
NC    -       Not Complied witib                 NYD   -       Not Yet Due



31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Text   Covenant Status  Original    Revised                    Description of Covenant                             Comments
Section    Type         Fulfillment Fulfillment
I_Date        Date
3.05     05      CD   04/30/1993            BORRWR TO: (a) EMPLOY CONSULTANTS FOR THE                The study was completed under the TORs,
CARRYING OUT OF A STUDY TO DEFINE THE OPTIMAL SIZE   which were adjusted to focus on institutional
OF THE NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK AND THE APPROPIATE   building and training at the departmental
MECHANISMS FOR A GRADUAL AND PARTTAL TRANSFER OF  level. Roads were transferred by end 1995.
SUCH NETWORK TO THE DEPARTMENTS;                       INVIAS is providing TA to Department
SOPs upon request. The program has been
tailored to departmental needs through
direct participation of SOP staff. The
microenterprise system, successfully used by
INVIAS for routine maintenance, is being
considered by the Departments
3.05      12      C                         (b) DISCUSS WITH THE BANK THE FINDINGS AND
RCOMMENDAllONS OF THE STUDY AND, ON THE BASIS OF
SUCH DISCUSSIONS, FORMULATE AS MANY AClTON PLANS
AS SHALL BE REQUIRED, ALL TO BE SATISFACTORY TO THE
BANK INRESPECT OF THOSE ASPECTS WHICH, IN THE
%Jrir4iijiN OF' LinJ I lhIANI, AKE iXLrV>VAP4N IU  lit FKURJEC;I
3.05      12    SOON                        (c) IMPLEMENT EACH ACTION PLAN IN A MANNER, AND
UNDER A TMETABLE, SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK.
3.06     05      CD   06/30/1993            BORROWER TO: (a) EMPLOY CONSULTANTS, UNDER TERMS   The Directorate of Roads of Denmark has
OF REFERENCE SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK, FOR              fine tune the road management system, since
PURPOSES OF IMPLEMENTING A SYSTEM FOR ROAD             the computerized system is not yet fully
3.06_05, 12     MAINTENANCE;                                             operational.
3.06    05, 12    CP                        (b) ESTABLISH AND MAKE OPERATIONAL THE REFERRD          System is under implementation
CP___  _______             SYSTEM, IN A MANNER SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK.
3.08    05, 12    C                         BORROWER TO: (a) MAINTAIN AN ORGANIZAnONL               Appraisal of INVIAS was satisfactory after
STRUCTURE, WrTH FUNCTIONS AND ADEQUATE STAFF, FOR  reorganization of November 1995
____  _______               PURPOSE OF IMPLEMENTING THE PROJECT;
3.08    05,12    C                          (b) MAINTAIN THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
AND ENVIRONENTAL UNIT (EU) WITH FUNCTIONS,
STRUCTURE, STAFF AND PROV1DE FUNDS, FACILITES AND
OTHER RESOURCES REQUIRED FOR THE ADEQUATE
OPERATION OF PIU AND EU; AND
~  3.08  I        C                         (C) PROMPTLY INFORM THE BANK OF ANY PROPOSED
l= 1     'I,   -   -                J          1 CHANGES IN ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE.
Status  C      -      Complied with                        SOON  -        Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD     -      Compliance after Delay               CP      -      Complied with Partially
NC    -       Not Complied with                    NYD   -        Not Yet Due



32
*_______  _______Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Text   Covenant Status  Original    Revised              Description of Covenant                    Comments
Section    Type         Fulfillment Fulfillment
I               |  Date       Date   J
5.01 (a)           C                        BORROWER TO MAINTAIN RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS
ADEQUATETO REFLECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SOUND
ACCOUNTING PRACTICES ITS OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDMON, INCLUDING SEPARATE RECORDS
ANS ACCOUNTS TO REFLECT THE RESOURCES ANS
________        _______ EXPENDITURES IN RESPECT OF TBE PROJECT                                       l
3.08    05, 12    C                        (b) MAINTAIN THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
(PIU) AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL UNIT (EU) WITH
FUNCTIONS, STRUCTURE AND STAFF, AND PROVIDE THE
FUNDS, FACILITIES AND OTHER RESOURCES REQUIRED
FOR THE ADEQUATEOPERATION OF PIU AND EU; AND
3.08              C                        (C) PROMPTLY INFORM THE BANK OF ANY PROPOSED
X______ ______ ______              _______ CHANGES IN ITS ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE.
5.01 (a)           C                        BORROWER TO MAINTAIN RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS
ADEQUATETO REFLECT IN ACCORDANCE WrIH SOUND
ACCOUNTING PRACTICES ITS OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDmON, INCLUDING SEPARATE RECORDS
ANS ACCOUNTS TO REFLECT THE RESOURCES ANS
EXPENDITURES IN RESPECT OF THE PROJECT
5.01 (b)   01      C                        BORROWER TO: (i) HAVE ITS RECORDS, ACCOUNTS AND
FINANCIAL STATMTS, AND THE RECORDS AND
ACCOUNTS FOR THE SPECIAL ACCOUNT FOR EACH
FISCAL YR.AUDITED, IN ACCORDANCE WITH
APPROPIATE AUDrI1NG PRINCIPLES CONSISTENTLY
APPLIED, BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ACCEPTABLE TO
THE BANK
5.01 (b)    01    CD                        (ii) FURNISH TO THE BANK CERTIFIED COPIES OF ITS  The audit of the Project Accounts,
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR EACH YEAR AS SO       Special Account and SOEs for 1996
AUDITED, AND THE REPORT OF SUCH AUDIT BY SAID    have already been received, but
AUDITORS; AND                                  Contraloria de la Republica has not
yet submitted the audit of INVIAS's
l_________  ._________________________________________________   financial  statem ents
5.01 (b)    01     C                        (iii) FURNISH TO THE BANK SUCH OTHER INFORMATION
CONCERNING SAID RECORDS, ACCOUNTS AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS WELL AS THE AUDIT
THEREOF AS THE BANK SHALL FROM TIMEE TO TIME
REASONABLY REQUEST
Status C     -      Complied with                    SOON  -       Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD    -      Compliance after Delay           CP    .       Complied with Partially
NC    -      Not Complied with                NYD           Not Yet Due



33
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Text   Covenant  Status   Original    Revised                  Description of Covenant                         Comments
Section    Class         Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
6.01 (b)   12       C                         GURANTOR, BY ITSELF OR IN CONJUNCTION WITH ANY          Cost recovery has improved. The
OTHER COMPETENT AUTHORMTIES, TO PUT INTO EFFECT        current structure covers 105% of
DURING, 1992, 1993 AND 1994, AND MAINTAINED            maintenance and rehabilitation
THEREAFTER, ROAD USER CHARGES SUFFICIENT TO COVER   needs, and 94% if paving needs are
62%, 78% AND 100%, RESPECTIVELY, OF THE TOTAL COSTS OF added. The findings of the study on
MAINTENANCE, REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE Road-User Charges were presented
PUBLIC ROAD NETWORK (THE PORTION OF FUELS TAXES        at the PROVIAL Seminar held in
BELOWWBORDDR PRICES SHALL NOT BE TREATED AS A          Cartagena (September 17'19, 1997).
RD.USR.CHGE)                                           The recommendations include the
restructuring of the system and the
establishment of a Road Fund for
maintenance and rehabilitation for
the entire road system (national,
departmental and municipal levels)
2.01      04      CD                         GUARANTOR, THROUGH MOPT, TO CARRY OUT PARTS A.2, B.2 Works under execution
(d) AND b.3 (a) (8) AND (9) OF THE PROJECT AND PROVIDE
FUNDS, FACILITIES, SERVICES AND OTHER RESOURCES
l_ l            l         l          |REQUIRED FOR SUCH PARTS OF PROJECT
2.02      04       C                         GUARANTOR TO: (a) WHENEVER THERE IS REASONABLE
CAUSE TO BELIEVE THAT THE FUNDS AVAILABLE TO THE
BORRWR WILL BE INADEQUATE TO MEET THE ESTIMATED
EXPENDTRSREQUIRED FOR THE CARRYING OUT OF THE PROJ.
i OTHERS THAN PARTS A.2, B.2 (d) AND B.3 (a) (8) AND (9) a,
MAKE ARRANGEMENTS TO PROVIDE THE BORROWER WITH
l_l_L_| SUCH FUNDS
2.02      04       C                         (b) TRANSFER TO THE BORROWER THE NECESSARY FUNDS
REQUIRED TO MEET ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE ROAD
l_l_l_| MAINTENANCE PROGRAM;
2.02      09      CP                         (c) THROUGH CONFIS, SUPERVISE THE EXECUTlON OF          Though the Performance Plan is not
THEPROJECT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS AND            being used, annual CONPES
CONDMONS SET FORTH IN THE PERFORMANCE PLAN             documents are providing in-depth
evaluations of INVIAS. Last
l_________  l_____  l___________________________________________________           _ l  |evaluation     conducted  in   Sept.  1997
2.03    06,12      C                         GUARANTOR TO: (a) BEGIN EXECUTON OF PART A2 (A) AND
I |       | (b) OF PROJECT ONLY AFTER HAVING FURNISHED TO THE
l  l   l   | BANK: (I) A PROGRAM SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK, FOR
l  l   l   |        THE MAINENANCE OF THE MAGDALENA RVR.; AND (2) AN
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT STUDY, SATISFACTORY TO
THE BANK, OF MlGATORY ACnONS RELATED THEREOAND   l _              -     _I
Status  C     -      Complied with                       SOON           Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD    -       Compliance after Delay              CP     *      Complied with Partially
NC    -       Not Complied with                   NYD            Not Yet Due



34
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
|Agreement    Text    Covenant  Status   Original    Revised                           Description of Covenant                             Comments
Section     Class           Fulfillment  Fulfillment
l  ___   ___   __   Date                     Date
2.03        05       CP                           (b) CARRY OUT, IN A MANNER AND UNDER A TIMETABLE
SATISFACTORY TO IHE BANK, TIE MANTENANCE PROGRAM FOR
THE MAGDALENA RIVER AND TIE PLAN OF MMGATORY ACTIONS
2.04        05       C                            EXCEPT AS THE BANK SHALL OTHERWISE AGREE, PROCUREMENT
OF CONSULTANTS FOR PARTS B.2 (d) AND B.3 (a) (8) AND (9) OF THE
PROJECT TO BE GOVERNED BY PROVISIONS OF SECTION It OF
SCHEDULE 4 TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT                                                           l
2.05      05,12      C                            GUARANTOR TO EMPLOY AN EXPERT WITH EXPERIENCE AND
QUALIFICATIONS SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK
2.06        12       CD                           GUARANTOR TO: (a) PREPARE AND FURNISH TO THE BANK A PLAN
OF ACTION TO FACILITATE INTERNAIIONAL TRANSPTPROCEDURES
AND REGULATIONS, AND (b) CARRY OUT SUCH PLAN OF ACTION IN
_MANNER AND UNDER A TMETABLE SATISFACTORY TO THE BANK
3.01        12       CD                           GUARANTOR, THROUGH DNP, TO COMPLETE AND FURNISH TO THE
BANK AN ANALYSIS OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN USER
CHARGES AND ESTIMATED COSTS ATTRJBUTABLE TO EACH
VEHICLE TYPE, ALL IN ACCORDANCE WITH A METHODOLOGY
ACCEPTABLE TO THE BANK                           _
3.02        12       C                            GUARANTOR TO MAINTAIN THE POLICY WITH REGARD TO                  Prices of gasoline and diesel are
ADJUSTMENTS TO DIESEL AND OIL PRICES EXPRESSED THESECOND  in line with International border
PARAGRAPH OF LETrER No. 04122 OF NOV. 11, 1992 FROM THE         prices
GUARANTOR TO THE BANK
3.03        12       NC                           GUARANTOR TO PUT INTO EFFECT A REVISED SYSTEM OF                 The newly established
MAGDALENA RIVER USER CHARGES TO COVER THE GUARANTOR'S  "Corporaci6n del Rio
COSTS OF THE TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE FOR SUCH RIVER            Magdalena" has not yet set user
charges. The experience in
dredging the Magdalena River
suggest that a concession for
river maintenance and operation
.  may not be feasible, as initially
=       1       1       1               =                   __ _ __ _ _..__ _ __ _ __- __ _ __ _-_ _ __ _|_                  planned
Status  C      -       Complied with                         SOON  -        Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CD     -       Compliance after Delay                CP      -       Complied with Partially
NC     -       Not Complied with                     NYD   -         Not Yet Due
Covenant Type:                                                           7  =  Involuntary resettlement
I  =  Accounts/audits                                                   8  =  Indigenous people
2  =  Financial performance revenue generation from beneficiaries       9  =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
3  =  Flow and utlization of project funds                               10 =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1 -9
4  =  Counterpart funding                                                11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocations
5  =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency             12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/budgetary/institutional action
6  =  Environmental covenants                                           13 =  Other



35
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned                   Revised                          Actual
Weeks          USS          Weeks       USS         Weeks               USS 000
Through Appraisal       N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A                 33.1                   84.1
Appraisal-Board        N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A                  5.3                    12.7
Board-Effectiveness     N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A             _
Supervision          N/A           N/A           N/A        N/A                122.1                  293.6
Completion           NIA           N/A           N/A        NiA                  6.0                    8.4
Total             NIA           N/A           N/A        N/A                166.5                   398.8
Table 13: Bank Resources and Missions
-                    =  -__ _  . _ __ _
Stage of Project    Month/   Number of   Days    Specialized         Performance Rating      Types of Problems
Cycle          Year      Persons   in field   Staff Skills
represented
Implementatlon  Development
Status      Objectives
Throueb Appraisal   07/90         2          12       FA, BE           N/A           N/A             N/A
11/90        3         30       FA, HE           N/A            N/A             N/A
02/91        3         30       FA, HE           N/A            N/A             N/A
05/91        5         30    FA, BE, ES, C       NIA            N/A             N/A
Appraisal Through
Board Approval                                ___
N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A             NIA           N/A             N/A
N/A        NIA        NIA        N/A             N/A            N/A            NIA
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness
NIA        N/A        N/A        N/A             NIA           N/A             N/A
N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A             NIA            N/A            N/A
Supervision                                      _       ___
12/92        2            _     TE, BE             1             1
05/93        3            _   HE, TE, ES           1              1
09/93        6               TE, HE, FA,ES,        2              1      CC, PP, TP,FP
06/94        4                 TE, BE, C          U              S       CC, TAP
03/95        S                TE, HE, FA,         U              S       CC, TAP
____ _   _TS, C
03/96        6                 TE, HE, ES,         U             U       CC, PMP, PP.
__________   ___TS, C                            _ TP,TAP,SP,FP
02/97        3         33 _   TE, SE, TS           S
09/97        3         27      HE, ES, TS          S          _
Completion      __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ ___ _            _ _ _ _
09/97            E__           HE ES, TS                                _
04/98                     _       E HE C
Total                        _       _      _
Staff Skills: ES =  Environmental Specialist; TE = Transport Economist; TS = Transport Specialist; C =
Consultant; HE = Highway Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst
Problems: CLC: Compliance with covenants; FP: Financial Performance; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress;
PMP:Project Mgt. Progress PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress



36
Appendix A
COLOMBIA
MINISTERIO TRANSPORTE               INSTITUFO NACIONAL DE VIAS INVS)
TERCER PROYECTO SECTORIAL DE CARRETERAS (PRESTAMO 3453-CO)
Ayuda Memoria
1.     Una misi6n del Banco Mundial intgmda por los Sr. Ios6 Luis frigoyca, Juan Qubtuvo lMvicio
Ciellr y German Silva (Comr) vsis  Colombi ste l 14 y 25 de sepre de 1991, co   el iEn de
(i) paricipar en el Seminario PROVAL de Ins Am6ricas, (ii) supervisar la implzuntaci6a del Trew
Proyect Sectorial de Carretias (Prisnmo 3453-CO), y (ii) acordar las tareas para realizar el nme de
Termimaci6n del Praycto. La pren t yda m=noia rem    las colusios de la misi6ay las acnldos
alfcanl=os con el rlsitao NacicOal de Vias. La misi6n dma cprsa =D                     y
mciowariosdel-Istio Nacional de Vis (INVIAS), dtel   xm          Naional de Planeadi (DNP). y
del Minist.xio de Hacienda y Criro Pblico por la colabocd6n brindada durnto mi visits
2.     La misi6n elicita a frVIAS por la rlovucia del tado y el dito en Ia orpizaci dc redel
Seminaio Provial de l Amrivas  realizado   Cartagena   . id 17 y 19 de sptembre, eldcoal con6 cao
una calibcada participaci6n de represenantes del sector vial  inoy de exposiom
internacionales. La iniciava PROVIAL desde m la1zami   en 1992 esti dmostando s etr=a
forma para d inuercambio de eerieneas ea la Regi.  st      el apoa de lNVS a sta iciava y
el notable inerds qua la refrma Levada a cabo en Colombiaih dusprtado en otos paises
lzdnoamericanos. El adclisi do I conclusiones dd Senimni; y en pardcular an aplicaci6n a bs
progesos en el fortalecimiento do INVLAS alcazados ean el ikmo ado, pemiit planar alas
recomendaciones claves para profmdizar en la con  a1d6, de la gesti6n do carreteras n Coaombiay
consolidar NVA  en una orgazd6a de alto desempdo.
Situacids actusl del Proyecto
3.     Sitacin Flunciera - Desembolsos. La misi6 .    co Smcionarios de 7INYAS dg pa o
en la ejecaci6n de los distin  componentes dcl Pryacuo NAmzox  1 rme l Ia ejec& Ifwimza y los
desembolsos dd prdsmmo al 30 do agosto 1997. Los d    s     mitados hasta la fbcirsim
USS253.6 miones Cmcluidos USSS.5 miIlones de depdsito iiuiil en la Cnent Especia  quo xepretn
95.3% del nm    total dd pr6stamo. Asimismo, INVIAS bawiado al Banco una soiciftud do desbaLSO
por USS4.5 millons. Todos los fondi   r _aetos soe ncu  compoos peso ea puiblequpor
varia,ci& do la tasa do cazbio no so desembolse el 100% d lo fos ante:s d  31 do di_embre 1997, ka
fochado ciorre del prdstar.
4.     Cumplimiento con los Compromisos de los Convios de Prstamo y GaatAa  El An=o 2
mue= el nivel de cumplimiento con los compromisos acordados bajo el Plan L=tucional del Pstamo.
La misi6az encuentra sats&ctodo el progso realizado, q= ha petmiddo cumplir 10 de los 14
compromuisos (o 7 1%), mientras que so avanza  rs&ctoriamto para dar CUmplimientO a las
couipromisos main pend;ntgs. El aliras lizdo byjo la seuda wso del Estudio sobre Cgos a lox
Usuarios muestra quo los acales cargos so coosisteccoc  los   II, ientos de la CUsula 6.01 (b)
del Cowvenio de Pristamo, si bien hay ampllo margen pars na4orar s estructur ylos In spam
que dichos recursos cstda disponbles en fa=a eficiente paud  i a    del sectr, de amdo can
la propuesta formulada bayo dicho estudio. Respecto a los  imos de supaevisi6n do INVIAS par ka
autoridad:s del sector, la misi6a recibi6 copia de (i) la evahzadn quo el Mnisterio de Transport. rla
sobre la gesti6a de JNVIAS durante l ultimo afio, y CiH) el AN= documento (baruador) CONPES sobre ls



37
Tcrccr Proyecto Sectorial de Carretera
Ayuda Mcmoria Sepdembre 1997 -Pig.2
evaluaci6n del Plan de Desarrollo. Estas evaluaciones rcexnpla. n el Plan de Desempeno al cual so hace
referencia en el Convenio de Pr6stamo 3453-CO.
Componentes financiados por el prestamo
5.     Obras Civiles - Program& Carreteras y Puentes. La inversi6n acum     y meas fisicas
alcan"zdas al 31 do agoso 1997 bay los componentes do constucci6n/rehabilitaci6 do cade s y
puontes se resumen an el An=oo 3. Continia, en ejecuco6n los tres subproyoctos rehabilitaid6 de la
carretera La Romlia-EI Pollo, Varante Sta. Rasa y Vanaznto Chinchini (los cuales se tm inarin con
financiaento de INVIAS) y dos de los cinco subproyecmos iiciados en enero-ftrero 1996: Olba-San Gil
y la Vananto de Popayn estn Wperimentado rctrwsos qua comprometon su trminaci6a autes de la &Cha
de cierre del prtamo. En d Anxo so incluy  commemios rmlaivos a la gesti6n ambin1l de estos
subproyectos; -El pnmero, se e encue ta retasado au   no se han prxsetado sobrecostos. Respecto a
la Varianto de Popayr, se acord6 que ITVIAS, atrav& de su Subdireccion Ambiental, eviari al Banco
antes del 15 de octubre pr6ximo un informe dotllado sabre la simaci6n ambiental do este stubproya. El
infonne ircluUii (i) los problemas ambientales quo se b1 presentado en la via, (it) las soluciones acordadas
y el plazo en que sen ejcutadas, (iii) las medidas pan lograr e cumplimiento de los  qrim ;
anbientales por parto del contudsm y (iv)   crogrno a de actvidades par obtonor la limocia
ambiental copn o
6.     Equipos y Materiales El Anoo 4 muestra la situaci6n del programa de reparacien de
maquinaria, adquisici6n de bzsculas (ambos coaucluidos = 1995), y seguridad viaL Se ha concluido IL
inplementaci6n de estos componentes, habiendose alcn=ado los objetivos propuestos a pesar de la
reducci6n ea m  alcance do! programa de rebabiltaci6n cd maquinia viaL Ala  cha. contida la medici6a
de mgosidades con perfl6grzfo y defloeiones con FWD en toda la red actalment en opeuci6n, mediane
conwato con TNL Dicho con= estrai termado en noviembre y proporcinar la infozmacin  *a
para op=ci6n del sisu= de pLaaci6n del numanninica . La misi6n solicita a la SecUda Tknica. qua
evaloe la expenonia obtda byo esa contu a fin de elaborar 6ininms de refrrcnia/espeolacimeos
do servicio par contatar pent osts serviclo en el f=ro. La diusi6 de los r_udos,
juntanont con la dclui  de lNWIAS de actuaizar Ia medicionos p    camento conflvari a quo flmias
consultoras espcialinda adquiormn los equipos y desanllen capacidad pau prestar est secio en
condiciones competia pam la inscin.
7.     Programa de Estudios y Auistencia Ticnics. El Anco S resume los estudios finnciado corn
cargo al componente instcional. Con respectco a los sudasistcias t6onicas incluidas dlede usd
inicio en el proyecto, y aun en ejecuci6n, la misi6n tiene los siguientes comeatarios: (a) asistencta tEcnca
para diseuar e implementar un sistema de admirnistracdn del mantenimiento wval, a cargo del consorcio
Directorado de Carrrs de Dinarca-Universidad del Cauca. El conuto ha terminado, pero aim no se
han logrado todos los objcivos del mismo ya quo el sistema SAPCOL (Sistena AnEIisis Prioridades) se
encuenta instalado a nivel de protwtipo y no ha sido empleado para producir los informes de gesti6. De
igual mancra, se est dlabomado el software necesario para gestionar la informaci6n colectada a travds del
sistema Diuio y procesarla por medio do SIVCOL (Sistaina 2fornaci6z Vmal). De la revisi6a realizada no
queda claro como se gestionan los datos de trnsito, importate insumo pa el sitea La misi6n solicita
quo en los tres meses siguientes los consultores idtnsifiquen sus esfizzos para: i) hacer ttaimento
operativo el sistoa de gesti6n, CH) producir los respectivos man-al del umualio con ejemplos complkt4s
de como aplicar el sistema do gesid  a las tareas qu runara te debe ectuar la Subdirci6i de
Conservaci6n (ic., elaboraci6n, seguimiento y evaluaci6a de programas plurianmales priorizados Y (y 
capacitar al personal dc INVIAS quo tendri a su cargo la operaci6n del sistmna. Por el contrario, los
resultados bajo el sistema de adinisacin de puentcs han sido altamente satdu& rios. La Subdizoci6a



38
Tercer Proyecto Scuorial de Canctras
Ayuda Memodia Sptiembre 1997 - Phg3
de Conscervaci6n infornai al Banco antes dl 30 de octibre las medidas adoptadas para corregir los
problemas arriba citados; (b) la asistencia t&cnica en supervisidn de obra -a cago de TNM Inc.- se
inici6 en. noviembre pasado, y esui concluida en mayo. La misi6n reconienda qua la Sub-direccion de
Constucciones promueva la discusi6n entr sus yencias sobre los resultados de las visitas a obras con
problemas, los cuales se vienen realizando bajo estL asistencia t6amica asi como de ls adiorias tacnicas a
las 5 obras seleccionadas bajo la asistcia tdcaica en fortalecimiato institucional; (c) el estudio sobre la
Industriz de I Constnuccidn ral Local s ha onutado con ICONTEC y reformulado pa  prodr
normas ,y un manual para el aseguraneato de la calidad en obras viales. La misi6n solicia a INVIAS qua
a travds de s Scretia T6nica se hag  egar alBanco antes del 30 o diiembre, d inf    final
produciko y e plan de accion adoptado por MVIS paa inroducir adualeaft cstes conoeptos al
interior de la instituci6n y en los contutos de consultoria y de obra; y (d) el estedio sobre Angisis y
Modelos; de Trifico pam la Red Nacional de Caeuas esti en marcha y so espem qua pam fi del
proycctcs solntarh con los modelos que perznin ma mojor et;maci6n de ifico oea k r   Uno de ks
aportes claves de est cdio es mostr la inta6n ntre distintos twams de la red quo puode copetir
por la d=nanda de trifico (Co cal juep gun l irolian  en el cao do concteu ). L:a mdn solicit
que so eaeviz al Banco (a tavvs de la Msi6n Resddt), pan comon io, los inf quo so vaya
producie:ndo ac el estdo.
S.    'Fortalecimiento InstitucionaL El c     de asistencia t6ica am frlci     ;stca
qto adnta Booz Alen &  nEhmnl ha sido eodido hasta l 31 do diciebro cm el fade (i) coordiar
Ia insmentaci6n de la estraegia financ  H) apa la aproximaci6n dd plan via cuatnal basado am
criterios socio-econfmicos, (ii) coordinar la pmnda y depuraci6n de los nuevos euqn  de gestl6n de
oofratos, (iv) apoyar el desanTollo a integrdc de los sistemas de contol, (v) intog  d proceso do
plantaci'6 y control con sus componentes vial etrat6gico, financiero a instibicinal, (vi) dar sguimieno a
los roltados do tdas las iniciasivas dc progama de fa       y recomodar acioe cmTecivas.
La misi6u destaca la impartdcia del progmn de          en oci d cual la i -terack e=e
consultores o INVIAS vim. jugando un papel clawe pam el logo do las objedvos y al ;sis ea zLfr
Ia orientaci6 do TNVIAS hacia los usuazios y la c-arcializac6a do la gSa6n. St upom quo pam fa det
proyecod sO cata. ca nd Sistema do bnfmif Ejtcuivo. La misin soHcta a MMS quo ev{e a
Banco el" inorm. nal de Ia consutora yun plan de acci6n con lu medidas de fmwlcimcnto quo so
flevarin a cabo luego de finalizada la asistecia t6caica.
9.     Implantacifn de un Sistema de Cargos a los Usuarios. Los resultados de la Segnda, Fase del
Estudio do Esugias de    nciamie   y Cargo a los Usuarios fooro presewdos y ana       de
el Serninario ProviaL La propuesta bajo ems nt estudio cosisto e CO) consir um Fondo
Fiducianio (o Fondo d Financiad  de Vias) dcio  inialmnt a asegurarualnljo dofiandos estables
y segurat para el mantenimiento y rehabEitacidn de la red (y no la expansin de la misa), (ii) establecer
un Cordb6 con pactipacon. del sector pnvado (uaios)para gobrnar el Fondo y  nmoaar audztorlas del
uso do recursos, y (iii) establecr ua taui& a tza  de un sistera de cargos en la Ioia de  _ckmus
parafiscales, quo peamita recuperar los costos de acadn do las respecta redes via (nacio,
depart tal, local-municipal), tal como I0lo rci=c la Ley de Transporte (105-93) an in articulo 21.
Respecto a la drinislion de este fondo, la misi6n recomienda precisar rAs quo wtiados privadas -co
fizerte interds = el buen funcionamiento del sistma vial- formaran parte de la JU=a oDireconio. El
Ancxo 6 resume comentarios adicionacs: al infr  finl del estdio. En vitud de lo looms en el proceso
de fortaleciniieno insitucional levado a cabo a la fecha por RNVAS, y los prospecto. de profudizar ces
aibr mis, la misi6n considera que la propuesza de ceaci6n del Fondo es justificada  oporua- La misi&
solicita a INVIAS quo elabore uma propusta parsa la implementaci6n de estas   z cion.



39
Tercer Prayecto Sectoial de CanTetm
Ayuda Mtoria Septiembre 1997 -Pi&4
10.    Prograna de Capacitaci6n. El Anexo 7 resume el progreso a la ficha con el plan de
capacitaci6n. La misi6n considera muy importantel a labor qu vi realizando las Secretarias Tdcaicy
Administrariva en el area de capacitaci6n para fortalecer el recurso humno de lNVlAS. Pam
complementar este esfuezo antes d la twnkaci6n del proyecto, la misi6n sugiere cuto iniciativas
importants: (i) en el imbito de reforma ins=tcional, Ilevar a cabo las vrisitas plancadas a Nueva Zelanda y
Australia, las cuales pennitrin drivar importantes lecciones sobre la corpo r de la gesti6n,
desconcentraci6n de decisionos a traves de "cmtratzs de desempedo con las regionales, y definici6n do
indicadores do dosempeio; CHe) para compleumtar el estudio conutado con ICONTEC, capacitar al
personal de IIVIAS et el a Esegurminto  do la caldad (iii) por st rolvancia par la lxpauisd6n dte
programa de concesiones (2da. generci6n), onsdtuirun grupo de trabajo con hfconarios do Crido
Pibliwo y DNP para esttdiar mecnismos eficientes pam la gesti6n y presup  ta  dol  oiode m
,ontmgotes, y anamizz la ecricia de Chle Cn este ambito; y iv) cnvist dc los grades avanc  enIa
gesti6n arrio2ital do ThLVS, y el ines de INVIAS por  icionaDnr aindmis esta Vst& y
demostrar esta capaidad ae la comnidad y las autoridades amnbietls inciarun procoso quo penitza
en ei nmdiano plazo obtenr los benficios de ina c =rtifcaci6n en la norma ISO 14000 Sistens de
learcniento Ambienal A tal e&cto, INVXAS podria conttatar con rocunos de capacitadk del
prismo un diagn6stico sobre las pricticas cd: lNVIAS respacto a la ISO 14000, incluido  Y5W
con, mirs a establecer un plan de acci6n pam lograr la certificaci6n en la norma citar
11.    Actalizad6a Plan Maestro de Transporte. El Anexo 8 resume las coclusio   de Ia ravii6i
da al proceso de acmalici6n del Plan Maestro conputado pot la Oficina de Planeaci6n del MT aom
apoyo financiero del prdstano 3453-CO. El Plan Maestro es una herramiwta dave para la planificaci6n.
intgrada de los medios de trasaporte, un de las responsabilidades claves dd MT. El esfuerzo quo so
vieno realizando pan actualizar la base de infirmd6n e insticioar d uso dcl modelo no pem*itr
obtener los resuhados espedos si el Mr no contita a la brevedad lose conutoros lo   tel cm  s
acord6 a comienzos de afo.
Componentes no ancados por l PrdstaJO
12.    Progra  de M      ento VuL La  isi6n revis6 con  nionais de a Subder=   E'
Conservaci6n el proposo en Ia eecucin del naztenimiento durante 1997. Los recusos asidos
(Col$132,330 milonos) muestzn la prioridad asignada al ma  nt. Tres conatos de
mni            igal estin en ejecucidn, con exito por el momnto cam  expoencias pilto, a tinpo
que la Subdirecci6n esta considozando contaics tipo ClRelMa. para la rehabflitaci& y  _  de la
red. Con 84% de la red a cargo de lNVIAS gestionada por   istad    viabs yil cla
mntnaria a cargo de micrempresas, la sostembilidad do la estrategia de mantenimit esti aseguradL
Dada la importancia de estas xpeiencias innovativas, la misi6n solicita a la Sublrcci6n de Conservaci6n
quo elabore para el  brnm do Temiaci6n ddl Proyecto (ver mis abajo) una evaluaci6n de las divasas
pricticas inroducidas deadc los punts de vista de efoctividad y eficiencia ea costo, evaluaci6n qua
facilitari la consolidaci6n de una estrategia de mmntenizieno.
13.    Obras de canalizaiu6 y dragado Rio Magdalena. El Ancxo 9 resume las concWaoes da la
misi6n respecto al componente de trwnsporte hLLviaL
Preparacidn Informe Terminad6n del Proyecto
14.    La fecha de cierre del prdsma e5s e 31. de diciembro 1997, por lo quo todas las obras y sanicioa
Enanciados con cargo al mismo deberin estar cancluidos para tal fecha (e procesamiato de los
descmbolsos pendientes podri continuar hasta cl 30 de abril 1998).



40
Tercer?yto Sectrial dc Carera
Ayuda Mria Sepdembre 1997 -PiOS
15.    Con ci fin de prepamarla contibuci6n de  VIAS al lIfoe de Trici6n del Proyecto, s
acord6 completar las tareas que sodeta2 a conidnuaci6n enlas fecba indicadas, d   aner ccocar con.
un borrador de informe no mas tarde del 30 de marzo 1998. La Oficina de P kc6n de U4WIAS
coordinari. Ia consolidaci6n de la infornmad6 y evaIuaci6n de los resultados rbonades con los
componemtes de inversi6n y fortalcimieto institucional, obteniendo los aportes de ils difr=tes
Subdirecciones involucradas. El Ing. Germi Ospina (Consutor) asistirL al Bano y ea la mdi dre lo
requerido a  hNVIAS, en d procai  de la informaci6n evaluai6n de los ibproyectos y pwparci&
del informo. Ea pardtular:
a) con apoyo dcel gnpo EDM-3 de la Subdici6n do Consrvaci6n, llevari a cabo antes dcel 31 de ero
1998, la evaLuacin aconwmica de los sub proyctos tcninados con finmio d proyect (41
subproyacts inikiados cm rocursos de prdstmos anteriores o propios, =is lm iniciados y_omnados
bajo i actual prdstamo). La qejcucn do u= gran nimoro de estos subproyectos c xppenim
r,uasos debido a limios t6uicas o finnieru. Por eand, d aLu    cura idgcar las
,zones y cuantificar muin los sobrecostos inidos y los benfi cio q  so dojaron de pdmcbir
compazando la iecucift remg con la plameada al tempo de aprobaci6o dci pryect.
b) prepazura  y enviari al Banco ans del 30 de fbrro (i) u= inform   m   (aIrededor de 10-15
pU a s) con suaev ci6nretaspoia sobre e logro de los objetivos dipryecto, la  stei
de los mismos, e dcescrpedo dd MOPTANVIAS y del Banco ducAnto 1a ini  dd p nyecto
la efectividad de las relaciones eUf ambos, ed desanpefdo ambietal a lo bz  dd pmyecto, las
principales lccios deivadas de la refozma del sector y de! programa de adaptaci6n laboral; y (Ui) ur
plan opoavo cO las accion  provst pa contmnar con Ia operaci6a y y t in     do lu
invoraones realizdas y corn el FotalImimnto  sticnal de lNVIAS.
16.     L   ut;in considems quo el pz  ha lorado sadsfctoramento klm obvs do dasauola
phlazdos, a! tiepo quo su qecuciadrn hmstigo de u poso do r-nu i       iaa  ambiciosoqo h
nmustm resukados muy posvs en tbnoS de mayor oc&kidad y  efiden a des Iopeoimo  en sla rodi
vi! nacizaL MAs adn, lDMAS contala -prom        am pesepo ce s *d o f"ztz cEmt insdona!
uzfcxa     la gsd6 par satisfa  la ncesidades do los usaios, logndo   suficieocia y    d
financiera, fortalecicdo la partcipaci ni compt=va dd sector privado, descoItllndo Ia gesd& vial y
a=ontannd   la calidad y producividad de los procebs0. Ajuicio de Ia miuido, In madidas a considear
para profundiztr el fortalecimiento de IVIAS en el corto y modiano plazo cprc dra
I> mplamo  de capacidad esuatigica    * moficaci6 doe nrmas y tmites pmspuestales en las catdades
ps gesi6nuintgml do proyet y         del orden naciaW que dicnltaad -rrma denUo do Iot
mwjora do la efcicacia oranizaonal   prayectosviales
* modificaa6u escu.a oraizal para zaoaver absziln
operaconales (medidas de ctio phzo) y simplificada do
* mejoramieo del     obumano y de inceto salataex an
ifuea con requcuimienzos do gu iiaieto integra par
remouhdor
* prcbde laeficacia deos sumdnms doer a araftd
pilotos y adopcidn del sisu m aa ojit    de iutmacdi6
* enfoqu en "coredores de tansu  coua pre paso pam
privilegiar una orientaci6n haia dsuafio y e impact*
econ6mico del transporte;



41
Ter=eProyeo Secturl de Cazstt
AyudaMemoria Septicbre 1997 -Pg6
Asegurmiento de mecanismos de      * establecimiento de un Fondo Fxduciario de F'iuandaci6n do Vlas
flnnnciamiento estables y precidbles  para canalizar conutnbuciones parafiscales para mantenimil y
rehabilitaain a niveles nacional, deparuemal y municipaL
Y para la sostezmbiidad de la reforma del sector en el nediano plazo:
_   'Comercalfradci6n" de opeadones de    * continuidad alta gerencia IDVIAS y geres de prayec
INVIAS y su consolidaci6n como        mlificados dmuante proceso do consolidacioz6 tsdonal
organizacin de alto desempefto       (crtificad6n de gerentes);
* en linea con el progreso en el foialemiento doe  VAS,
transormacni do WlVIAS en una cozpracid6n (par ejmplo,
Empresa Industrial y Comrcial) y modificacihn de su em
par posiitar mayor autnoi y control finor de s
- -                           zecuisos y do sos operacn s
* institucionalicna de las incdons de clidd de suviia a
=vds de enacess a los imaos y otas foras de
;im
gadual ideiio       a         progpmas de asgur=unt do
la alidad a nivol do conttrafts y onsultmrs
_  Sostzbidad de actual asipacift do    * puesta en operaci6n de umssina do finandaiehno pa los
responsabiliads pa ataacifa redes    tres ivdes do la       aci-naiaL, baso en co_nu es
val (DacLona dpnamnoml               paaflscales o Urifis aprmdas por los usuazos (Fooda Vial;
municipal) y disponibilidad rscos  * forlecmiento do las agencaw viales de los        y
acordes con las r  liddoes           ents tertoriales (PROVIALws dop=a   es);
17.    El proyect contniby6 a reducir costs do tansporte en credores do exportad6n-hqxotaciM,
-idcuyendo la tuminaci6n de obas inmportantes Cie., Troncal Magdaleza, Lobogu ueuro-Ruawwwra.).
Pero no se alcaarontodas las mets fiicas planteaas debido a los sobrecostos y dmora qu
c I  rIn oaras ialmt La coaacientr los m antgo contruxos ylos ccob im
snbprOyectos flnanciado par el pryaco coastitya =  opormidad pazajur la real capacidad de
sud6a de DlVIAS, en partiuar a la quo bace al control de costos y plazos do obra Em cuanto al
segtmdo objedvo, d meloranieto de las proceaiuietos de plaiflcaci& y prepat=i6n de practos
zosuka evidYet el proycto corinbuy6 a la prmema evaluai6n do la red ean 1993, la cual f&e
perfoionsda luego con l delarro  del progra PROVLAL Colombia y dd Plan do Desanolo. La
cadad de los esudos de  ;i a ha meorado, co  a i&oducci6n de nuos t:minos do btzencia, pen
con excepcit doe los  titnmos conwtos, las obras fianciad  por el prayecto no so b icwaro d estas
mejoms debido a quo los estudios habian sido realizdos con anteioridad. La reforma de 1993 ev6 a
lNVIAS a rofumular  su estegia para el mateimento de Ia red, con resukados muy posidvos como lo
danucsua la coudici6n de la redL Destacan en tc seaddo di culecimicto del sistema de ii
la gestida del mnntonimicnto a usvds do drunistwadores viales, la  e taci6n con fiomas de
contzaaci6n mws eficaces, y el incruemto sign ficativo de los recursos asWiados para coasrvaci6n.
18.    Otro de los objetivos, a racionalzacidin de la estructra del MOPT, ha superado las expectada
oigibalos del proyacto. E anilisis reospectivo de la reforma realizada, y do algunos compoentes de 1;
musma com  el progma do readaptai6n Laboral, permitzran cx=r impornznzs clones. Ente Ios
tonas, destaca los mecanism   do supe:vsi6n del sector qua so propusicon y amplcaun bao el proyeco
(ie., Plan de Desempedo, cvahxsios CONPES). lNVIAS complet6 con duito la tmsforncia do vias a
los d p       ons, otro de los obdedvos do! proycto. Esto a pesr de las dificultades comLa iLL pcin del
Foado de Co  _ici  de Vias, ole to clare para apoyar la tzinsfh=cia. El efoque adoptada pam
promover la capacitcidn y fortalocimieno de los departam amos en la gest6n de sus redos as tambidn acl



42
Tercer Proyecto Sectouial de C=ttms
Ayuda Momoia Septiem   1997 - Pg7
para asegmrar la sostemibiidad do la tasferoncia La misi6n solicim quo cm sm 6outriuciin alifom
INVEAS aaiz las loi    civadas de cm proceso, ci partculalos aregos adoptudos par u
cfecdvo involucramiWo doe los     eot en d programa de capachaci6m
19.   Por otim, los logos a materia do             do la gm&n ainbtal han sido substdales.
La crmaci6n de la Unidad Ambtl flue COdici6a de oficvidad dpudtamo. La avolin de la nidad
muesta distntas etapas: (i) la i=ci6n de la unidad en el ciclo do gci6n de lou proyectos Cm., tmeinos
de refr=cia osaudioa, desauo de an, polica anhbi   do 1NVEAS y de nomas ambimtles pau
conwuutista, obteucift de Hic     ambimnalocs  n   o linpo), (i) la usd&   ocial de Ios proyucts Cm.,
avalIuo sodal de predios, austinda a pqups vnerable) y (iii) la ns=racidn del padinio ambi1taL
asociado a las vias. Las mcadus actoalm cm  =so so crie a alaa  a                 a
es=tr;cas pam el dearofo aaoble de las  gin  asods alos comdores   e..,   sy
corporaoau-paa phummadn  onal y getin do impactos ihdlzm). la cmdfica  en Sis=n de
Gcreciariento Ambienmt4 yrfim   la intemnaflcidn de ans pepos a nivd de crukm y
conuauistas quo fi*ecacm am DO
20.    Par laziqmde  lasdIn      quo qll sopuedcdcwdela  dsogodprde am pi IcBnWMv         n
grm inztos la prepmacidn de Ift. do Tormnad6aw   del Proysots
S t/r   . 1    * 24 de septmb  do L997
PorlthP  Bu Mumd
Gaviria                          ~~~~~~~~Jo.6Luisfroy
7              Gme                                          O&PZo
Por sntr& Pi el proyc4 an ayua memor*t se Wby   fSmu a:
Miisterio de Trnsports
Dr Josa EAiqco Rizzo Pmboo, U&istio
Depart*meuzo Naciounl de Pimacd
DraL CeciliL Corvalin, Jeo UIdad T-fraestuc
Ministerio de Hacienda
Dr. Clcmar  del Vulle, Direw de Cr6dito Pfiblico



TERCER PROYECTO SECTORIAL DECARRETERASPRESTAMO NIF;3453-CO.
-         .          RESUMEN  EJECUCION FINANCIERA A AGOSTO DE 1997                        j             *
._ _ _ _ _ _ . _  _  _ _ _ _                    ..... .                                                                                                              .     ...  --- -. i"E  ..
'GCOSTO TOT.r                                                                                       . 
No  DOSCRPCION  C           ATEQOIS            -O5TO            ..    4':42P9rQ':E......993   -                     J4                       ROQRA-              SALUO  POR
APPkAISAL,           .                                                                            ADO__JECUTA-
LOCAL  -          -           i:k~~~~~~~~~~~~-,  ______           EJECUTADO A4OSTO-97             lIADO         -       EJECUTAR .~-.;  -  :  ,,;7-,  .-    kJCUAD   AaST-9
LOCAL_       BIRF       TOTAL       LOCAL       BIRF       TOTAL       LOCAL        8IR-F      TOTAL                  LOCAL        DIRF    TOTAL       4>
1 ORAS CIVILES-INTERVENT.   126.640.45  130,633.00  3773.4   13,13.3  109,320.00  333.03                        t        4       4,124.39  24?,679.76    5,49960 9 ,005.27   14,504.37
PUENIES   ________    ________jt                   33.3                       5644991   23,64A      3
2ADUISICION V REPARACION           4,092.66   36,333.0t   40,925.65   , 1,3.033   12,333.60   13,703.33    69C.34    6l167.09   6,592.4:    6,267.0S        0.00        0.00        0.00
Ed6UiPOS4EGURA DbA    VIAL                                      I__ _                               _ _ _                   _ _ _      _ _ _
3     ESTUDIOS-ASISTENCIA              0.00    2,30.0      2,36 060   .            _.00  .    2,170.00       0.0     7,66L.   . 7,22   10,745.60            0.00    3.181.31    3.1q3 ?
TeCNiCiA V CONSUiLTORIA   ________- 
__EXAC T ERIO R OALOL>          6t0        ,St       2,140.00   .ff3.5    1,760.0        2,753.35       0.0     1,03J.44    1,09t3.44    1,30?.IE _   0.0        214.12     214.12
4. CAPACITACION LOCAL Y EN FL        963.865    1,760002.140    .0                                                                        _______0276.50.0i0944 T.0-6  2______3
!M!PREVlSTOS.           38,917.00 44,3034.00 S1.                       .49,317..   V *.-o.q 010 -iu ON00 0.01
TOTAL              170131        6000.          Q                         o                                                                           1
-   -   -     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.0,,                                                        7123



44                       Appendix B
INTRODUCCION
Este documento constituye el informe final de la Post -Evaluaci6n del Crddito BIRF-
3453-CO, constituyendose de esta manera en el resiumen de todos los componentes que
se financiar6n en la construcci6n, pavimentaci6n, y rehabilitaci6n de la Red Vial
Nacional.
El objetivo principal de este informe consiste en demostrar al Banco Mundial, los
resultados obtenidos con relaci6n al crddito y de esta manera evaluar su ejecuci6n y
gesli6n.
Capitulo I - Resumen del Credito: Se presentan los antecedentes, contenido,
enmrrendas y condiciones generales del credito.
Capitulo II - Resultados: Se presenta un resumen de las obras civiles, interventoria y
puentes; Seguridad Vial, Adquisici6n y reparaci6n de Equipos; Consultoria, Estudios y
Asistencia Tecnica; Capacitaci6n y la Post Evaluaci6n Econ6mica de Proyectos.
Capitulo III - Factores que afectar6n la ejecuci6n del credito: Se presenta un
resiimen de las reformas del Sector Transporte y los aspectos Tecnicos.
Capitulo IV - Conclusiones: Se presenta su cumplimiento, utilidad del credito,
incovenientes presentados, sostenibilidad del proyecto y las lecciones aprendidas.
Capitulo V - Lecciones Aprendidas



45
POST EVALUACION DEL CREDITO 3453 - CO
I - RESUMEN DEL CREDITO.
1. ANTECEDENTES.
El tercer proyecto sectorial de carreteras se inscribi6 dentro de la politica gubemainental de
apertura econ6mica, con el objeto cle facilitar el comercio exterior para mejorar la
infraestructura vial. Se di6 prioridad a la rehabilitaci6n de las carreteras troncales y
transversales pavimentadas orientadas hacia los puertos y paises vecinos, asi como a la
pavimentaci6n de vias que por su importancia regional actuaron como alimentadoras de las
anteriores, coadyuvando de esta manera al desarrollo socioecon6mico del pais.
Se continuaron las obras de rehabilitaci6n y pavimentaci6n iniciadas con el primero y
segundo proyecto sectorial de carreteras que por su costo y tamafno necesitaron de recursos
adicionales. Igualmente se financiaron adquisiciones para equipos, sefializaci6n vertical y
horizontal, mejoras de seguridad vial, asi como los programas de capacitaci6n y estudios
para el perfeccionamiento institucional del sector transporte.
2. PREPARACION Y CONTENIDO.
El tercer proyecto sectorial de carreteras comprendi6 las siguientes categorias de inversi6n:
CATEGORIA I. Obras civiles, interventoria y puentes.
CATEGORIA II. Adquisici6n de equipos, reparaci6n y seguridad vial.
CATEGORIA III. Consultoria, estudios y asistencia tecnica.



46
CATEGORIA IV. Capacitaci6n
CATEGORIA V. Contingencias fisicas y de precios.
El BIRF-3453-CO, financi6 obras de rehabilitaci6n y pavimentaci6n de carreteras
irLcluidas en el segundo proyecto sectorial de carreteras (BIRF 2829-CO) y que no
pudieron ser terminadas. Rehabilitaci6n y pavimentaci6n de carreteras iniciadas con
recursos del Fondo Vial Nacional, que requirieron de financiaci6n adicional. Y por
u]Ltimo algunos proyectos nuevos de construcci6n de carreteras.
La inversi6n del Pr6stamo BIRF 3453-CO, fiie de la siguiente manera
En la Categoria de Obras Civiles iniciados con BIRF 2829-CO, que comprendian
1965 Kms. de obras de pavimentaci6n y rehabilitaci6n - requmrieron de ima
financiaci6n de aproximadamente US$180.0 millones.
Proyectos financiados en un 100 % con recursos de este prestamo US$13.2 millones.
COtros proyectos que fueron financiados con recursos del Fondo Vial Nacional y para
la cuhuinaci6n de 47 Kms se gastaron alrededor de US$8.0 millones de d6lares. Con
respecto a construcciones nuevas, se desembolsaron alrededor de US$40.0 millones
de dMlares. En puentes US$6.5 millones de d6lares. Con relaci6n a estos tilmos,
INVIAS realiz6 un programa completo de ani]isis e inversi6n con recursos propios en
960 puentes.
En la Categoria de Adquisici6n de Equipos y Reparaci6n se desembolsaron
aproximadamente US$1.3 millones de dMlares. Esto comprometi6 la adquisici6n de
basculas fijas y portitiles pam el pesaje de vehiculos, como tambien la reparaci6n de
maquinaria del antiguo Ministerio de Obras Puiblicas y Transporte.
Con relaci6n a la Seftalizaci6n y Seguridad Vial, se invirtieron ahrededor de US$5.5
millones de dolares y en Estudios y Asistencia T6cnica alrededor de US$10.0
millones de d6lares.
La Categoria IV, de Capacitaci6n, la cual contribuy6 al fortalecimiento y
entrenaniento del personal de INVIAS, se inviertieron alrededor de US$1.5 millones
de d6lares. La Categoria V. de Contingencias su valor asignado fue trasladado a
C)bras Civiles y Estudios.



47
ENMIENDAS                                                 Millones de US$
CATEGORIA  PARI -PASSU  COSTO   CONTRATO  ENMIENDAS
BIRF LOCAL, PROYECTO  PRESTAMO  en 1993 en 1997
1 OBRA CIVIL  60 %    40%           302.5        158.8       198.8    247.7
PUENTES                                            5.8
OB. FLUVIAL                                       16.0
2A ADQUISIC.  90 %    10 %           40.9         29.7        7.8       5.5
EQUIPOS       100 %   Ext.
SENAL VIAL                                         6.0
2B REPARAC    90 %    10 %            4.5          0.8        4.5      0.8
EQUIPOS
3 CONSULT.    100                     2.7          2.7        2.2    10.7
ESTUDIOS
ASIS.TECNI
4 ENTRENAM.  65 %        35%          2.1          1.8        1.8     1.3
LOCAL-EXT
' IMPREVIST                          83.3         44.4       49.9     0.0
TOTAL                           436.0         266.0     266.0   266.0
Condiciones Generales del Cr6dito
Costo del Proyecto:         US. $ 430 Millones
Financiaci6n BIRF 3453-CO:  US.$ 266 Millones
Periodo de ejecuci6n:       4 gfios a partir de 1992
Plazo del prestamo:         17 afios con periodos de gracia de 5 afios.
Interes del Credito:        PrMstamo calificado + 0.5
Comisi6n de Compromiso:     0.75 %- en el desarrollo del cr6dito disminuy6.



48
En consecuencia , este proyecto, se orient6 a mantener el ritmo de inversi6n,
garantizando en primera instancia, el cumplimiento de los compromisos que tenia, la
terminaci6n fisica de los proyectos, la continuidad con los programas de
pavimentaci6n y mejoramiento de troncales, que apoyaron la facilitaci6n comercial, y
a su vez mejor6 la administraci6n y mantenimiento de puentes, se cumpli6 con el
programa de Seguridad Vial y todas aquellas acciones tendientes al mejoramiento del
Fortalecimiento Institucional de Invias.
II - RESULTADOS.
1. OBRAS CIVILES, INTERVENTORIA Y PUENTES.
La casi totalidad de los subproyectos financiados con este credito y que venian siendo
financiados con el BIRF 2829-CO y el Fondo Vial Nacional fueron oportunamente
terminados. Los proyectos: La Romelia - El Pollo, Variantes de Santa Rosa y Variante
de Chinchina estan siendo concluidos con recursos propios, dado que la financiaci6n
prevista con el Banco termino.
La Variante de Popayan y La Plata - Paicol se concluyeron satisfactoriamente. La
carretera Oiba - Socorro - San Gil aunque con algunas dificultades de orden
ambiental, adquisici6n de predios, disponibilidad de equipo por parte de los
contratistas, en un principio present6 retrasos que hicieron imposible su culminaci6n
dentro de la vigencia del prestamo, sinembargo, INVIAS lo terminara en este
semestre con recursos propios.
En cuanto a los contratos de rehabilitaci6n en la costa norte del pais: El Tigre -
Ponedera y Ponedera - Barranquilla; no obstante haberse presentado incrementos de
costos por cambio de especificaciones, transporte de materiales, y problemas
institucionales; se logr6 su culminaci6n dentro de las fechas inicialmente previstas.
Es importante resaltar que los subproyectos de la troncal del Magdalena Medio y de la
via Cali-Loboguerrero-Buenaventura, de gran beneficio para el comercio exterior,
fueron entregados al servicio en forma oportuna y satisfactoria.
En cuanto al programa de puentes, a pesar de s6lo haber atendido seis de los
aproximadamente 20 proyectos previstos inicialmente; se adelant6 el programa de
rehabilitaci6n de 960 puentes, con recursos propios.
En resumen, con apoyo del credito BIRF 3453-CO, se logr6: La rehabilitaci6n de 652
Kms., la pavimentaci6n 520 Kms., la construcci6n 41 Kms., el mantenimiento de
165 Kms. y la construcci6n de 507 ML. de puentes.



49
2. SEGUREDAD VIAL.
Para dar cumplimiento al programa de seflalizaci6n vial fue necesaria la adquisici6n y
suministro de laminas, angulos, captafaros, microesferas de vidrio, pinturas; asi como
la instalaci6n de seilales de transito. Se instalaron 26,000 sefiales verdcales, se
demarcaron aproximadamente 4,200 Kms. de la red vial y se instalaron 12,500 ML.
de defensas metiJicas.
3. ADQUISICION Y REPARACION DE EQUIPOS.
Se llev6 a efecto la reparaci6n de maquinaria pesada, habiendose logrado los
objetivos propuestos. Se adquirieron 12 basculas fijas y 12 port;.iles para la
implementaci6n del programa de Control de Peso en las vias, el cual viene
efectuandose exitosamente en la actualidad.
4. CONSULTORIA, ESTUDIOS Y ASISTENCIA TECNICA.
Se financiaron 39 proyectos dentro de estos aspectos, de los cuales merece resaltarse:
- Sistema de Adrninistraci6n del Mantenimiento Vial: Se terminaron los ajustes del
software de SAPCOL y SIVCOL, ciumpliendo asi con los objetivos establecidos.
- Plan Maestro de Transporte: la financiaci6n de los estudios contratados pam su
actualizaci6n se llev6 a cabo, sinembargo el Ministerio de Transporte debe
implementar e institucionalizar un modelo que permita tomar acciones tendientes a
optimizar la planificaci6n integrada de los diferentes medios de transporte.
- Cargo a los usuarios: La aplicaci6n de los resultados de este estudio contempla la
creaci6n de un Fondo Financiero que involucre el sector privado y publico, vital para
el sostenimiento de la rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento de la red vial nacional;
sinembargo, su materializaci6n requiere el concurso de la voluntad politica de
diferentes organismos institucionales.
- Fortalecimiento hnstitucional: C,umpli6 con lo establecido y se espera su
implementaci6n a partir del presente afio en beneficio del desarrollo de la gesti6n del
Instituto Nacional de Vias. En particular se plantea el fortalecimiento de las siguientes
areas: Financiera, Planeaci6n, Recursos Humanos, Sistematizaci6n e Ingresos.



50
5. CAPACITACION.
La inversi6n bajo este componente sobre Capacitaci6n y Entrenamiento de los
recursos humanos logr6 sus objetivos traduciendose en beneficio de la Instituci6n a
traves del desempeflo de sus funcionarios fortalecidos con programas diversos como:
Sistemas, Aseguramiento de la Calidad, Gesti6n Ambiental, Indicadores de
Desempeflo, Planeaci6n Estrategica Situacional y otros.
En resumen, en entrenamiento nacional se efectuaron 30 seminarios y/o talleres que
beneficiaron aproximadamente a un 80 % del personal del Instituto; en el campo
internacional se efectuaron 52 seminarios de los cuales se beneficiaron
aproximadamente un 10 % del personal.
6. POST EVALUACION ECONOMICA DE PROYECTOS
Se eligieron 15 subproyectos mas directamente relacionados con el objetivo principal
del prestamo como era el mejorar la infraestructura vial que tuviera que ver con la
conexi6n con los puertos maritimos y las fronteras terrestres. No fue posible evaluar
todos los proyectos por algunas razones: falta de documentaci6n completa debido al
tiempo tan extenso en la ejecuci6n de algunos proyectos (mis de 10 aflos),
transferencia de algunas vias a los Departamentos e inclusi6n de otros proyectos en
concesiones. Sin embargo lo mas sobresaliente de estos proyectos fue que no
generaron retrasos ni sobrecostos, y lentamente se fue mejorando en su ejecuci6n.
Segum los resultados obtenidos de dichas evaluaciones son estos econ6micamente
rentables y redundan en un gran beneficio para el pais en su politica de apertura a los
mercados externos.
m - FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA EJECUCION DEL CREDITO
1. REFORMAS DEL SECTOR TRANSPORTE
Desde 1988 empezaron a presentarse sustanciales reformas en el sector transporte de
Colombia que, a la postre afectaron la ejecuci6n del credito. Inicialmente se reform6
el sistema ferreo separando las funciones de mantenimiento de vias de aquellas
correspondientes a la operaci6n misma del sistema. Se reform6 tambien el transporte
maritimo eliminandose la reserva de carga que hasta entonces habia protegido a las
navieras colombianas. En 1991, el turno le toc6 a los puertos nacionales y empez6 a
gestarse una reforma integral del sector.



51
El Decreto 2171 de 1992 reestructur6: (1) al Ministerio de Obras Puiblicas y
Transporte (MOPT) como Ministerio de Transporte (MT) y (2) al Fondo Vial
Nacional como Instituto Nacional de Vias (Invias). Simultaneamente se suprimieron
el Instituto Nacional de Transporte (Intra), el Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales
(FNCV) y el Fondo de Inmuebles Nacionales. El Departamento Administrativo de la
Aeronautica Civil y el Fondo AeronAutico Nacional (FAN) fueron fusionados en la
Unidad Administrativa Especial de la Aeronautica Civil ,(UAEAC).
Posteriormente, en 1993, la Ley 105 fij6 criterios tanto para la operaci6n de transporte
como para la provisi6n y el manteniimiento de la infraestructura. En este sentido se
defini6 la infraestructura vial de caracter nacional, departamental y municipal y se
orden6 la transferencia a los departnmentos de aquellas vias a cargo de la naci6n que
no cumpliesen con los requisitos fijados en la Ley 105 y de la totalidad de los
caminos a cargo del FNCV.
Vale la pena mencionar que el Decreto 2171 fue expedido en Diciembre de 1992 y la
Ley 105 en Diciembre de 1993, coincidiendo precisamente con el perfodo de
iniciaci6n del credito 3453-CO. En efecto, el credito fue efectivo con fecha del 16 de
Diciembre de 1992 o sea, apenas 1.5 dias antes de la expedicion del Decreto 2171.
Naturalmente tenian que presentarse problemas de coordinaci6n que influyeron en la
ejecucl6n de obras programadas y en el programa de fortalecimiento institucional
disefiado. En este sentido la reforma, afect6 la ejecuci6n del credito debido'a:
- Cambio de la entidad ejecutora.
- Liquidaci6n del personal del MOPT.
- Cierre de los distritos de obras publicas.
- Proceso de creaci6n del Instituto N'acional de Vias.
- Transferencia de vias a los departamentos.
1.1 Cambio de la entidad ejecutora
El credito se habia montado bajo el esquema institucional MOPT - Fondo Vial
nacional. La reforma modific6 este esquema y el Invias asumi6 las funciones de
entidad ejecutora. Con ello los componentes del credido fueron modificados casi
inmediatamente despues de declararse la efectividad del mismo. Con el objeto de
fortalecer las areas de estudio, asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n, las inversiones
fluviales y de equipos salieron del Instituto.



52
1.2 Liquidaci6n del personal del MOPT. y de los Distritos de Obras Publicas
Con la separaci6n de funciones entre el Ministerio de Transporte e Invias se produjo
una drastica reducci6n del personal tecnico que atendia la supervisi6n y el control de
muchas de las obras. El fortalecimiento del ente nuevo oblig6 al personal a
capacitarse y mejorar su desempefno con miras a optimizar su gesti6n.
1.3 Proceso de creaci6n del Instituto Nacional de Vias
Aunque inicialmente el proceso de creaci6n del Instituto afect6 en algun grado el
fortalecimiento institucional, demostr6 que la entidad fortalecida podia responder
satisfactoriamente con la ejecuci6n del credito.
1.4 Transferencia de vias a los Departamentos
El proceso culnin6 satisfactoriamente. Al limitarse la responsabilidad del Instituto
exclusivamente a vias de interes nacional, fue posible concentrar la inversi6n vial en
un menor numero de frentes y obtener resultados altamente positivos en materia de
mantenimiento y rehabilitaci6n vial.
2. ASPECTOS TECNICOS
En esta materia se presentaron inicialmente los mismos problemas que ya se habian
detectado en operaciones anteriores con el banco y que tenian su origen en la forma
como tradicionalmente se efectuaba la contrataci6n de obras piiblicas en el pais.
Adicionalmente la ejecuci6n del credito coincidi6 con una mayor conciencia
ambiental en la construcci6n de obras adicionales de mitigaci6n ambiental que
afectaron tanto los plazos de ejecuci6n como el costo mismo de los proyectos. A
estos factores se agreg6 la adquisici6n de predios, problemas de tipo contractual,
disponibilidad de materiales y fmalmente, situaciones especialmente criticas de orden
publico.
Posteriormente, se produjo el fortalecimiento del Instituto bajo el cual se pudieron
superar la mayoria de los problemas y poder finalmente culminar satisfactoriamente el
proyecto.



53
2.1. Estudios
Tradicionalmente las obras que emprendia el antiguo MOPT se caracterizaban por
una baja prioridad en la realizaci6n de estudios de preinversi6n que, a su vez, se
traducia en la contrataci6n de obras sin conocer su verdadero alcance y costo. Ello se
debia a:
- Pobre definici6n de los proyectos.
-Estudios deficientes y/o muy preliminares.
- Excesivo nuimero de frentes con una baja asignaci6n de recursos.
Con la creaci6n del Invias las condiciones en contrataci6n cambiaron y con la Ley 80
de 1993 se implant6 la politica de contratar uinicamente proyectos con estudios
completos. A pesar de que la mayoria de las vias fmanciadas con el credito habian
sido previamente contratadas, se entr6 en un proceso de reformulacion de los
proyectos que permiti6 su satisfactoria terminaci6n.
2.2 Aspectos ambientales
Con la creaci6n del Invias, la inclusi6n de la variable ambiental en todos los
proyectos viales recibi6 una mayor atenci6n y para minimizar dafios, muchos de los
proyectos en ejecuci6n fueron revisados. Algunos de ellos fueron incluso, detenidos
mientras se clarificaba su situaci6n ambiental. Tal es el caso de proyectos como La
Romelia- El Pollo, Variante de Chinchind y Variante de Santa Rosa. Del manejo
ambiental inicialmente estaba encargado un grupo de trabajo, pas6 luego a una
Oficina y por el proceso de fortalecimiento se consolid6 como una Subdirecci6n.
2.3 Adquisici6n de predios
Este problema fue especialmente critico en algunas areas del pais. Su impacto se hizo
notar en demoras y en el mnismo disenfo, pues en algunos casos hubo sectores viales
que se vieron afectados en su terminaci6n, por ejemplo entre Pasto y Tumaco. Si bien
es cierto que hubo problemas de predios, con el tiempo se evolucion6 en este proceso
y empez6 a mejorarse las condiciones de los mismos.
2.4 Problemas contractuales
En algunos casos se presentaron problemas contractuales que terminaron en la cesi6n
de contratos o en su cancelaci6n, afectando el.plazo previsto. Estos problemas fueron
oportunamnente corregidos.



54
2.5 Problemas de materiales
En varios proyectos se present6 escasez de materiales de construcci6n. Tal es el caso
de proyectos donde las fuentes de material inicialmente previstas no puedieron ser
utilizadas pues dificilmente cumplian con las especificaciones de construcci6n. Con
la poiftica de contratar estudios completos este inconveniente fue solucionado.
IV CONCLUSIONES
1. CUMPLIMIENTO.
Puede afrmarse que se cumplieron las metas y objetivos establecidos en el appraissal
y en el Plan de Desempeffo. La terminaci6n se prorrog6 en seis meses, hasta
diciembre de 1997, para permitir la culminaci6n de algunos estudios y proyectos.
2. UTILIDAD DEL CREDITO.
Se constituy6 en uno de los pilares del mejoramiento de la infraestructura vial del
pais, alcanzandose los siguientes logros: Rehabilitaci6n de 652 Kms., Pavimentaci6n
520 Kms., Construcci6n 41 Kms., Mantenimiento 165 Krns. y Construcci6n de
puentes 507 ML.
Se llev6 a cabo el Programa de Control de peso de vehiculos mediante la adquisici6n
de basculas fijas y portatiles, que permitieron adelantar operativos de control en las
diferentes vias, contribuyendo a la dissminuci6n de su deterioro por efecto de
sobrepesos. Fue posible el cubrimiento de gran parte de la red vial desde el punto de
vista de la senializaci6n y la seguridad.
Los estudios financiados y la capacitaci6n y entrenamiento del recurso humano
aportaron grandes beneficios a la asistencia y desempeno del NV, contribuyendo al
fortalecimiento del sector vial.
3. INCONVENIENTES PRESENTADOS
A la firma del convenio del prestamo BIRF 3453-CO, no se tuvo en cuenta la
supresi6n del Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte lo que conllev6 a un cambio
de escenario tecnico y fmanciero que produjo un lento y traurnAtico desarrollo de las
interacciones entre el Banco y la nueva entidad.



$5
El pago de compromisos adquiridos en la categoria de obras civiles del credito
anterior y financiados al inicio de este credito limit6 la financiaci6n de otros
subproyectos.
La atomizaci6n de la inversi6n de obras viales en muchos contratos gener6
dificultades en el seguimiento y supervisi6n de los mismos.
Con el fortalecimiento del Instituto se transform6 la Unidad de Ejecuci6n del
Proyecto en una unidad perteneciente a la Oficina de Planeaci6n.
4. SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
La sostenibilidad depende por una parte del fortalecimiento institucional del sector en
general y de Invias en particular. y, por otra, de un adecuado mantenimiento vial. En
el primer caso en la medida en que las administraciones regionales sean capaces de
mantener su red e Invias de Ilevar a cabo sus planes de reforma institucional, podria
decirse que la sostenibilidad esta asegurada. Sin embargo persisten los siguientes
riesgos:
- Que el mantenimiento vial regional sea deficiente, en cuyo caso crecera la presi6n
para devolverle al nivel nacional las vias previamente transferidas y otras.
- Que no sea posible Ilevar a cabo el programa de fortalecimiento institucional de
Invias ni tampoco una reforma al sistema de cargos a usuarios, en cuyo caso persistira
el deficit de recursos para el mantenimiento.
En el segundo caso, el Instituto ha desarrollado un Plan Indicativo de Conservaci6n
basado en la utilizaci6n de administradores viales, microempresas, contratos
integrales de mantenimiento y eventuales contratos CREMA, tal como se indica en la
secuencia l6gica adjunta. Todo ello seria complementado con el programa de
concesiones.
V. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS.
La iniciaci6n de un prestamo cuando simultaneamente se produce una reforma
institucional que involucra al prestatario, debe analizarse cuidadosamente. Maxime
cuando la coordinaci&i entre las entidades del gobiemo no es clara.



56
Si bien es cierto que en un momento dado se plante6 la posibilidad de suspender o
cancelar el credito, los resultados obtenidos muestran que, a pesar de todas las
dificultades presentadas, la ejecuci6n del proyecto se ternin6 satisfactoriamente.
La experiencia demostr6 que el control y la supervisi6n de proyectos dispersos en
todo el pais es dificil. Consecuentemente se considera conveniente que en
operaciones futuras los creditos se concentren en pocos proyectos de gran impacto
econ6mico y social, como por ejemplo corredores viales.
El Fortalecimiento Institucional y la Capacitaci6n del recurso humano son
componentes que deben ser constantes en todo prestamo a mediano y largo plazo. La
experiencia obtenida en cursos y talleres es positiva.
]Para ser coherente con el fortalecimi7etA institucional, el manejo de los desembolsos
1o debe realizar la Subdirecci6n Fixfancipra, y el control y seg  o del credito la
ODficina de Planeaci6n. 
GUiLLE tGAVIRIA CO    A
DL  TOR GENERAL



