Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3453 CO
Loan Agreement
(Third National Roads Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO VIAL NACIONAL
Dated December 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3453 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO VIAL NACIONAL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and 
a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Departments" means the Departamentos, political subdivisions of the 
Guarantor;
(b)
"DNYP" means MOPT's (as hereinafter defined) Directorate of Navigation 
and Ports, Direccion de Navegacion y Puertos;
(c)
"DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, the National Planning 
Department of the Guarantor;
(d)
"Expert" means an expert in international trade who will coordinate all 
training activities under the Project related to intermodal transport and whose 
expertise will be made available for purposes of Part B.1 (f) of the Project;
(e)
"Eligible Subproject" means any of those Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined) referred to in the letter from the Borrower dated January 28, 1992 (Eligible 
List) and approved by the Bank for financing under the Project and any other 
Subproject which may be approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Estatutos" means the Charter of the Borrower approved by Law No. 64 
dated December 27, 1967 and Decree No. 2862 dated November 20, 1968 and as such Law 
and Decree may be amended from
time to time;
(g)
"EU" means the unit to be established by MOPT within its Technical 
Secretariat (Secretaria Tecnica) pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 of this 
Loan Agreement, whose services will be assigned full-time to the Borrower, and that 
will be in charge of providing assistance on environmental matters related to the 
Project such as environmental assessments and preparation of environmental guidelines;
(h)
"fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on January 1 
and ending on December 31;
(i)
"MOPT" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte, the Guarantor's 
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation;
(j)
"Performance Plan" means the agreement between the Guarantor's Minister 
of Hacienda y Credito Publico and the Secretary of the Guarantor's Consejo Nacional de 
Politica Fiscal (hereinafter CONFIS) and DNP's Director and the Guarantor's Minister 
of Obras Publicas y Transporte, dated October 1, 1992, as amended from time to time 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(k)
"pesos" means the currency of the Guarantor; 
 
(l)
"PIU" means the unit to be established by MOPT within its External Credit 
Office (Oficina de Credito Externo) pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 of this 
Page  3
Loan Agreement, whose services will be assigned full-time to the Borrower, and that 
will be in charge of, among other functions, the monitoring and coordination of 
Project implementation;
(m)
"1991-1995 Investment Program" means the Borrower's sector investment 
program for the years 1991 through 1995, furnished to the Bank through the Borrower's 
letter to the Bank, including the financing plan therefor, dated March 13, 1992, 
signed by Mr. Juan Felipe Gaviria Gutierrez, Minister of Public Works and Transport, 
as such program may be updated from time to time;
(n)
"1991-1995 Road Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's road 
maintenance program for the years 1991 through 1995, furnished to the Bank through the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank
dated June 25, 1992 signed by Mr. Juan Felipe Gaviria Gutierrez, Minister of Public 
Works and Transport, as such program may be amended from time to time in agreement 
between the Bank and the
Borrower;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Subproject" means any investment or expenditure in road or bridge 
construction, rehabilitation or paving, or in respect of transport improvements in the 
Magdalena River other than those under Part A.2 of the Project, which investment or 
expenditure is included, or which may be included, in the 1991-1995 Investment 
Program; and the term "Subproject for Magdalena River" means each of the aforesaid 
Subprojects in respect of transport improvements in the aforesaid river; and
(q)
"Policy" means the policy with regard to adjustments to gasoline and 
diesel prices expressed in the second paragraph of letter to the Bank No. 04122 of 
November 11, 1992, from the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred and sixty six 
million dollars ($266,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Guarantor's Banco de la Republica on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Page  4
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
 
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, 
administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
(A) furnish to the Bank, not later than April 1 and October 1 of 
every year 
during the execution of the Project, starting in April 1993, 
an update of the 
1991-1995 Investment Program, the Borrower's program 
of estimated revenues and 
expenditures for the upcoming five-year period 
and the Borrower's investment 
plan for the upcoming five year period; 
and (B) inform the Bank of any 
investment estimated to exceed 
$10,000,000 equivalent and not included in the 
1991-1995 Investment 
Program, and which investment the Borrower intends to 
carry 
out, and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on any of 
such investments;
(ii)
request approval from the Bank for financing under the Loan of any 
Subproject 
not included in the Eligible List. The Bank shall not 
approve such Subprojects 
unless: (a) detailed engineering, economic and 
environmental evaluations 
satisfactory to the Bank have been 
completed for such Subproject, including 
the computation, in 
accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Bank, of 
an economic 
rate of return for the Subproject in question which shall not be 
lower 
than 12%; (b) the Borrower will have sufficient resources, in the 
opinion of the Bank, to carry out such Subproject within the proposed 
implementation schedule; and (c) the Bank is satisfied with the implementation 
performance of the Borrower in regard to the Project and the Road 
Maintenance Program; 
and
 
(iii)
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with terms of 
reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.
 
Section 3.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than March 31 in each year 
during the execution of the
Project, starting in 1993, furnish to the Bank, a report on the progress of the 
Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter 
alia: (1) a section detailing
progress in implementation of each Project component in the previous year; and (2) 
specific and justified proposals for adjustments in Project implementation based on 
the results of the previous year.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than August 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, starting in 1993, hold annual reviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based 
on the reports referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement and to focus on the following, inter alia: (1) 
evaluation of the progress in execution, and in the achievement of the objectives, of 
the Project based on, among other factors, implementation indicators satisfactory to 
the Bank; (2) decentralization of the national road network; (3) organizational 
restructuring of the Borrower; (4) environmental mitigatory actions; (5) road users 
charges policies and their implementation; (6) 1991-1995 Investment Program; (7) 
1991-1995 Road Maintenance Program; and (8) the estimated amounts to be made available 
by the Borrower in the next following fiscal year pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Loan Agreement and to paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of this Loan 
Agreement; and
(b)
without limitation or restriction to any of the Bank's rights under this 
Agreement, if, as a result of any of the above annual reviews, progress in the 
execution or in the achievement of the objectives of the Project, or any of the 
amounts estimated pursuant to paragraph (a) (8) of this Section, are not satisfactory 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken all such remedial 
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the achievement of such 
objectives or for the efficient execution of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the 1991-1995 Road Maintenance 
Program with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
Page  6
financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental standards and 
practices; (b) provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely manner, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Road Maintenance Program; 
(c) submit to the Bank, not later than September 30, 1993 and each year thereafter, an 
update of the 1991-1995 Road Maintenance Program and the Borrower's program of road 
maintenance for the upcoming five-year period; and (d) submit to the Bank not later 
than April 30, 1993 and each year thereafter, evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of 
the expenditures made in respect of the 1991-1995 Road Maintenance Program in the 
previous year and the amounts allocated for the execution of such program in the then 
current fiscal year.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than April 30, 1993, employ consultants, for the carrying out 
of the study referred to in Part B.2 (a) of the Project;
(b)
discuss with the Bank the findings and recommendations of the study 
referred to in (a) above and, on the basis of such discussions, formulate as many 
action plans as shall be required, all to be satisfactory to the Bank in respect of 
those aspects which, in the opinion of the Bank, are relevant to the Project; and 
(c)
implement each action plan agreed pursuant to (b) above in a manner, and 
under a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
employ, not later than June 30, 1993, consultants, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of implementing a system for road 
maintenance under Part B.1 (a) of the Project; and
(b)
establish and make operational the referred system, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1994.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1994, put into 
effect a revised system, satisfactory to the Bank, of Magdalena river user charges, 
such charges to cover, at least, the Borrower's maintenance costs of the transport 
infrastructure for such river.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain an organizational structure, with 
functions and adequate staff, all satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of 
implementing the Project and complying with the provisions in this Agreement; (b) 
without limitation to (a) above, maintain the PIU and the EU with functions, structure 
and staff, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of assisting in the implementation 
of the Project, and provide the funds, facilities and other resources required for the 
adequate operation of the PIU and EU; and (c) promptly inform the Bank of any proposed 
changes in its organizational structure.
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall carry out, in a manner and under a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank, the maintenance program for the Madgalena River and the plan 
of mitigatory actions submitted to the Bank pursuant to paragraphs 3 (b) (1) and 3 (b) 
(2), respectively, of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Page  7
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
maintenance practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition including separate records and accounts to reflect the resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  8
(a)
that the Estatutos or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended or abrogated in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would affect, 
materially and adversely, the operations and financial condition of the Borrower or 
the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement; and
(b)
the Guarantor, by itself or in conjunction with any other competent 
authorities, shall have not put into effect during 1992, 1993 and 1994, and maintained 
thereafter, road user charges sufficient to cover 62%, 78% and 100%, respectively, of 
the total costs of maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of the public road 
network, all based in accordance with methodology, criteria and assumptions 
satisfactory to the Bank. As part of such criteria, the portion of fuel taxes below 
border prices (as defined in the Policy) shall not be treated as a road user charge.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
6.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the EU and the PIU have been established, fully staffed and 
made operational, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The date March 16, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Fondo Vial Nacional
Ministerio de Obras Publicas
   y Transporte
Avenida El Dorado
Centro Administrativo Nacional C.A.N.
Oficina 403
Santa Fe de Bogota
Telex:
Page  9
MOPT-FVN
45656-0 MOPT-CO
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO VIAL NACIONAL
By /s/ Jaime Garcia Parra
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works,             180,633,000        60%
    including
    supervision
    thereof
(2) Goods including           36,833,000        100% of foreign
    materials                                   expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'               2,360,000        100%
    services under
    Parts B.1 and
    B.2 of the
    Project
(4) Training under             1,790,000        100% of foreign
    Part B.3 of                                 expenditures
    the Project                                 and 65% of local
                                                expenditures
(5) Unallocated               44,384,000
                              __________
         TOTAL               266,000,000
                             ===========
Page  10
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $18,600,000 and $100,000, respectively, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1991; and (b) 
payments made for any investment or expenditure under Part A.2 (a) or (b) of the 
Project, or in respect of an Eligible Subproject for Magdalena River, unless the Bank 
shall have received: (1) a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the maintenance of 
the Magdalena River; and (2) an environmental assessment study, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of the respective investment or expenditure and a plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, of mitigatory actions related thereto.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises part of the 1991-1995 Road Investment Program and its 
objectives are to assist the Borrower in: (a) reducing transport costs; (b) 
strengthening the Borrower's project
preparation capabilities; (c) improving road maintenance planning and practices; (d) 
rationalizing the organizational structure of the Borrower; (e) supporting 
decentralization of its national road
system; and (f) improving the Borrower's environmental management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investments Program
 
1.
Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects.
 
2.
River transport improvements consisting of: (a) training and deepening of the 
main channel of the Madagalena river; (b) deferred dredging of the Canal del Dique; 
(c) upgrading of the Barrancabermeja Port installations through relocation of the 
existing transit shed and other buildings, and building of an additional berth and 
improvements of accesses to such Port; and (d)
acquisition and utilization of fixed navigation aids.
3.
A program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, consisting of: (a) 
acquisition and utilization of new road maintenance equipment; (b) rehabilitation and 
repair of existing maintenance equipment units; and (c) acquisition and utilization of 
laboratory instruments and weighing scales.
4.
A program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to improve the Borrower's 
road safety system consisting of the acquisition and utilization of vertical signs, 
road marking and acquisition and utilization of road barriers.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
A technical assistance program designed to improve the Borrower's capabilities 
in road design and engineering, road maintenance and civil works supervision and to 
provide technical
assistance in the planning and implementation of the decentralization process of the 
national road network, such program consisting of: (a) development and implementation 
of a comprehensive highway
Page  11
maintenance management system and an equipment management system; (b) development of a 
pavement design guide including new standards for pavement structural design; (c) 
preparation and application of a civil works supervision manual; (d) implementation of 
a computerized management information system; (e) review and updating of documents 
related to the preparation of road engineering studies including: (1) technical 
specifications for road construction; (2) new standards for road geometric design; and 
(3) manual on engineering norms and guidelines for the preparation of road final 
engineering studies; and (f) strengthening of MOPT's capabilities to plan, organize, 
coordinate, implement and evaluate training programs, including the hiring of the 
services of the Expert.
2.
Carrying out of the following studies: (a) a study to define the optimal size of 
the national road network and the appropriate mechanisms for a gradual and partial 
transfer of such network to the Departments; (b) a study to evaluate performance of 
road materials and pavements; (c) a study to address constraints in the private road 
construction industry; and (d) a study on the restructuring of the maintenance 
activities of DNYP including an analysis of utilizing chartering arrangements for the 
operation of the Borrower's dredgers and subcontracting maintenance works.
3.
A training program, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, consisting of: (a) 
carrying out of courses and seminars designed to strengthen the performance 
capabilities of the Borrower's personnel in areas such as: (1) road maintenance; (2) 
heavy equipment operation; (3) heavy equipment maintenance; (4) road planning and 
financing; (5) road design, construction and supervision; (6) bridge design and 
construction; (7) project environmental evaluation and control; (8) navigation and 
ports; (9) intermodal transport facilitation; and (10) computer technology, 
administration and clerical skills; (b) provision of on-the-job training to Borrower's 
personnel in the procedures and systems developed under Part B.1 (a) of the Project; 
and (c) a program of short-term fellowships for the Borrower's senior professional and 
management personnel.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1997
through   September 1, 2008
$11,085,000
 
On March 1, 2009
$11,045,000
 
Page  12
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding-Prequalification
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for civil works to be procured under the procedures referred to in A.1 
above and other civil works to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more shall be 
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Page  13
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,500,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $191,700,000, and, subject to 
paragraph (2) below, contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $9,500,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (1) each contract for civil works estimated to cost more 
than the equivalent of $500,000; (2) each contract for goods procured under the 
procedures referred to in Part A.1 hereof; and (3) the first two contracts for goods 
procured under the procedures referred to in Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
3.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Page  14
2.
Hiring of individual consultants under contracts estimated to cost $20,000 
equivalent or less shall be made directly by the Borrower pursuant to the provision of 
Part V of the Consultant
Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Borrower shall carry out each of the 
following actions:
1.
Complete, not later than June 30, 1993, the document on road technical 
specifications under Part B.1 (e) (1) of the Project.
2.
Complete, not later than June 30, 1993, the document on road geometric design 
standards under Part B.1 (e) (2) of the Project.
3.
Complete, not later than December 31, 1993, the manual on engineering norms and 
guidelines under Part B.1 (e) (3) of the Project.
4.
Adopt new prequalification guidelines for civil works bidding, satisfactory to 
the Bank, not later than April 30, 1993.
5.
Complete the civil works supervision manual under Part B.1 (c) of the Project 
not later than December 31, 1993. 
6.
Carry out an economic analysis, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, of the Borrower's road network not later than April 30, 1993.
7.
Install automatic traffic counters in, at least, thirty percent (30%) of all 
toll stations by April 30, 1993; fifty percent (50%) of all toll stations by December 
31, 1993; seventy-five
percent (75%) of all toll stations by December 31, 1994; and in all toll stations by 
December 31, 1995.
8.
Put into operation five sets of portable weighing scales by not later than April 
30, 1993 and eight additional sets of portable weighing scales by not later than 
December 31, 1993.
9.
Employ, not later than September 30, 1993 and thereafter, an Expert with 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
10.
(a)
Prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1993, a plan 
of action, satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate international transport procedures 
and regulations; and
(b)
carry out such plan of action in a manner and under a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank.
11.
Complete the pavement design guide under Part B.1 (b) of the Project not later 
than December 31, 1993.
12.
Establish and make operational, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and not 
later than December 31, 1993, the computerized management information system under 
Part B.1 (d) of the Project.
13.
Carry out and furnish to the Bank the study under Part B.2 (c) of the Project 
not later than June 30, 1994.
14.
Carry out and furnish to the Bank the study under Part B.2 (b) of the Project 
not later than December 31, 1994.
15.
Complete and furnish to the Bank final engineering designs, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for all roads Eligible Subprojects referred to in the Eligible List not later 
than June 30, 1993.
Page  15
16.
Complete and furnish to the Bank, not later than April 30, 1993, environmental 
guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, to be applied in the implementation of the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 15,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  16
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
