Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3454 IND
        (BAPEDAL Development Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 18, 1992
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3454 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "BAPEDAL" means the Borrower's Environmental Impact
Management Agency established under Presidential Decree No. 23/1990
dated June 5, 1990;
      (b)   "PMO" means the Program Management Office established
within BAPEDAL for purposes of coordination and administration of
external resource mobilization for BAPEDAL;
      (c)   "Five Year BAPEDAL Development Plan" means BAPEDAL's
program of priorities and activities for its Fiscal Years 1992/93
through 1997/98, as approved by BAPEDAL on February 24, 1992; and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank of
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Page  3
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
BAPEDAL  with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
Page  4
appropriate environmental, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. In order to assist BAPEDAL in  the carrying out
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause BAPEDAL to employ consul-
tants, including a donor coordination advisor, two consultancy
assistance officers, an accountant, and an administrative officer,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause BAPEDAL to
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, copies of the
inception reports, progress reports, draft final reports and final
reports, as the case may be, of each of the activities under Part A
of the Project.
      Section 3.04. For each of the Borrower's Fiscal Year BAPEDAL
shall prepare a detailed work program in accordance with the Five
Year BAPEDAL Development Plan. For such purposes, on September 30 of
each year, commencing on September 30, 1992, BAPEDAL shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a proposed
detailed work program for the following Borrower's Fiscal Year.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project, maintain the PMO headed by a qualified and experience
officer and assigned with such powers, responsibilities, staffing
and funds as shall be required to enable it to accomplish its
purposes. In this regard, by September 30, 1992, the Borrower shall
cause BAPEDAL to employ and, thereafter, assign to the PMO the two
consultancy assistance officers, the accountant, and the
administrative officer provided for in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of BAPEDAL and other
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   prin- ciples consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
Page  5
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Presidential Decree No. 23/1990 dated June 5, 1990 shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of BAPEDAL to carry out
the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the additional event specified in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that for the duration of the Project, BAPEDAL has employed
and assigned to the PMO the services of a donor coordination advisor
provided for in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  6
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINMINISTRY               44319 DEPKEU - IA
                   Jakarta                   45799 DJMLN - IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                         SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'
      Services                 11,300,000       100%
(2)   Unallocated                 700,000
                               __________
Page  7
      TOTAL                    12,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
implementing the Five Year BAPEDAL Development Plan through, inter
alia: (a) strengthening the institutional capacity and role of
BAPEDAL and other agencies of the borrower responsible for
environmental management and pollution control; and (b) designing
and implementing adequate pollution control measures at the central
and regional levels.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      Provision of technical assistance, inter alia, to: (i) review
the Borrower's regulatory framework for pollution control to clarify
and strengthen the mandate of BAPEDAL and  other relevant regional
agencies; (ii) design and develop pollution control systems at the
central and regional levels; and (iii) support the establishment of
new, and strengthen the institutional capacity of existing, regional
agencies and laboratories involved in the control of environmental
pollution.
Part B:
      Design, development and implementation of a recruitment and
training program for the staff of BAPEDAL and the Borrower's
relevant environmental regional agencies.
Part C:
      Strengthen PMO institutional capacity for external resource
mobilization and administration through, inter alia, the provision
of technical assistance.
                           *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
October 15, 1997                           220,000
April 15, 1998                             225,000
October 15, 1998                           235,000
April 15, 1999                             245,000
Page  8
October 15, 1999                           255,000
April 15, 2000                             265,000
October 15, 2000                           275,000
April 15, 2001                             285,000
October 15, 2001                           295,000
April 15, 2002                             310,000
October 15, 2002                           320,000
April 15, 2003                             330,000
October 15, 2003                           345,000
April 15, 2004                             360,000
October 15, 2004                           370,000
April 15, 2005                             385,000
October 15, 2005                           400,000
April 15, 2006                             415,000
October 15, 2006                           435,000
April 15, 2007                             450,000
October 15, 2007                           465,000
April 15, 2008                             485,000
October 15, 2008                           505,000
April 15, 2009                             525,000
October 15, 2009                           545,000
April 15, 2010                             565,000
October 15, 2010                           585,000
April 15, 2011                             610,000
October 15, 2011                           635,000
April 15, 2012                             660,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                         Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
Page  10
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
