Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3453 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Third National Roads Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 16, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3453 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Fondo Vial Nacional (the Borrower), having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to two hundred and sixty-six million dollars ($266,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan 
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor:
(a)
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe 
that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated 
expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly 
to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are 
needed to meet such expenditures;
(b)
shall transfer to the Borrower the necessary funds required to meet its 
obligations under Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement; and
(c)
shall, through the Guarantor's CONFIS, supervise the execution of the 
Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth, or referred to, in the 
Performance Plan. Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the Guarantor shall not amend, 
waive, abrogate, suspend or fail to enforce the Performance Plan or any provision 
thereof.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor, through DNP, shall complete and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than March 31, 1993, an analysis of the relationship between user 
charges and estimated costs attributable to each vehicle type, all in accordance with 
a methodology acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor has expressed its Policy to the Bank and hereby 
undertakes to maintain the said Policy in the terms it has been expressed.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  3
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Edificio de los Ministerios
Santa Fe de Bogota,
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIHACIENDA
44473 MHACCO
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Jaime Garcia Parra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
