Report No. 23777
Report No: I064508 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/01/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: RUSSIAN FEDERATION      Project ID: P064508
Project: TREASURY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    Task Team Leader: Allister J. Moon
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 9, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m): 400.00
Bank Approval: April 30, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSPE     Sector: BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall objectives of the project are to:
(a) Ensure effective implementation of the budget, and enable the MoF to
maintain budget oversight; and
(b) Provide a transparent system of accounting that shows the utilization
of the financial resources of the country and enables management and audit
of these resources.
This will be achieved by assisting the Government in establishing a fully
functioning Treasury, including the associated legal/regulatory framework,
policies, systems and operational procedures.
I.A.3. Project Description:
As mentioned above, the Government, in consultation with the IMF, is in
the process of implementing several key policy actions to enable the
Treasury to be set up and function in accordance with international norms.
The project will assist the Government in this venture and help in
designing and implementing a full function automated Treasury system
capable of serving as an effective instrument for budget execution and
cash management. The proposed project would provide technical assistance,
computer equipment and software and training to enable the Government to
design, develop, test and implement processes, procedures and systems,
related regulations and training programs for budget execution, Treasury
operations and cash management. The Government also intends for
development of the Treasury system to be completed in close consultation
with the supreme audit institution, the Chamber of Accountsand to ensure
that the Chamber had ready access to the data in the system so as to
enable it to perform its functions in an efficeint manner.
The project is designed to provide sufficient support to enable a
comprehensive reform in public expenditure management systems, leading to
specific, measurable improvements in various dimensions of public
expenditure control and transparency. Development of computer-based
information systems are essential to these reforms and inevitably a major
part of the investment will be in computer systems for the Treasury.
However, the project would not merely automate the present budget



execution system, but rather bring about improvements in the: (a) control
framework for budget execution; (b) accounting system and associated
operational procedures; (c) fiscal reporting system to provide MoF
management the type of information they require for decision making and
control.  Preparation of the project will include an institutional review
that will examine the legislative framework for treasury operations,
processes and procedures for execution of the federal budget, the
functions and staffing of the FT, organizational structure, management and
incentive structures, aiming to identify key institutional constraints on
achievement of the FT's objectives and identify strategies to address
these constraints. An integrated program for Treasury development will be
based on progress in each of these areas. Outputs from these areas will be
coordinated in an overall program identifying a sequence of system
developments consistent with the proposed investment program and linked to
its expected phasing. The program would also incorporate targets for key
indicators of performance of the treasury system. For example, effective
functioning of the treasury system should result in reduction in payment
arrears , increased consistency between approved budgets and actual
expenditure, improvements in timeliness and accuracy of financial
reporting, etc. The indicators would be used to monitor progress of the
Treasury development program.
As noted above, improvements in some areas of public expenditure control
necessarily depend not only on implementation of the Treasury system but
also on broader public expenditure management reform, especially in the
field of budget formulation. In the course of project development,
progress indicators will be distinguished between primary measures of
implementation of the Treasury system itself, and broader indicators of
public expenditure management which rely in part on the effectiveness of
the Treasury, but also on wider features of the budget management system
and the Government's overall commitment to improved public resource
management.
A description of the current status of the Treasury system, the remaining
issues and gaps in this system, and the Government's plans to address
these issues is given at Annex 11.
Components:
I. Consulting services: (a) Policy and design; (b) Integrator design
Consultancy; (c) Quality assurance of Design and Implementation work; (d)
Technical support and implementation services required for the
implementation of the new Treasury system; (e) Project management
II. Equipment and Software
III. Training. Training courses to cover specific technical and functional
areas.
Contingencies
Physical
Price
-2-



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
-3 -



Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Allister J. Moon        2/13/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   2/25/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Pradeep K. Mitra         2/28/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



