Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23718-RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 231 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FORA
TREASURY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
US5 400 MILLION TREASURY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
May 7, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)
Russia Country Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Ruble (Rbi)
RBL I = US$.032
US$1 = 31.26
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP             Agreed Procedures
APL            Adaptable Program Loan
CAS            CountrT Assistance Strategy
CBR            Central Bank of Russia
CIS            Commonwealth of Independent States
COA            Chart of Accounts
DO             Development Objective
EA             Environmental Assessment
EBF            Extra-Budgetary Funds
ESW            Economic Sector Work
FER            Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
FERFID         Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial
Institutions Development
FID            Financial Institutions Development
FT             Federal Treasuiy
GEF            Global Environmental Facility
GPN            General Procurement Notice
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
ILO            International Labor Organization
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MoD            Ministry of Defense
MoF            Ministry of Finance
NGOs           Nongovernmental Organizations
PCD            Project Concept Document
PDL            Portfolio Development Loan
PDO            Program Development Objective
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PS             Procurement Specialists
PSR            Project Supervision Report
SA             Special Account
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SF             Source of Fund
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
TA             Technical Assistance
ToR            Terms of Reference
TS             Treasury System
TSA            Treasurv Single Account
VPN            Virtual Private Network
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Director:   Cheryl Gray
Sector Manager:    Helga Muller
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Allister Moon



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
TREASURY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  7
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     11
3. Benefits and target population                                                    12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          19
2. Financial                                                                         20
3. Technical                                                                         20
4. Institutional                                                                     21
5. Environmental                                                                     22
6. Social                                                                            22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                23



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     23
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            25
2. Other                                                                              25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           44
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     61
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            65
Annex 11: Current Status of Treasury Systems and Remaining Issues                        67
Annex 12: Implementation Plan                                                            77
MAP(S)
IBRD 27188R



RUSS1AN FEDERATION
Treasury Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPE
Date: September 18, 2001                          Team Leader: Allister J. Moon
Country Director: Julian F.Schweitzer             Sector Manager: Helga W. Muller
Project ID: P064508                               Sector(s): BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period          Borrower
(Bank  FY)__        _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
IBRD            Others       Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date       Date
APL 1      231.00    52.0   213.00      444.00    10/31/2002  12/31/2007 Russian Federation
Loan/ Loan
C red it  _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
APL 2       169.00   77.2    50.00      219.00    10/31/2006  12/31/2010 Russian Federation
Loanl Loan
Credit  _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _                            _ _ _ _
Total      400.00           263.00      663.00
[X Loan      [ )Credit    [ ] Grant    [] Guarantee     [] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (USSm): 400
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terns Available on File: 0 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Grace period (yearm): 5                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     263.00           0.00        263.00
IBRD                                                           0.00         400.00        400.00
Total-                                                       263.00         400.00        663.00



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF RUSSLAN FEDERATION
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Borrower: The Russian Federation
Responsible Agency: Minister of Finance (MoF)
Address: 9 llyinka Street, Moscow 103097
Contact Person: T. Nesterenko, Head of the Treasury and Deputy Minister of Finance
Tel: 7-095-298-9640          Fax: 7-095-298-0059           Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004      2005      2006      2007      2008       2009
Annual     3.20       4.00     37.60     48.30     60.45      77.45
Cumulative     3.20      7.20     44.80      93.10    153.55    231.00
Project implementation period: APL- First Tranche- Bank FY 2003-2008
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OCS PAD r .,  A2



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The project supports the Government's ongoing, comprehensive reform program relating to federal budget
execution processes and procedures. This program covers the design and setting up of a Treasury function
to maintain oversight over the budget implementation process and enable a transparent system of
accounting that shows the utilization of the financial resources of the country and enables management and
audit of these resources.
The first phase of the proeram will support the work already under way as part of the Governments
Treasury reform program and would cover: (a) the design and implementation of new business processes
that would ensure that all government expenditures and receipts are routed through the Treasury, aUl
govemment resources are consolidated in Treasury account(s) held at the Central Bank, (with the exception
of financial resources of Government agencies located outside the Russian Federation and financial
resources in hard currency) and an extension in the coverage of these processes to include targeted budget
funds and off budget resources (with the exception of state off budget funds); (b) the design of the
legislative framework and associated procedures and regulations that would provide the legal under-pinning
for the treasury system; (c) the design of information systems required to implement the new business
processes; (d) the implementation of the new system, at a set of designated pilot sites; and (e) the
replication of the system's core functions across at least 40 major regions so that they can cover the major
part of the federal budget. Implementation of this phase of the project would enable the new system to
cover not less than 75-80% of all govemment transactions.
The second phase of the program would replicate the system to the remaining regions and will cover the
entire Government budget.
The detailed implementation strategy is described in Annex 2.
Dividing the program in this manner has two advantages:
*   The first phase of the program would enable a test of the program in a pilot environment and
extension of its core functions to the major oblasts so as to cover the major part of the government
budget. Implementation of this phase would therefore enable a realization of a substantial part of
the advantages of implementing a full treasury system. Additionally, at the end of this phase the
government could take a check point to make any required adjustments in the design of the reform
program in the light of the experience gained in the first phase, before it rolls out the systems
across the rest of the country.
*   If this operation was designed as a single investment loan, the borrower would need to pay
commitment charges for the unutilized part of the loan during the earlier years. The Government
has therefore requested the split envisaged in this program.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objectives of the project are to:
(a)    Ensure conditions for effective implementation of the budget, and enable the MoF to
maintain budget oversight; and
(b)    Provide a transparent system of accounting that shows the utilization of the financial
resources of the Government and enables management and audit of these resources.
- 3 -



This will be achieved by assisting the Government in establishing a fully functioning Treasury, including
the associated legal/regulatory framework, policies, systems and operational procedures.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(i)    Implementation of a revised chart of accounts and budget classification for all government
expenditure and revenue;
(ii)   Revisions to Budget Code drafted and adopted;
(iii)   New management processes and expenditure controls for budget execution in place and
functioning (expenditure limits, commitment recording);
(iv)    Treasury single account established at the Central Bank of Russia (CBR);
(v)    Proportion of total Government payments processing centralized through Treasury (with
the exception of payment operations of government agencies located outside of Russia);
(vi)    Improved cash management for the government as a whole; reduction in the total amount
of the balances of the bank accounts of the regional treasury offices as a percent of total
expenditure;
(vii)    Treasury general ledger systems operational with required functionality;
(viii)   MoF/treasury/agencies comprehensive accounting reports produced on both cash and
commitment basis for govermment consistent with international standards;
The performance indicators that would be used to monitor progress in the program implementation and
gauge the success of the full reform program of federal budget execution, including the second phase,
would be:
(i)    Timely and reliable budgetary reports produced for MoF by Treasury;
(ii)   Reduction in unjustified expenditures beyond budget authorization as shown by index of
divergence between budget appropriations and execution;
(iii)   Reductions in the total stock and annual increments of budget arrears; and
(iv)    Timely presentation of fiscal accounts for extemal audit.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-7[IFC/R 2001-7]  Date of latest CAS discussion: February 6, 2001
The objectives of the project support several key areas of the CAS . Provision of more effective tools for
aggregate cash management will assist in the goal of improved macroeconomic management. The Treasury
systern will provide a basis for increased efficiency and transparency in public resource allocation. The
project is intended to remedy key system weaknesses which increase vulnerability to corruption and will
provide the base for the authorities to work progressively toward a govemment-wide system of intemal
audit, as well as improving the transparency and public disclosure of public accounts. Treasury
development is a key component of a wider program of support to improvement in public sector
management, including public administration, tax and customs administration and subnational fiscal
management.
-4-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Improvements in fiscal management are an essential element of Russia's economic reform program.
Weaknesses are evident in each of the major areas of budget management In budget formulation, core
problems include the fragmentation arising from the prevalence of targeted extrabudgetary funds and use of
off budget resources, the absence of mechanisms to ensure consistency with macroeconomic constraints
throughout the formulation process, lack of clarity in the respective roles of the executive and legislature in
budget formulation and problems associated with unresolved issues in inter-governmental budgetary
relationships. In budget execution, major weaknesses include the lack of means to control expenditure
commitments and the consequent frequent generation of arrears, the lack of comprehensive cash
management and of a treasury single account arising from an incomplete coverage of the Treasury system
and the absence of timely reporting on budget outputs. Strengthening audit and evaluation of budget
execution will depend heavily on improving the capability and effectiveness of the Chamber of Accounts,
which carries the responsibility for extemal audit.
The importance of development of the Treasury was emphasized in earlier Bank ESW especially the 1996
report "Fiscal Management in Russia", which provided a broad review of priorities in fiscal management
and the key role of the treasury within the required overall reform program. The IMF Fiscal Affairs
Department completed a review of financial management (Government Financial Management - Key issues
and Options for Improvement, Feb. 1998) which included detailed recommendations on Treasury systems
which have been drawn on substantially in the Treasury development so far. The Bank's 1998 fiscal policy
note on budget management recommended that priority be given to development of the Treasury, noting the
need for enhancement of information systems and a broad program of training and staff development.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In Russia the fiscal situation has been under stress, as was evidenced by the federal Government deficit
exceeding its targets and as a result the authorities had to resort to a system of weekly cash rationing in the
face of an insufficient revenue collections. A disturbing manifestation of this fiscal stress had been the
progressive accumulation of expenditure arrears. Such a situation is a clear indication of the critical need
for more effective budget execution and expenditure management systems capable of exerting better control
over public expenditures.
In the process of transformation from a centrally planned to a market economy, the current public
expenditure management system will have to shed some of its previous functions and take on new tasks in
order to be an efficient instrument of economic management. Specifically, past preoccupation with
compliance with centrally issued directives to fulfill the planned targets is no longer relevant. Other major
weaknesses in the former public expenditure management system are:
*   Budget classifications, which do not meet the intemational standards and do not allow meaningful
budget monitoring;
*   Inappropriate legal framework for budget preparation, approval, implementation and monitoring;
*   Weaknesses in the macro-economic framework needed for formulation of the budget and
elaboration of revenue and expenditure projections;
*   Lack of administrative capacity to adjust the budget in response to changing circumstances;
*   Lack of reliable, comprehensive and timely accounting information;
*   Underdeveloped debt and cash management operations that are not linked to overall budget
management; and
*   Dispersion of budget resources in many spending unit accounts, leading to unnecessarily high cash
balances within the public sector and undermining Govermment's ability to manage aggregate cash
-5 -



flow and minimize public sector borrowing.
*   Inadequate capacity of the clearing and settlement system of the Central Bank of Russia.
To tackle the tasks of macroeconomic management and make expenditure planning and implementation
more efficient, new procedures will have to be devised and new techniques and systems implemented for
fiscal institutions.
The Govermment needs to implement an improved system of expenditure control comprising the following
elements: control over commitments, replacing cash rationing with a more orderly system of financial
planning, and a sound accounting system for Government. These immediate recommendations, if
implemented, will considerably broaden the functions of the Federal Treasury (FT). To fulfill this role it
will be necessary to extend the Treasury system simultaneously in a number of directions: e.g., develop a
financial management information system; improve controls over revenue collection and expenditure
implementation procedures; and take a number of supporting measures to strengthen the Federal Treasury.
It is recognized that an improvement in FT operations, while a necessary condition for controlling arrears,
is not sufficient for resolving expenditure control problems. A broader strategy of reform requires improved
processes of budget formulation and better budget preparation techniques, aiming at ensuring realistic
provision for agreed programs in the approved annual budget. Some of the issues which would need to be
tackled in this broader agenda have been discussed in earlier ESW (Fiscal Management Report 1996 and
the 1998 and 2001 fiscal policy notes on budget management), including clarification of the roles of
executive and legislature in budget formulation, processes for coordination of top down macro planning and
sectoral policy and expenditure analysis, and the need for strengthened capacity in forecasting and budget
preparation. While this wider agenda is not directly addressed within the program for strengthening the
treasury budget execution , the latter will provide a more positive environment for addressing problems of
budget formulation in future. A functioning Treasury system would be able to provide some of the
information on current and previous years actuals, on areas where budget formulation has been weak and
forecasting of commitments poor, in order to improve budget formulation in subsequent years. By
providing more timely and reliable data on budget performance, and making that data available for public
scrutiny, including through formal audit procedures, the basis is provided for increased accountability and
stronger incentives to improve realism and responsiveness to public interests in budget formulation.
In response to the need for a better expenditure management system the authorities have made significant
progress in developing a Federal Treasury. Subsequent to its initiation in 1992, the authorities have
established an extensive network of regional and local offices at the oblast and rayon levels. The FT is also
in the process of establishing improved operating procedures for executing the budget, initially focusing on
a computer-based payment system, and is working towards establishing a comprehensive system of
government accounting. The Govertment has been developing a budget code, aimed at providing a sound
legal framework for strengthening the formulation and execution of the budget. A key Government
resolution (No. 1082) requires all federal spending units to open nominal accounts at the Federal Treasury
for budget allocations and funding. This resolution requires the FT to transfer the Spending Units'
controlled cash balances scattered at commercial banks, to accounts controlled by the FT offices and held
mainly at the Central Bank of Russia. The resolution requires that tax and customs revenues be deposited
at FT-controlled bank accounts and consolidated into the TSA. In effect, the resolution expands the
coverage and degree of control over budget execution by the FT, as well as enhances its ability to improve
Government cash management.
The Government has devised its longer term reform program based on IMF advice. The proposed project
would support the Government efforts to reform the system of federal budget execution. The project
- 6 -



proposes to support development of the Federal Treasury and a computerized Treasury management
system, encompassing the full range of functions needed to manage the Government's budget. The creation
of the Treasury offices responsible for the cash execution of the budget--including oversight of extra
budgetary and local budget operations-- and implementation of associated systems and procedures, is an
essential step to meet the needs of fnancial administration in a market economy.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
As mentioned above the project supports the Governments' comprehensive reform program relating to
federal budget execution processes. The first phase of the program envisages design and installation of the
new system and procedures in the Central Office of the Federal Treasury, three pilot regions and
replication of the core functions of this system across, at least, 40 Oblasts. This would cover about 75-80%
of Government expenditures and receipts and would enable verification of the effectiveness of the design of
the system and its live operation over a significant part of the country. It would provide the Government a
check point to make adjustments in the program itself, or in associated up-stream (for example, budget
formulation) or downstream ( internal and external auditing) processes as may be necessary to ensure
success of the treasury system.
Compliance with key performance indicators under the Phase I Loan would function as triggers for
consideration of the second phase of the program for Bank support. They include design and
implementation of key policy reforms required as part of the implementation of a full function Treasury
system and satisfactory progress in the implementation of the new systems at the sites selected for the first
phase of the program. The performance indicators selected for this purpose from the first phase of the
program are:
(i)  Implementation of a revised chart of accounts and budget classification for all government
expenditure and revenue;
(ii)  Revisions to Budget Code drafted and adopted by parliament;
(iii)  New management processes and expenditure controls for budget execution in place and
functioning (expenditure limits, commitment recording and their execution);
(iv)  Treasury single account(s) established at the Central Bank of Russia (CBR);
(v)   Proportion of government total payments processed through the Treasury (with the
exception of payment operations of govemment agencies located outside of Russia);
(vi)  Reduction of balances on the accounts of regional federal treasury offices as a percent of
total expenditure;
(vii)  Treasury general ledger systems operational with required functionality;
(viii)  Improvement of MoF/Treasury/agencies comprehensive accounting reports produced for
government consistent with international standards.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed descriptioni and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
As mentioned above, the Government, in consultation with the IMF, is in the process of implementing
several key policy actions to enable the Treasury to be set up and function in accordance with international
norms. The project will assist the Government in this venture and help in designing and implementing a full
- 7 -



function automated Treasury system capable of serving as an effective instrument for budget execution and
cash management. The proposed project would provide technical assistance, computer equipment and
software and training to enable the Govemment to design, develop, test and implement processes,
procedures and systems, related regulations and training programs for budget execution, Treasury
operations and cash management. The Government also intends for development of the Treasury system to
be completed in close cooperation with the supreme audit institution, the Chamber of Accounts and to
ensure that the Chamber has ready access to the data in the system so as to enable it to perform its
functions in an efficient manner.
The project is designed to provide sufficient support to enable a comprehensive reform in public
expenditure management systems, leading to specific, measurable improvements in various dimensions of
public expenditure control and transparency. Development of computer-based information systems are
essential to these reforms and inevitably a major part of the investment will be in computer systems for the
Treasury. However, the project would not merely automate the present budget execution system, but rather
bring about improvements in the: (a) control framework for budget execution; (b) accounting system and
associated operational procedures; (c) fiscal reporting system to provide MoF management the type of
information they require for decision making and control. An institutional review ( currently in progress)
will examine the legislative framework for treasury operations, processes and procedures for execution of
the federal budget, the functions and staffing of the FT, organizational structure, management and incentive
structures, aiming to identify key institutional constraints on achievement of the FT's objectives and identify
strategies to address these constraints. An integrated program for Treasury development will be based on
progress in each of these areas. Outputs from these areas will be coordinated in an overall program
identifying a sequence of system developments consistent with the proposed investment program and linked
to its expected phasing. The program would also incorporate targets for key indicators of performance of
the treasury system. For example, effective functioning of the treasury system should result in reduction in
payment arrears, increased consistency between approved budgets and actual expenditure, improvements in
timeliness and accuracy of financial reporting, etc. The indicators would be used to monitor progress of the
Treasury development program.
As noted above, improvements in some areas of public expenditure control necessarily depend not only on
implementation of the Treasury system but also on broader public expenditure management reform,
especially in the field of budget formulation. In the course of project development, progress indicators will
be distinguished between primary measures of implementation of the Treasury system itself, and broader
indicators of public expenditure management which rely in part on the effectiveness of the Treasury, but
also on wider features of the budget management system and the Government's overall commitment to
improved public resource management.
A description of the current status of the Treasury system, the remaining issues and gaps in this system,
and the Government's plans to address these issues is given at Annex 11.
- 8 -



Summary of Project Costs
dirtcatlve         1    ar   1 
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of   flnancnr:_
jUSSM)    Total   j_______   | _        l
1. Consulting services: (a) Policy and  Public Financial  30.30   6.8     11.00       4.8
design; (b) Integrator design    Management
Consultancy; (c) Quality assurance of
Design and Implementation work; (d)
Technical support and implementation
services required for the
implementation of the new Treasury
system;
11. Equipment and Software                           359.05      80.9    188.22       81.5
111. Training. Training courses to cover              12.46       2.8      8.72        3.8
specific technical and functional areas.
IV. Incremental operating Costs (PIU)                  6.00       1.4      5.00        2.2
Contingencies-Physical                                 6.79       1.5      5.25        2.3
Contingencies- Price                                  27.10       6.1      10.50       4.5
Total Project Costs                 441.70      99.5    228.69       99.0
Front-end fee                    2.31       0.5       2.31       1.0
Total Financing Required                   444.01     100.0    231.00     100.0
-9-



Details of Project Costs
Sector      Indicative    Bank-      Duties &      Govt.       TOTAL
Costs*     Financing     Taxes     Financing       Govt.
(lJSSM)      (USSM)     (USSM)      (excluding    Financing
duties and     (USSM)
taxes)
-(USSM)
I. Technical Assistance
(a) Policy and design: (V Review of existing  BF - Public   13.20        11.00       2.20             0          2.20
budget classifications and design of a revised  Financial
chart of accounts conforming with ihe IMF  Management
GFS cla.ssification methodology; (ii)
Development of the legal regulatory and
operationalframework including guidelines,
procedures, regulations, fonns and operating
nianualsfor budget execution expenditure
forecasting, fiscal reporling; cash
management; riii) Design and & development
of,functional specificationsfor the TLS and
associated technolog) architectures ;(iv)
Quality assurance of design work
(b) -Integrator design consultancy       BF - Public            8.8          0                       8.8          8.8
Financial
Management
(c) Technical support and implementation  BF - Public           8.3          0          0            8.3          8.3
services requiredfor the implementation of  Financial
ihe new lreasury system.                 Management
Total Technical Assistance                                    30.30       11.00       2.20         17.10         19.30
11. Equipment and Software
(a) Equipment (servers, workstations and                    202.22       105.65      31.03         74.21        105.24
associated peripherals. svstems, office and
network softwhare) for th1e centralfacilities at
the Treasury Headquarters, oblast and rayon
Treasury offices.
(b) Application Softwarefor7 Treasury system,                128.03       91.24      25.60         11.20         36.80
application development tools, at the center,
regional and district units and spending units
as necessary.
(c) Secure information systems required by the                28.80        0.00                    28.80         28.80
ministry of defense and security agencies
Total Equipment and Software                                 359.05      188.22      56.63        114.20.       170.83
- 10-



Sector    Indicative   Bank-     Duties &    Govt.      TOTAL
Costs*    Financing   Taxes     Financing     GovL
(USSM)     (USSM)     (USSM)    (excluding  Financing
duties and   (US$M)
taxes)
-(USSM)
HL Training
Training courses to cover specific technical  BF -PFM  12.46       8.72      1.74         2.0        3.74
and functional areas.
IV. Incremental Operating Costs (PIM)                    6.0       5.0       1.0          0.0         1.0
Total Investment Cost                                 407.81     212.93    61.57       133.30      194.87
Contingencies
Physical                                                6.79      5.25                               1.53
Price                                                  27.10      10.50                             16.60
Front End Fees                                          2.31      2.31
Total Project Costs               444.00      231.0                             213.00
Total Financing Required                444.00      231.0                            213.00
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A set of critical policy measures and institutional reforms have been identified together with the
Government and the IMF as being necessary for implementation of a fully functioning Treasury. These are
outlined below:
(i)   Development of amendments necessary to the Budget Code, the current organic budget
law, to permit the imposition of expenditure control regulations. Other revisions to the
Code and related regulations will be required to ensure proper management of public
moneys and property with specific emphasis on: (a) the collection and custody of public
moneys (including the banking arrangements); (b) public expenditure management
(including control processes and the linkages with appropriations); (c) the accounting
system; (d) the role and responsibilities of officials; (e) control and management of public
property; (f) borrowing and investment (specifically the management of the public debt);
and (g) reporting and audit;
(ii)  The development of a new budget classification structure and new Chart of Accounts. The
new Chart of Accounts is to be run in parallel with the current Chart of Accounts for the
first year and fully implemented (including, Budget Preparation, Budget Execution, Fiscal
Reporting and Audit) for subsequent years;
(iii)  Implementation of a transaction-based Treasury Ledger System embodying the new Chart
of Accounts;



(iv)  implementation of effective Public Expenditure Control Regulations to manage the level
and timing of expenditures and the extent of arrears, including: (a) Financial Control (i.e.
the approval and authorization stages of proposals to spend public moneys before a
commitment is entered into); (b) Accounting Control (i.e. including the certification of
claims for payment before a payment is made); and (c) Audit Control (i.e. the ex post
review of expenditure undertaken) See item (i) above regarding the amendments necessary
to the current Budget Law to pernit these controls;
(v)   Centralization of all federal budget payments through the Treasury and consolidation of
bank accounts to a single account at the Central Bank of Russia (with the exception of
accounts of agencies located outside of Russia); Progressive implementation for
Government during FY2000 with completion by the end of FY2002. All spending unit
accounts at the Commercial Banks to be closed by the end of 2002. (dates are dependent
on the progress in project implementation);
(vi)  Reduce reliance on physical movements of cash in the Budget Revenue Collection and
Execution processes by effecting general payments of the Government through electronic
movements between bank account balances through the banking system.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Establishment of a Treasury system has two direct benefits: (a) it enables better cash management by
placing all government financial resources under the control of the Treasury; and (b) it ensures that
budgetary expenditures are in accordance with the approved budget by centralizing all payments related to
the budget through the Treasury and instituting appropriate controls. More generally, systems developed
under the project would enable access to timely, accurate and consistent financial information. This will
improve resource planning, budgeting and public expenditure management and control and the capacity to
properly fornulate and execute fiscal policies. Consistency in the classification of expenditure items and an
effective system to control and monitor cash flows would enhance transparency and accountability in the
fiscal process.
The target population is the public as a whole. The specific interventions under this project affect all line
ministries and public sector agencies funded by the central budget.
4. Hnstitutional and implementation arrangements:
lampiementing Arrangements. The Treasury Development Project is a part of Federal Program of
treasury System Modemization to be implemented during the period 2000-2006. A Steering Committee,
which is headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the RF, is going to monitor the Program. The Committee
consists of representatives from Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade,
Ministry of Taxes and Duties, Central Bank, State Duma, Accounts Chamber, and other interested bodies,
and is going to meet at least once in 3 months.
The key role in Program coordination lies with the Ministry of Finance. It is responsible for Program
implementation, including preparation and implementation of the Program plans; preparation of terms of
references, technical specifications; selection of contractors; signing of contracts, etc. For coordination of
Program activities within the MOF, a Directorate of the Program, headed by the Deputy Minister of
Finan-ce, has been established. The Directorate consists of the representatives form the Main Departments
of the Federal Treasury, Budget Department, Department for Interbudget Relations, Department for
- 12 -



Information Technology, and Department for Intemational Coordination and Extemal Debt Management,
and is responsible for the project coordination and control. The Program Directorate meets at least once in
a quarter.
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER) has been
nominated as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Project. FER will be responsible for activities
related to project monitoring, administration, accounting, disbursement, procurement and periodic progress
reporting to the Bank. FER will maintain the Project Special Account, and will disburse the funds under
the project within five days after MOF authorization. FER reports to the MOF Project Unit.
FER is a non-commercial, non-profit foundation founded in July 1996. Presently, the founders are
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, Ministry of Industry Science and
Technology, Central Bank of Russia, Ministry of Transport, Leontief Center, and Foundation of Housing
Reform, State Committee for Construction, as well as Agency of Restructuring of Credit Organizations.
FER is currently implementing six World Bank financed projects: (i) Financial Institutions Development
(Loan 37340-RU); (ii) Enterprise Support (Loan 37630-RU); (iii) Enterprise Housing Diversity (Loan
40120-RU); (iv) Sustainable Forestry Pilot (PDL grant and Loan 45520-RU); (v) Northern Restructuring
(PDL grant and Loan 46110-RU); (vi) Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance (Loan 45280-RU). It was also
the implementing agency for the preparation of the Treasury Development Project, financed by PDL grant
and TF25812.
Governance over the FER's activities is through the Foundation Board which is a supervisory body
consisting of fourteen members headed by two Co-Chairpersons (First Deputy Minister of Industry Science
and Technology, and Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank of Russia) with support of Executive Secretary
of the Board. Board meetings are conducted annually or more frequently as required. Minutes are kept for
all the meetings. The main functions of the Board are to approve changes to the Charter; major
restructuring of activities; the annual budget; changes to the organizational structure and staffing
(salaries); the annual report of FER including audited financial statements; the structure and composition of
Project Management Committees (PMC's).
In addition, a Project Group is going to be established within the MOF. The Project Group will help the
MOF with project implementation and monitoring of the project progress. It will consist of the Head of the
Project Group, Deputy Head, Senior System Manager, Manager of Information Component, Manager of
the Legal Base Development Component, and the assistant. The head of the Project Group is going to be
nominated by the Program Directorate and will report to the MOF and the FER Administrative Manager.
Project Operating Manual. To facilitate the management and implementation of the project, a detailed
draft Operating Manual was prepared together by the FER and MOF, and submitted to the Bank for review
just after the Negotiations.
Financial Management. A Financial Management Capacity Assessment (FMCA) was carried out for the
project and summary of the report is attached in Annex 6. FER capacity satisfies Bank financial
management requirements; FER is ready for project implementation.
Significant amount of project funds will be spent on the procurement of equipment, that will be transferred
to the regional branches of the Federal Treasury. Therefore, special attention will need to be paid to the
safeguarding of such assets in the regions. All regional branches will prepare an annual inventory of the
equipment acquired with project funds, and will submit reports on the inventory to FER. In addition, at
- 13-



least twice during project implementation, KRU MOF will check the existence and use of such equipment
in the regions.
Financial Management System. The financial management system of the FER is very well designed and
all necessary internal control procedures in respect of disbursement, safeguarding of assets, segregation of
duties are in place. Project accounts and financial reporting to the Bank, both at the project and entity level,
will be the responsibility of FER. Project accounts will be maintained in the FER financial accounting
system PSQL. The Financial Monitoring Reports, formats of which were agreed after Negotiations, will be
prepared quarterly, and submitted to the Bank for review within 45 days after the end of the reporting
quarter.
Review of resumes and the Bank's past experience with FER, showed that accounting and financial staff
have necessary professional qualifications and training. All current financial staff had extensive World
Bank disbursement and financial management training, and is very experienced in financial management of
Bank financed projects. There are no requirements for additional accounting or financial staff at the
moment. However, after the project effectiveness, at least one additional financial expert would be hired.
Auditing. Project financial statements, the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be
audited annually during the project implementation in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing
(ISA) by independent private auditor acceptable to the Bank. The audit will also cover the financial
statements, prepared in accordance with Intemational Accounting Standards (LAS), of the FER as an
entity. Copies of the audited financial statements, together with the audit opinions and the management
letters, will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives were considered in relation to scope of the program, design of the Treasury system,
implementation strategy and choice of lending instrument, as detailed below.
(a)    The Scope
The project proposes to concentrate primarily on developing organizational arrangements, systems and
procedures related to budget execution. This includes setting up the appropriate regulatory framework,
budget classification structures, and chart of accounts, as well as the policies, procedures, systems and
organizational arrangements for the proper federal budget execution by the Treasury and governance of its
relationships with other organizations involved in the budget execution process.
Treasury and Broader Budget Management Objectives. The long-tern effectiveness of the Treasury
system will depend on several other aspects of budget management. One issue for the design of the
operation is the extent to which such other areas should be directly addressed within the project The link
with budget formulation is particularly important. The existing system of budget formulation routinely
generates unrealistic budgets, demonstrated in aspects such as the gross under provision of essential inputs,
inadequate provision for debt service, unrealistic revenue expectations or other features which render the
budget un-implementable, as approved. Asking the Treasury to execute such a budget places severe strains
on the development of an effective system. In the absence of effective controls on commitments, budgetary
pressure is likely to be expressed in the growth of arrears. This provides a highly unfavorable environment
- 14 -



for introducing a commitment control system and encourages the likelihood of ad hoc discretionary
budgetary adjustments in a non-transparent manner during budget execution.
While issues in budget formulation are recognized as a serious risk for the successful development of
Treasury operations, the broad range of these risks could not be covered effectively within a single
program. Some aspects --such as debt management, revenue collection and improvement of the
informational base for revenue forecasting-- can be addressed within parallel activities, and are the focus of
ongoing projects and ESW. Some of the weaknesses in budget formulation noted above relate to issues in
budget processes which will be addressed in parallel ESW. Consequently, the strategy adopted to address
the dependence between Treasury development and quality of budget formulation is to: (i) use parallel
ESW to develop detailed recommendations on improvements in budget formulation; (ii) emphasize and
develop positive linkages between Treasury system outputs and improvements in budget formulation (see
below); and (iii) build into the project design scope for reviewing implementation strategy in light of
performance outturn on this aspect of budget reform.
Several positive linkages exist between the Treasury development program and progress in budget
formulation. The project will include reform of the budget classification structure and Chart of Accounts,
which will ensure that the budget execution systems have the necessary upstream linkages with the budget
preparation process, and that information gathered during budget execution is useful for budget monitoring
and control and for preparation of the following year's budget. The development of commitment recording
and implementation of commitment control will assist in identifying the critical areas of mismatch between
budget objectives and budget provision, and help to focus on areas where greater efforts are needed in
accurate costing of budget objectives and early assessment of consistency between objectives and budgetary
provisions. Over the longer term, more timely and reliable data on budget performance will provide the
basis for increased accountability and stronger incentives to improve realism and responsiveness to public
interests in budget formulation.
Several of the performance indicators proposed for the operation --such as measures of budget deviation
and accumulation of arrears-- will highlight jointly aspects of both budget formulation and execution. Poor
performance on such indicators may reflect weaknesses in execution alone, such as the ineffectiveness of
commitment controls, or may arise primarily from problems in budget formulation, representing the results
of an attempt to implement an unrealistic budget Persistent indicators of the latter problem would suggest
the need to adjust the focus of the Government's reform efforts, with greater emphasis on strengthening
budget formulation. In this event, it might make sense to confine further implementation of the overall
Treasury development program to essential core support, while developing a program to address the main
areas of weakness in budget formulation. The need for such flexibility in project design in response to
potential performance outcomes has implications for choice of lending instrument, as discussed under
implementation below.
Treasury and the Chamber of Accounts. in the course of preliminary discussions on project design, the
Ministry of Finance indicated an intention to consult closely with the Chamber of Accounts in development
of the Treasury system. While the Chamber of Accounts is required to maintain independent scrutiny of
the Goverment's fiscal accounts, and underlying systems generating the fiscal data, it does appear
desirable to encourage consultation on the Treasury development, in order to ensure compatible
development of the Chamber's own information systems and staff development The Chamber as a control
agency to the legislature on all aspects of budget management needs to develop a full understanding of the
systems development in order to improve the quality of its reporting to the legislature on budget execution,
including improvement in the quality of audit reports. The Chamber of Accounts provides a key channel for
the accountability of Treasury operations, both to the legislature and to the wider public. In other respects,
- 15 -



as provider of intermediate services to agencies providing public services, the Treasury has only indirect
channels of accountability to final beneficiaries. Parallel enhancement of the Chamber's capability for
scrutiny of budget execution is therefore particularly important for the sustainability of Treasury
development. Specific activities under taken as part of this project would ensure that the Chamber has
ready access to the information and data being maintained by the Treasury system in the Ministry of
Finance to enable the Chamber to perform its functions in an efficient manner.
(b)    Treasury Systems Design
At the policy level, recommendations related to the scope and functions of the Treasury and the design of
associated systems and procedures have been developed by the IMF and are based on international best
practice as adapted for economies in transition. The IMF has recommended the implementation of a
centralized model in which all government funds are placed in a TSA at the NBR, spending agency bank
accounts are closed and all payments for spending agencies processed by the Treasury which controls the
TSA at the Central Bank and ensures that expenditures are in accordance with budget appropriations. This
centralized model is designed to address the main problems of the former system under which the MoF
would periodically distribute funds to spending agency bank accounts and these units directly process
payments transactions against these accounts. This resulted in a situation where on the one hand sizable
idle balances could build up in these spending unit Bank accounts, where as the Govemment would be in
deficit in overall terms causing additional borrowing and/or causing arrears in payments. In addition, the
MoF could not exercise any control to ensure that public expenditures incurred by spending units were in
accordance with budget appropriations and did not receive timely information on expenditures and receipts
to allow it to perform its fiscal management functions properly.
(c)    Implementation Strategy
The proposed phased implementation strategy for the project builds upon work already done and would
first place emphasis on introduction of the some of the key policy reforms, namely increasing the scope of
the Treasury using existing systems (with necessary upgrades) and then move on to introduction of more
complicated issues such as the introduction of a commitment system and implementation of associated
systems. This strategy addresses immediate needs and envisages the extension of the reforms in a manner
that would be more manageable compared to a "big bang approach".
(d)    Choice of Lending Instrument
The phased nature of the investments in information systems envisaged in the earlier stages of project
makes it a candidate for an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The current design of the program in which
the design and implementation of the full function system in three pilot oblasts and the core functions of the
system across major oblasts, is covered as part of the first phase of the loan, enables a verification and test
at about the mid point of the program to ensure that it would deliver anticipated advantages before
proceeding with the rest of the program. It also enables an opportunity for adjustments that may be
required in view of the experience gained as part of the first phase. Further, splitting the program into two
phases would enable a reduction in commitment charges for the borrower compared to the case where the
whole investment would be part of a single loan.
Response to outturn on budget management performance indicators. The proposed indicators for the
operation capture aspects of Treasury development, in combination with other components of budget
management performance, especially the quality of budget formulation. Failure to achieve expected goals
on these indicators may reflect a situation in which commitment to develop the Treasury system remains
- 16 -



strong, but performance is undermnined by other weaknesses in budget management, such as continued lack
of consistency between implicit budget commitments and provisions in the approved budget. Adjustment
may be needed in such circumstances to maintain a limited core program of support for continued
development of the Treasury while developing a parallel program designed to address the specific emerging
bottlenecks.
Institutional Review - A functional review of the Federal Treasury is currently being carried out to examine
the legislative framework for treasury operations, processes and procedures for execution of the federal
budget. The review will also determine the appropriate level of staffing and the prospects for reorganizing
responsibilities between regional and rayon levels within the FT, both of which would have significant
implications for the detailed investment program in later phases of the program, assuming that core
requirements are addressed during the initial phases of the program. The FT provides key intermediate
services to public sector agencies, while also carrying out key control functions. Performance of these
functions will depend on establishing appropriate accountability for exercise of these controls, ensuring that
controls are confined to facilitating implementation of approved budgetary allocations, and ensuring
appropriate feedback relating to the quality of services provided. As in any program of long term
institutional reform, these features of institutional design will require periodic review in light of
performance outturn.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latst Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progrss (IP)  Objective (DO)
Thematic issues are focused on (i.e.,  Bureau of Economic Analysis  S            S
taxation) where basis for significant  Project (1997)
policy decisions that are likely to
impact savings revenues and
expenditures are identified. The
improvement of national accounts is
another relevant component of this
project.
Fiscal management                 Regional Fiscal TA (1999)        S             S
Relevant areas of project includes  Tax Administration             S             S
computerization of taxes, and     Modernization Project (1995)
simplification of data.
Improvement of budget management  SAL I (1997)                     S             S
and revenue collections
Fiscal management                 SAL 11(1997)                     S             S
Fiscal management                 SAL 111 (1998)                   U             U
Fiscal management                 Regional Fiscal Reform
Fiscal management                 Tax Administration
Modernization Project II
Fiscal management                 Customs Reform
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 17 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank's experience with similar projects demonstrates the need for: (i) a high level of commitment to
project objectives on the part of the borrower; (ii) well-defined objectives consistent with the country's
absorptive capacity; (iii) thorough preparation and accurate assessment of needs; (iv) close monitoring of
project preparation actions to be undertaken by the borrower and provision of necessary TA; and (v)
rigorous supervision to handle the design, procurement and implementation challenges that these projects
typically present.
The Bank's experience with the Treasury component in other countries shows that borrowers' commitment
and their extensive involvement in deciding the project design and phasing (participatory approach), as well
as extensive involvement of the resident mission in the process of preparation and supervision, are essential
for the success of the project
In addition, experience in these countries has indicated that it is best to adopt a phased approach to system
implementation, starting with the implementation of a rather basic system that encompasses only part of the
functionality required for a full Treasury system and then move on to a full-function system based on more
advanced technology, after the agencies and staff involved in budget execution have become thoroughly
familiar with the workings of the interim system and associated changes in business processes.
The project incorporates these lessons by: (i) focusing on areas to which the Government is currently
committed; (ii) building on existing Government efforts in these areas; (iii) providing technical assistance to
help the borrower implement the actions required for project preparation and providing financing for skills
required for project implementation, (iv) anticipating intensive supervision requirements and extensively
involving the country office in Moscow in this process. The project proposes a phased implementation
strategy, starting first by usage of the application software currently in use in the Treasury to extend the
coverage of the Treasury and then moving on to the design and implementation of a new full function
treasury system.
The project design and implementation strategy has also sought to incorporate the recommendations of a
recent QAG review of technical assistance projects in the region that included two operations dealing with
improvements in Treasury systems. Specifically, the QAG review emphasized the importance of: (i)
incorporating better techniques to assess commitment, institutional capacity and political readiness for
reform; (ii) carrying out such technical assistance operations in the context of an overall program of policy
reform for the sector; (iii) using the most experienced and technically proficient staff for project supervision
and the requirements for intensive and high-quality supervision during the entire course of the project; (iv)
flexibility in the selection of individual consultants with appropriate skills, rather than insisting on
consulting firms for such assignments; and (v) using more appropriate methods for the procurement of
information technology.
The project has incorporated these suggestions in its design and implementation strategy. The functional
and institutional review of the Treasury addresses the institutional requirements and will further clarify the
role the Treasury should play in public expenditure management and the organizational structure and
staffing required to perform this function. The project supervision plan will take into account the
recommendations of the QAG review, in particular those regarding the procurement of consultants and
information technology.
- 18 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is very committed to the project, as it realizes the vital importance of a functioning
Treasury to meet the needs of financial administration in a market economy. It has set up its own targets
for making the Treasury operational: i.e., start performing basic functions in 2000 and become fully
operational in 2004.
The project will build on work already performed by the borrower to establish offices of the Federal
Treasury and associated systems. The Central office of the Federal Treasury has been established as a
structural department of the MoF organization and has taken over the budget execution functions formerly
carried out by the MoF. The Government is committed to addressing remaining systemic problems as part
of the new project. Over the last few years the Federal Treasury has embarked on a project to set up
computer-based systems as mentioned above to implement some of the essential elements of a Treasury
system. This system caters to basic requirements for Treasury operations related to financing Government
programs and processing payments from Government agencies. This system has been implemented across
the main nodes of the network. This has been financed by the Governments' own resources. The
Govemment has now expressed a need for technical assistance and financing to help in the design and
implementation of a full function Treasury system that will meet the Government's long term needs. A
further indication of the Government's commitment to and ownership of the project is the fact that its scope
and design are based on an action plan and cost estimates developed by Treasury officials.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
(i)  Institution Building. The Bank will help strengthen institutional capacity to deal with
public expenditure management issues in general, and budget execution and Treasury
operations in particular, in accordance with international norms. The project will enable
the Government to design and establish the system of Treasury budget execution in
accordance with policy recommendations of the IMF.
(ii)  Financing. The Bank would provide funds for implementation of the Treasury System
and the acquisition of associated hardware, software and technical assistance
(iii) Training. The Bank will provide help in training to develop skills capable of carrying out
new operations and functions to meet long term needs of public expenditure management
in a market economy.
The Bank, in close cooperation with the IMF, is well placed to assist the Treasury to design and implement
a full-function Treasury system --and the technological platform required to support this system-- in
comparison with other tied sources of financing. Such financing may in fact be difficult to obtain from
other sources, given the present financial environment.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Project benefits include financial gains from minimizing idle cash balances within Government agencies.
Major benefits of the project in strengthening instruments of fiscal control , providing the means to ensure
effective implementation of budget allocations and greater transparency in Government's financial
management, are less susceptible to measurement
-19 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Implementation of the new Treasury system and streamlining of associated procedures for budget execution
would result in better management of Government's financial resources and efficiencies in government
budgetary transactions. Implementation of the Treasury system would enable better control on the use of
Government's resources and ensure that resources are spent on items for which they have been approved.
Better cash management would reduce idle balances in Government accounts, help improve the
Government's borrowing strategy and reduce borrowing costs. Efficiencies in execution of budgetary
transactions would reduce delays in payments of bills from Government creditors (beyond the period
stipulated in contracts) and would eventually reduce the cost of goods and services to Government.
3. Technical:
The overall design of the Treasury system is based on IMF recommendations after looking at possible
options. This model has been recommended by the IMF because: (a) under the former system in practice in
CIS countries, the Ministry of Finance periodically distributed funds to spending agency bank accounts,
and spending units directly processed payment transactions against these accounts. This resulted in a
situation where sizable idle balances could build up in spending unit bank accounts, while the MoF was in
deficit in overall terms. This in turn necessitated additional government borrowing and/ or caused arrears in
payment; ( b) the MoF could not exercise control to ensure that public expenditures incurred in spending
units were in accordance with approved budget appropriations; (c) the MoF did not receive timely
information on public expenditures or receipts from line agencies. The Centralized Treasury model design
proposed for Russia, in which all govemment expenditure and receipt transactions are channeled through
the Treasury and all government moneys are lodged in a Treasury Single Account at the Central Bank is
designed to remedy these problems.
The switch to automated systems from manual systems is usually a major change-management issue in the
implementation of such projects. However, the Russian Treasury is already using computer-based
information systems to perform its business functions. Though these systems are somewhat rudimentary
and lack the complete functionality required from a Treasury system, nevertheless their widespread use at
most Treasury offices means that staff in these offices is familiar with the use of computer-based systems
to perform their day-to-day operations. It also implies that there is some capacity within the Treasury to
manage a network of information systems spread across a large number of offices in the country. The new
systems and associated technology introduced as a result of this project would require that Treasury staff
be trained in their operation and maintenance, however, their prior experience with similar systems will
reduce the level of change that will be introduced as a result of the project.
From a systems architecture standpoint, the project envisages the installation of a distributed architecture in
which processing capacity would be available at all major nodes of the network: i.e., the regional and rayon
Treasury offices. These offices would process expenditure and receipt transaction and pass on information
to the next higher level. In view of the uneven quality of the telecommunication infrastructure available at
present, this appears to be the most practical strategy. As the telecommunication infrastructure improves,
the Treasury could move to a more centralized approach in which processing capacity is located at fewer
nodes which are accessible via dedicated telecommunication lines or via a Virtual Private Network (VPN).
The project will explore the possibility of implementing a VPN-based system for segments of the overall
network that have adequate telecommunications facilities.
-20-



The project will investigate the availability of commercially available, off-the-shelf application software
packages that can be used to implement the Treasury system, and will opt for custom development only for
areas where no such software is available. This will improve the quality of the information systems
envisaged under the project and reduce implementation risk.
4. Institutional:
In recognition of the importance of the institutional development aspects of the project, the Treasury is
currently carrying out a comprehensive institutional review, to identify institutional constraints to
performance and determine appropriate strategies and measures to overcome these constraints.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation.
4.2 Project management:
ln view of the fact that the scope of the project involves all budget institutions in the country and all
agencies involved in economic management, an essential prerequisite for project success is to have
sponsorship from the very highest levels of Government. Its size, in terms of the size of the investments,
and complexity, in terms of the information systems that it plans, requires that even day-to-day decisions be
supported and backed up by senior MoF management Accordingly, a Steering Committee, headed by the
Minister of Finance and including representatives of all interested agencies of the Government of the
Russian Federation, as well as the Bank of Russia has been established to provide overall guidance and
oversight. A Project Directorate, headed by the First Deputy Minister of Finance and including members
from all departments of the MoF has been established to deal with day-to-day issues. FER has been
selected to deal with administrative matters, as well as to handle large-scale procurements, accounting and
reporting matters. FER will be responsible for the day-to-day operational work, including procurement
monitoring and reporting activities. FER will submit quarterly progress reports on all contracts.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project involves procurement of large-scale and complex information systems and associated
technology. The procurement aspects would need to be monitored closely. The Bank project team will
include specialists in informatics and procurement. FER will provide the services of procurement
specialists (PS) familiar with the National Public Procurement Legislation and World Bank procurement
procedures. FER shall reinforce the procurement role with the assistance of international consultants as
may be necessary. These consultants will assist FER to develop appropriate bidding and consultant
services documentation and will work with the Project staff during bid evaluation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management capacity assessment of the project was carried out in April, 2002. The
assessment showed that the financial and accounting departments of the FER are staffed by very competent
and experienced staff, and are guided by a very thorough and clear Operations Manual, which covers both
project and general PIU issues. Reporting and audit requirements are clearly detailed with adequate
directives for the Project financial statements and Entity financial statements preparation. Any weaknesses
that may exist in financial management capacity of the Russian Federation have been mitigated for this
project through the use of an existing PIU, experienced in the financial management. The risk of misuse of
equipment, acquired with the project funds, was mitigated by the development of the adequate internal
control procedures.
- 21 -



Special Account. Following the financial crisis of August 1999 the Government of the Russian Federation
reduced the list of banks eligible to house IBRD special accounts to three state owned banks. The project
will open the Special Account with one of the eligible banks, Vnesheconombank.
5. Environmental:                 Enviromnental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final drafl:
N/A
5.4 I-low have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Development of the Treasury is expected to have positive effects on timeliness and predictability of public
expenditure, including areas of public expenditure relevant for the poor. Secondly, by improving the quality
of public expenditure reporting and the transparency of public resource management, the project makes a
contribution to enhanced govemance in public sector institutions.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Govemment's program for development of the treasury reforms includes extensive dialogue with
budget agencies at all levels and training programs for both Treasury staff and end users of the enhanced
system. The institutional assessment currently in progress reviews the role of the treasury among other
major stakeholders. Consultations in the course of project preparation and related analytic work have
included Govemment agencies, both Ministry of Finance and line ministries, the central bank, and also
bodies outside the executive, such as the Budget Committee of the State Duma and the Chamber of
Accounts.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
-22 -



The quality of public expenditure reporting and other transparency measures will be measured by the key
performance indicators identified in section A3 above and Annex I
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 437)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project would largely depend upon the commitment by the authorities to the
project objectives. The Government has indicated its commitment to Treasury Systems Reform and has set
an explicit timetable for the implementation of a full treasury system. Work under this project builds upon
efforts already underway. These efforts also give a strong indication of Government commitment. Another
critical condition for project sustainability is that the Treasury be able to assimilate and retain the transfer
of technical skills. The project would build on existing efforts and supplement technical skills as required.
To institutionalize the technological changes smoothly the project would recruit foreign and local specialists
and structure training programs for staff. By developing long-term training strategies the project would
ensure sustained institutional support. The increased participation of the local private sector in systems
development/implementation activities proposed in the project would also ensure sustainability.
2. Ciitical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(a) By improving the quality of the fiscal  S        Maintaining high standards of Treasury service
management systems the project would                 delivery (reporting, payment processing time)
introduce transparency in the resource               will be important to mitigate agency resistance.
allocation and expenditure processes. This
may be resisted by those who benefit from
current weaknesses.
(b) Continued weaknesses in budget         H         (1) Use parallel ESW to develop detailed
formulation will impose on treasury the             recommendations on improvements in budget
task of implementing unrealistic budgets,           formulation; (2) Emphasize and develop positive
placing severe strains on development of             linkages between treasury system outputs and
- 23-



commitment controls.                                improvements in budget formulation; and (3)
Build into the project design scope for reviewing
performance outturn on this aspect of budget
reform.
(c) Continued Government commitment       M         Program design has been based on strong
and Bank support to structural reforms in           participation and commitment of Ministry of
the fiscal area are prerequisites for the           Finance and other stakeholders.
success of the program.
From Components to Outputs
Introduction of the new institutional     M         Government supports these reforms at the
structure of budget execution would                 highest levels, and recognize the need for
require a reorganization and re- alignment          change, and that the change process is
of the roles and responsibilities of related        completed smoothly. A phased and gradual
government agencies, such as the MoF the            introduction of new policies and procedures and
NBR the treasury and the relationships to           a broad training program in the use of the new
the line ministries. There may be                   systems and methodologies would allow a wider
resistance from line agencies to the issue          appreciation of benefits and would enhance
of centralizing payments through the                ownership. The project will be implemented in a
Treasury rather than their having direct            manner that the Treasury is able to handle the
access to Bank accounts in private Banks.           transaction load from spending agencies in an
The private banking sector may also resist          efficient manner and no delays are experienced
this change since Government resources              in processing payment requests which would
would be withdrawn from their purview               inevitably increase resistance to the
and placed in the Central Bank under the            implementation of the new systems. The phased
control of the Treasury.                            implementation strategy for the project has been
designed to address this issue.
The project is designed to reflect: (i) the
organizational capacities of the Treasury to
manage project implementation; (ii) lack of
adequate technical skilis within the Government;
and (iii) the ability of Government to retain staff
who have been trained. Government would need
to review salary scales of staff in key areas to
retain them within the civil service. However, it
is likely that an ongoing policy of training would
need to be adopted with some attrition to be
expected.
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
-24 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
At negotiations an effectiveness condition was agreed relating to appointment of Quality Assurance
consultants. This condition has since been met.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
II 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 25 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with aU applicable Bank policies.
0 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recomnuended for approval. The project oomplies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Allister J. Moon                  Help W. Muller                    Julian F.Schweitzer
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Dlrector           Country Manager/Dlrecto'
-26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectord country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthening public resource CAS Key Economic and   World Bank supervision
management.                Program Indicators.       missions; IMF inspection
visits.
Periodic fiscal and accounting
reports of the govemment.
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
To ensure that all government Reduction in the total stock  Borrower's Project Steering
expenses and receipts are  and annual increments of  Committee; World Bank      Continued Government
routed through a new       budget arrears;           supervision missions; IMF  commitment and Bank
Treasury system. - by 2009                           inspection visits.         support to structural reforms
Timely presentation of fiscal                        in the fiscal area are
APL 1. System development  accounts for extemal audit;  Periodic fiscal and accounting prerequisites for the success
and basic systems                                    reports of the government.  of the program.
implementation - by 2007   Payment processing
centralized through treasury
APL 11. Implementation of  for 100 % of all central
full Treasury system. - by  government transactions
2009                      (except for state
extrabudgetary funds).
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
APL 1- The Govemment       Reduction in the total stock  Borrower's Project Steering  Risks and Assumptions
improves cash management   and annual increments of  Committee; World Bank
and ensures that budgetary  budget arrears;          supervision missions; IMF
expenditures are in                                  inspection visits.
accordance with their
approved budget.
Payment processing         Periodic fiscal and accounting (a) By improving the quality
centralized through treasury  reports of the government.  of the fiscal management
for 80 % of all central                              systems the project would
government transactions                              introduce transparency in the
(except for state                                    resource allocation and
extrabudgetary funds).                               expenditure processes. This
may be resisted by those who
benefit from current
weaknesses; (b) Continued
weaknesses in budget
formulation will impose on
treasury the task of
implementing unrealistic
budgets, imnposing severe
strains on development of
commitment controls.
-27 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Ctl        u     tion
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(i) A fully functional Treasury (i) Revised budgetary  Borrower's Project Steering  The project would need to
Department and associated  classification adopted, and  Committee; World Bank  cope with the; (i)
legal and institutional   Budget for FY 2003 prepared supervision missions; IMF  organizational capacities of
framework, systems and    according to the revised  inspection visits; Periodic  the Treasury to manage
procedures, including:    budget classification; Revised project progress reports.  project implementation;
Budget Code drafted and
adopted by Parliament by
January 1, 2003;
(a) Revised Budget         New management processes                           (ii) lack of adequate technical
Classification Structure and  and expenditure controls for                    skills within the Govenmment;
Chart of Accounts conforming budget execution,
with GFS;                 (expenditure limits,
commitment recording,
verification of goods receipt,
payment processing and
revenue receipts) in place and
functioning by July 1, 2007;
(b) A revised Budget Code  Commitmnent recording to be                        (iii) ability of government to
that provides a comprehensive implemented by January 1,                       retain staff who have been
framework for proper      2008; Treasury Single                               trained. This will largely
management of public money  Account established at the                        depend on the progress of the
and property;             NBR and spending unit                               Government in the civil
accounts at commercial banks                        service refomi
closed by July 1, 2003;                            implementation-.
(c) Effective public      payment processing                                  However it is likely that an
expenditure control       centralized through                                 ongoing policy of training
regulations to manage the  Treasury-70 percent of all                         would need to be adopted by
level and timing of       central government payments                         the Government with
expenditures;             to be processed by Treasury by                      significant attrition rates
July 1, 2002, 100 percent by                        expected.
July 1, 2003;
(d) Expenditure and Cash  improved cash management
management processes to   for the Government as a
centralize payments through  whole-bank balances in
the treasury and consolidate  federal treasury offices
Bank accounts to a single  accounts reduced by 70
account at the Central Bank  percent by January 1, 2008, as
(except for state         compared with January 1,
extrabudgetary funds);.   2001;
(ii) A fully functional,  (ii) Treasury ledger systems
automated Treasury and    operational with the required
associated systems, that would functionality; 3 oblasts
serve as effective instruments including rayons by July 1,
for budget execution and cash 2006; other regions by
management.               January 1, 2008; Timely and
reliable budgetary reports
produced for
MoF/Treasury/Agencies - first
- 28 -



half of 2002; Comprehensive
accounting reports produced
on both cash and commitment
basis for government
consistent with intemational
standards by January 1, 2009.
(iii) A cadre of staff in the  (iii) Training strategy
Treasury/MoF and line     completed and identified,
agencies, trained in the use,  milestones accomplished; 150
maintenance and operation of numbers of technical and
the new systems.          1000 financial staff trained in
the operation, maintenance
and use of the new systems by
July 1, 2006. 2500 numbers of
technical and 45000 financial
staff trained in the operation,
maintenance and use of the
new systems by January 1,
2009.                     _
-29-



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
(i) Technical Assistance for:  (i) Technical Assistance:  Borrower's Project Steering  The project would need to
Committee; World Bank     cope with the: (i)
(a) Review of existing budget (a) Policy and design: Bank  supervision missions; IMF  organizational capacities of
classifications and design of a Loan amount - $11.0 million; inspection visits; Periodic  the Treasury to manage
revised chart of accounts                           project progress reports.  project implementation; (ii)
conforming with the IMF   (b ) Incremental Operating                          lack of adequate technical
GFS classification        Costs -Project management:                          skills within the Government;
methodology;              Bank Loan amount - $5.0                             (iii) ability of Government to
million,                                            retain staff who have been
(b) Development of the legal,                                                 trained.
regulatory and operational
framework, including                                                          This will largely depend on
guidelines, procedures,                                                       the progress of the civil
regulations, forms and                                                        service reform
operating manuals for budget                                                  implementation. However, it
execution, expenditure                                                        is likely that an ongoing
forecasting, fiscal reporting;                                                policy of training would need
cash management and audit;                                                    to be adopted by the
Government with significant
(c) Development of functional                                                 attrition rates expected.
specifications for the TLS and
associated technology
architectures;
(d) Specifying hardware and
software requirements and
assisting the Government in
the acquisition, testing and
installation of the hardware
and software;
(e) Project management.
(ii) Equipment and Software: (ii) Computer hardware and
software:
(a) Equipment (Servers, work
stations and associated   Servers, workstations,
peripherals), systems     printers, LAN/WAN
software, application     networking, application
development tools for the  software, DBMS and
central facilities at the  application development tools,
Treasury Headquarters,    site preparation, UPS etc.
regional and rayon Treasury  Bank Loan amount - $188.22
offices;                  million.
(b) Application software for
Treasury system at the center,
regional and district units and
budget financed entities, as
necessary;
- 30-



(c) Office equipment and
training facilities.
(iii) Training:             (iii) Training: Bank Loan
amount - $8.72 million
(a) Consultant services for
development of an overall
training strategy;
(b) Training courses to cover
specific technical and
functional areas;
(c) Study assignments and
visits for Government officials
to enable them to benefit from
experiences of other
governments.
- 31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
The project would assist the Government in implementing an effective system of budget execution. This
project would include: (a) enhancements to the legal and regulatory framework for Treasury operations; (b)
functional and technical design of a full-function Treasury system, (c) development of operating procedures
for the new system; (d) development and implementation of the new system, across the various Treasury
offices in the country; and (e) training of Treasury functional and technical staff in the use, operation and
maintenance of the system. Specific aspects of the project are summarized below.
The Treasury System
Under the first phase of the APL the Treasury system would be implemented at the Central Treasury and 3
pilot regional offices and all associated rayons, as well as core functions at not less than 40 regional
treasury offices and all associated rayons. Under the second phase of this APL the system would be
extended to all remaining Oblasts and rayons. This system would be used to assist the Treasury in all
aspects of budget execution and management of government financial resources. The system would cover
all spending units financed from the federal budget, and would include all expenditure transactions
pertaining to these units, including transactions financed from own revenues. All steps in the expenditure
cycle including, budget appropriations, financing limits, commitments, verification and payment
transactions would be recorded by the system.
The overall design of the Treasury system is based on IMF recommendations made in the nineties, after
looking at possible options. The design envisages that all government moneys (with the exception of state
extra-budgetary funds) would be lodged in a Treasury Single Account at the Central Bank of Russia (with
sub-accounts at oblast branches of the CBR). All spending unit Bank accounts in the country would be
closed and all Government expenditure and receipt transactions would be routed through the Treasury or its
oblast and rayon offices. This would enable:
* a reduction of idle balances and better cash management by putting all Government resources
under control of the Treasury;
*   better controls during budget execution. Treasury would check whether budgetary expenditures are
in accordance with the approved budget, within the specified spending limits and funds allocations,
prior to approving an expenditure transaction; and
*   comprehensive accounting and fiscal reporting, thereby contributing to better financial
management.
The term Treasury System (TS) is used to refer collectively to the systems modules that provide support
for: (a) budget and financing control; (b) accounts payable; (c) accounts receivable; (d) the general ledger;
and (e) fiscal reporting. The first of these is concerned with maintaining data on spending authority. These
systems maintain data on approved budgeted appropriations (both capital and recurrent) for programs and
projects. This information is transferred to these systems from the budget preparation systems after the
budget has been finalized. During the course of the year information about supplementary allocations,
volumes of financing and payments from the budget is also recorded in the system. The second and third
group of systems are used to process commitment, expenditure and receipt transactions as they occur
during the course of the year. These systems maintain a record of commitments and actual expenditures
against budgeted allocations and details of receipts. The General Ledger is used to compile summary
- 32-



records for control and analysis. Together these systems modules provide the Government the capability to
monitor the overall budget execution process and generate fiscal reports.
The Treasury System would be used by:
*   the Treasury and its regional and district offices to perform the basic accounting functions and to
undertake budget implementation;
*   the budget department of the MoF to obtain the status of actual expenditures and perform the
processes associated with budget monitoring and fiscal reporting;
*   the external and internal debt management departments to provide the information required for
debt management-
*   line agencies to cater to their accounting and financial information needs; and,
*   the Chamber of Accounts to access financial transaction data for auditing purposes; and agencies
administering revenues.
The core functional processes and information flows associated with the Treasury System (TS) are also
shown schematically in figure 1. The TS will be implemented at the Treasury head office and at each of the
regional (oblast) and district (rayon) branches of the Treasury and will process and control central
government payments and receipts in their respective areas.
- 33 -



FIGURE 1. Russian Federation: Treasury System-Core Functional Processes and Information Flows
Russian Federation                                     , 
Treasury System: Core Functional Processes and Informatlon Flows|
Consolidated Fiscal
Ministry     -Et -m-    -   -     RePorts
of     . t |priofaaaii
iudpt Approp0idions     i5OfniUn 
SFunds s       Finance           OmFuddIClo.5
Cash requirern         . sCentral Systm                      Government Banking
S t T ~~~~~~~~~~~~Armngwnis
g.  Spsm ini i UnX.. Esl
>Fteild alloesibm Centall"          i                              u | | 1 |Tax
U"indits  g. cnidbrsnt ind ikaiioni LoCald a R                 Central U
Line   bsnriio     the Center                          BSnk Of              Comeial
Mnies                and    Y       Pm       d   nstfiTA  Russi   4   sM hXinis
Offices  ~~~~alyfl fpynnsadrc~t          .dbdp
Comdtnt and verificaon  L d a  R     Oblast Rayon     Obastra
Spending .O     vse stheCenter                                  Bran ofhes           Commerclal
payments IrtRquesi  Reasryon  :   L '               of the nytRsia . a.   Banks
E   anily file of Payments and rocesitoTA B
R Iyons n i E R ,:,l .g  g:gRf_,.................. ... . ,f:ff .....:S::Sg:Rb:;
Implementation Strategy and Major Project Activities
The implementation strategy adopted for the project envisages a two pronged approach in which a
computer system would first be developed to accommodate core functions. This system would be tested and
implemented at a set of pilot sites and after a successful pilot, replicated across all oblast and rayon
treasury offices to enable the Treasury to increase its coverage as soon as possible and to bring within its
fold as many of the expenditure and receipt transactions. Work on the extension of this system to cover
remaining treasury functions would be pursued on a parallel track. This extended system would also first
be tested at a set of designated pilot sites and then replicated across the country. This approach has been
designed to: (a) first meet the Government's priority needs on an urgent basis; and (b) provide a set of
full-function, efficient and effective tools for public expenditure management according to a realistic
time-frame.
-34 -



Implementation of the system across the whole country would be a major undertaking, spanning a 8-10
year period. The Governments Treasury development program commenced in 1999. Banks support for the
program has been divided into two phases with the first phase being covered as part of this project. This
phase is expected to extend from September 2002 to December 2007. A brief description of the major tasks
to be undertaken as part of this phase during project implementation and their phasing is given below. The
various steps involved in the implementation of the new Treasury system are detailed in the accompanying
project implementation schedule attached at Annex 12. The schedule describes the main tasks involved in
the implementation of the full Treasury system and gives the estimated start and completion dates for these
tasks.
(a)    Improvements in coverage and capacity with present application software and
additional hardware. The Treasury already has in place a number of custom-developed
systems that enable it to carry out some of the key elements of its functionality regarding
payment processing. There is considerable pressure on the Government for coverage of the
Treasury system to be made comprehensive as quickly as possible. In order to
accommodate the additional transaction traffic that would result from this increased
coverage, and at the same time maintain acceptable transaction processing times, it would
be necessary to upgrade the hardware and software at some of the high-volume nodes in
the system. In response to this pressure Treasury is following a strategy to extend the
coverage of the available transaction processing systems to all regions, enhance their
capacity to meet urgent needs, and enhance the hardware capacity at these locations to
handle the anticipated increases in transaction loads. This is being done over the past one
and a half years, as the first phase of the project and is financed out of the Govemment's
own resources.
(b)    Institutional review of the Treasury. Successful implementation of the Govemment's
Treasury development program will require that careful attention be given to the
institutional development aspects of the plan, including the major training and development
program required and the need for a change management program. The Treasury therefore
has undertaken a comprehensive institutional review of the Federal Treasury and its
subordinate offices using resources provided to the Govermnent under a PHRD Grant for
project preparation. The objective of this review is to identify institutional constraints on
the Treasury's performance, including incentives and management structures, and in the
context of this analysis determine at a high level the required total staffing levels for the
FT and for the regional and rayon offices. The consultants will also study the
inter-relationships and interactions of the Treasury with other agencies such as the MoF's
other departments, the Ministry of Taxes and Revenues, other agencies administering
revenues, the CBR, Sberbank, and other line ministries and spending units. The
consultants will make recommendations regarding personnel management, training and
development, measures to promote accountability, management of implementation risk,
and removal of any other institutional blockages or constraints. This review is expected to
be completed by June 30, 2002.
(c)    The functional and technical design of the Treasury system. This work would cover the
development of the legal and regulatory framework and the functional and technical design
of the new system. It would also cover the development of detailed operating procedures.
An assessment of the specific training requirements for the new systems, consistent with
the overall training requirements identified in the institutional review, would also form part
of this activity. The Government has already initiated a consultancy for initial work in this
area, financed from its own resources. The Loan will finance the quality assurance
-35 -



consultancies that would ensure that the deliverables of the Govenunent financed
consultancy meet international standards.
(d)    Procurement/development of application software. This activity would involve
investigating application software alternatives to meet the functional requirements
developed as per point (c) above, and the development/procurement of application software
dependent on the results of this analysis.
(e)    Pilot systems implementation. This would include implementation of the new system at a
set of designated pilot sites. Pilot system implementation would be at three regions and all
associated cities and rayons within the these regions. The choice of the pilot sites would be
made in such a way as to make the pilot as representative as possible of the varying
conditions at the oblasts and rayons. The pilot systems implementation process would take
about one and a half years.
(f)    Systems replication. As the system is piloted, changes will need to be made as a result of
the pilot experience. After these changes have been incorporated into the system, it will be
ready for replication across the country.The replication phase itself could be divided into
several phases and could cover 5 years.
It may be noted that the pilot and the replication exercises would be carried out in two phases. First the
high priority, core elements of the Treasury system covering the essential payment, receipts and reporting
functions would be piloted. After the pilot this set of functions would be replicated across the country. Then
the full set of functions would be piloted at designated sites. Finally these functions would be replicated
across the country.
Under this project, during the first tranche of the APL, it is envisaged that the core functions would be
piloted and tested and then replicated across as many as possible, but at least the 40 major Oblasts, there
by giving a coverage of at least 75-80% of the budget transactions. In this tranche the full set of functions
would also be piloted and tested and then replicated across as many oblasts as possible. The replication of
the system over the remaining country would be carried out as part of the second tranche of the APL. A
summary of the project implementation schedule is given below.
- 36-



Summa      Proect Implementation Schedule
Major Task/ Activity          1999   200    2001     2002      2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
Wodd Bank
Proje  effective
Sept. 2002
(a) improve coverage and        X      X      X
capacity with present application
software and additional hardware
(b) Conduct an Institutional                  X         X
Review of the Federal Treasury                _
(c) Design full-function Treasury             X         X        X
system and associated procedures       _
(d) Procure/develop application                                  X       X
software
(e) implement new system at pilot                                       X      X
sites                                                                               _
(f) Replicate systems across at                                        X       X      X      X
least 40 oblasts.
Project Components and Items to be Financed
A description of the technical assistance, computer hardware and software, and training to be financed
under the project is given in the following paragraphs.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$30.30 million
Consulting services
The IMF has been providing technical assistance to assist in development of the Treasury budget execution
and its associated procedures and systems through expert advisors resident in Russia and through periodic
missions. They would continue to be associated in providing technical assistance and in advising the
MoF/Treasury on the substantive aspects of the Budget Execution, Cash Management and Treasury
Operations. For this purpose, the IMF proposes to designate and finance experts/advisors to continue to
advise the Government on the functional aspects of Treasury operations and to assist the Treasury in the
design and installation of the full-function Treasury system.
The project would supplement this with technical assistance in the functional and technical areas as well as
for project implementation as described below:
Functional Aspects
Technical assistance in functional aspects would include:
(i)  Review of existing budget classifications and coding structures, and development and
design of a revised structure and Chart of Accounts confonning with the IMF-GFS
classification methodologies and suitable for both budget preparation and implementation.
- 37 -



(ii)  Development of the legal, regulatory and operational framework and detailed guidelines,
procedures, regulations, forms and operating manuals for budget execution processes
required at all levels of Treasury operations to implement the Treasury system.
(iii)  Developing methods to improve forecasting of expenditure requirements and cash
management.
(iv)  Developing the fiscal reporting system of Treasury and improve linkages between the
Treasury fiscal reports and MoF analysis.
(v)   Developing detailed functional specifications for the Treasury system, including
requirements for incorporating necessary expenditure control procedures.
(vi)  Assessing training requirements for institutional development, including, assessment of the
skill levels of Treasury/MoF staff to operate and manage a modem fiscal management
system as well as necessary technical skills required for the implementation and operation
of the new Treasury system, and development and implementation of a training, skills
upgrading and recruitment program as may be necessary.
Technical Aspects
In the information systems area, technical assistance would be provided to develop the technical design of
the Treasury system and its implementation first at a designated set of pilot sites -- the center, three regions
and all rayons associated with these regions, and after testing the system in this environment, to replicate
the new system country-wide. This would include:
(i)  Develop the technology architecture to implement the Treasury systems and specifying the
hardware, software, and communications design, systems software and application
software platform for their operation (Operating systems, DBMS and application
development tools);
(ii)  Research and identify application software for the Treasury systems and determine
customization requirements and/or custom development of application software modules as
may be required;
(iii)  Specify the hardware and software requirements and prepare bidding documents in
accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines;
(iv)  Supervise implementation of the budget execution and Treasury systems, including:
*   Technical project coordination and systems integration;
*   Procurement of hardware and software;
*   Installation and testing of hardware and software;
*   Customization or development (as may be required) of application software for
budget execution and Treasury operations;
*   Acquisition, installation and testing of software for the Treasury system;
*   Development of operational guidelines, security and disaster recovery procedures;
*   Development of procedures and a checklist for replicating systems at subsequent
sites.
- 38 -



(v)   Develop a plan to upgrade the technical capacity of the Treasury/ MOF, to enable it to
carry out the design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the above systems,
including:
*   Specifying the organizational structure and staff training/skills requirements for
this facility;
*   Developing a training strategy and plans to the implement the systems
country-wide;
*   Developing end user manuals and training materials and documentation;
*   Training end users at pilot sites;
*   Designing and specifying systems training facilities for the Treasury/MoF.
Project Component 2 - US$359.05 million
B.     Equipment and Software
The computer system configurations required at various sites have been worked out, keeping the staffing
figures at the various Treasury offices and envisaged transaction loads at these sites in mind. Detailed
computer configurations have been worked out for each type of site. To be able to do this regional and
rayon offices have been grouped into three categories in terms of the size (staffing) of the office, namely
large, medium and small. For the rayons, an additional "very small" category has also been used. The
average number of staff at these locations and the number of concurrent users of the systems have been
used to determine the hardware and/or software requirements for these groups. It is envisaged that about
two thirds of the staff at these offices would be equipped with new workstations under the project. This
number is about 30,000. The costs for these computer configurations have been arrived at by using agreed
unit cost figures for various types of equipment and software. These numbers will be adjusted after the
completion of the institutional review of the Treasury that will determine the overall staffing figures and
number of staff at regional and rayon offices. The detailed cost estimates are given at Annex 3. Details of
computer hardware, software, and related equipment to be provided under the project are summarized
below:
Hardware, Systems Software, Application Development Tools, DBMSs, and Networking Items
Equipment and installation of servers, workstations, networks, printers, UPS, systems software and
application development tools for central facilities at the Treasury Headquarters, oblast and selected rayon
Treasury offices. Network management facilities and encryption/decryption devices/software and hardware
and software required for the secure transmission of information across the network. Each office would
receive appropriately-sized server(s), an appropriate number of workstations, a LAN network, an RDBMS
and application development tools, laser and line printers and Windows-based workstations and WAN
equipment, such as routers, etc. required to connect the office with its parent node in the overall Treasury
network. Details of the equipment to be procured would be determined by the Treasury and project
consultants after completion of the technical consultancies outlined above. The project would also
investigate the feasibility of using web-based technology instead of the more traditional client-server-based
systems, at least at selected sites where the available telecommunications infrastructure allows.
- 39 -



Application Software
Application software for Treasury systems at center, regional units, and rayon units and customization, as
may be necessary. This includes cost of package software purchase and customization as identified by
project consultants. In case custom development of application software is required for specific functions
not covered by the S/W package, the cost of this would also be covered by the Loan.
Miscellaneous
Office equipment and training facilities for the Treasury, as may be necessary.
Project Component 3 - USS 12.46 million
Training
Training is recognized as a crucial element of project implementation. Training requirements for the project
can be divided into several areas:
(i)  Training in principles, concepts and methodologies of the subject areas covered by the
project, namely, budget execution, cash management and Treasury operations;
(ii)  Senior-level management training/orientation in the use of computer-based financial
management information systems;
(iii)  End-user training in the use of the computerized information systems to be set up under the
project. This would include training for line agency finance staff and for Government
auditors;
(iv) Technical training in the use of the specific tools to be employed for developing and
implementing the information systems under the project: e.g. the chosen RDBMS,
operating system, application development and CASE tools, etc.;
(v)   General training related to the design and development of information systems;
(vi)  Training in EDP project management and the provision of end-user support to staff who
will use the systems.
The exact training requirements will be known following completion of the institutional
review and other project consultancies. The project would consideration both formal and
informal approaches in this area, including: training the trainers; twining arrangements and
exchanges with foreign treasuries to share experience, distance learning, and
computer-based training.
The project would provide financing for:
(i)  Technical assistance for training needs analysis and development of an overall training
strategy and schedule for training users in light of the results of the training needs analysis;
the design and specification of in-house training facilities and/or identification of suitable
training courses within the country and abroad; the development/acquisition of training
materials, technical documentation and end-user manuals.
-40-



(ii) Training courses to be arranged at site, or in local or foreign institutes to cover these areas.
Staff to be trained under the project would include the MoF/Line Agency/Government
Auditors/Treasury staff and technical staff of the MoF/ Treasury who will be involved in
the development and implementation of the systems.
(iii)  The project would also finance study assignments for government officials in the budget
execution and Treasury operations areas to enable them to benefit from the experiences of
other Governments in these areas. This would include financing of courses, discussion
trips on specific topics by experts from these governments or agencies to Russia.
Project Component 4 - US$6.00 million
Incremental Operating Expenses
Technical assistance would also be provided to assist the Treasury to administer and manage the project
and assist with Bank procedures (project monitoring, accounting, disbursement). Funds have been made
available to the MoF from the Portfolio Development Loan to set up a PIU which has already been
established under arrangements with the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions
development (FERFID). This unit is now being staffed. Financing from the Loan would finance the costs of
the PIU during the project implementation period.
- 41 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $miflion   US Smillion  US Smillion
I. Technical Assistance: (a) Policy and design: (i) review  17.10      11.00         28.10
existing budget classifications and design a revised Chart of
Accounts conforming with the IMF-GFS classification
methodology; (ii) develop the legal, regulatory and operational
framework, including guidelines, procedures, regulations, forms
and operating manuals for budget execution expenditure
forecasting, fiscal reporting; cash management; (iii) design and
develop functional specifications for the TLS and associated
technology architectures. Design budget classification
structures, develop legal and regulatory framework and
operational procedures, guidelines, etc. Design and develop
functional specifications and associated technology
architectures. (iv) Quality assurance on integrator design work
(b) Integrator design consultancy; (c) Technical support and
implementation services required for implementation of the new
Treasury system. Data conversion and interfaces, software
managenient, data management; (d) Project management.
11. Equipment and Software: (a) Equipment (servers,      114.20        188.22       302.42
workstations and associated peripherals and systems, office and
network software ) for the central facilities at Treasury
Headquarters, oblast and rayon Treasury offices. Computer
equipment (workstations, servers), printers and office
equipment, LANs and related equipment, WANs and equipment
for secure infonnation transfer cost;
(b) Application software for Treasury system, application
development tools, at the central, regional and district units and
spending units as necessary. Operating systems, office
management and LAN software, application software licenses
and associated configuration and customization costs,
development tools;
(c) Secure information systems required by the Ministry of
Defense and security agencies;
IIl. Training: (a) Training courses to cover specific technical  2.00    8.72        10.72
and functional areas. Financial management and Treasury
operations courses, technical systems courses.
1V. Incremental Operating Costs (PIU)                      0.00          5.00         5.00
Taxes and duties                                          61.57                      61.57
Total Baseline Cost                                      194.87       212.94        407.81
Physical Contingencies                                    1.53          5.25         6.78
Price Contingencles                                      16.60         10.50        27.10
-42 -



Total Project Costsl            213.00       228.69        441.69
Front-end fee                    2.31          2.31
Total Financing Required             213.00       231.00        444.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million   US $million
Goods                                                     114.20        188.22        302.42
Technical Assistance and Services                          17.10          11.00        28.10
Training                                                    2.00          8.72         10.72
Incremental Operating Expenses                              0.00          5.00          5.00
Contingencies                                              18.13          15.75        33.88
Taxes and duties                                           61.57                       61.57
Total Project Costs'   213.00         228.69       441.69
Front-end fee                    2.31          2.31
Total Financing Required    213.00         231.00       444.00
Taxes and Duties amount to US $61.57 million (to be paid by Govemment).
Identifiable taxes and duties are 61.57 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 601.43 (USSm). Therefore. the project cost sharing ratio is 66.5 1%
of total project cost net of taxes.
-43 -



Annex 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
Not Applicable
- 44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
-   PIEMNTATION PERIOD
Year I    Year 2  I Year 3  1 Year 4     Year 5  I Year 6  J Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         51.1       77.6      65.6      64.9      79.1     101.2
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0       0.0       1.5       3.0        5.0
Total Project Costs        51.1      77.6       65.6      66.4      82.1     106.2      0.0
Total Financing            53.4       77.6      65.6      66.4      82.1     106.2      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  3.2       4.0      37.6      48.3      60.5      77.5
Government               52.5      73.5      28.0      18.0      21.7      28.8
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financlers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   55.7       77.5      65.6      66.3      82.2     106.3       0.0
I Year 1I Year 2     I Year 3  I Year 4  I Year5    Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs         45.0      45.0       45.0      65.0      65.0      65.0
Total Project Costs       45.0       45.0      45.0      65.0       65.0     65.0       0.0
Front-end fee   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
.Total Financing           45.0      45.0      45.0       65.0      65.0      65.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment               45.0      45.0       45.0      65.0      65.0      65.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneflciaries    0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   45.0      45.0      45.0      65.0       65.0     65.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-45-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
Procurement
The procurement of goods (and related services) financed under the loan will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits issued in January 1995
and most recently revised in January 1999 (Procurement Guidelines). Contracts for consulting services
under Bank financing will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers issued in January 1997 and most recently revised
January 1999 (Consultant Guidelines). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Standard Request for
Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contracts will be used. Goods and technical assistance to be financed
by the Implementing Agency using its own financial resources will be procured in accordance with the
Russian Government public procurement legislation.
Overall Project costs by type of expenditure and procurement arrangements are shown in Table A while
consultants selection arrangements are further presented in Table Al. The Bank's thresholds for prior and
post review are summarized in Table B. A preliminary procurement plan (see Table B I) attempts to clarify
the packaging of contracts and the timing of major procurement events. The agency selected to assume
responsibility for the management of the Project as well as all procurement is presented after Table B 1.
For any contract to be eligible for financing from the loan, the procurement shall be done in accordance
with the procedures set out in the Loan Agreement (LA). These procedures include criteria for packaging of
contracts, the various methods of procurement that may be used, the thresholds within which those methods
apply and arrangements for prior and post review of procurement documentation and decisions. The
borrower shall conduct all procurement actions necessary to implement the project. The Bank shall
supervise the work of the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) to assure that all procurement of goods under
Bank financing is carried out in accordance with agreed procedures as defined in the LA and the
Procurement Guidelines. Similarly, selection and employment of consultants under the Bank loan will be
made in accordance with the LA and the Consultant Guidelines.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be placed in the United Nations publication "Development
Business" in May 2002. Interested eligible suppliers and consultants shall be requested to send their
expressions of interest to the PIU in Moscow. Invitations to bid and requests for expressions of interest
shall further be advertised in at least one newspaper of national circulation (and in the official gazette).
Special Procurement Notices (SPN) shall be advertised in the Development Business and also be
transmitted to those who have responded to the GPN.
The procurement and selection methods and the categories of goods and services to which they apply are
further specified in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement of Goods (Total estimated cost USD 391.11 million)
The total number of goods contracts has not been determined but is estimated at about 90. Some of these
contracts will be very large. For all goods contracts estimated to cost USD 0.1 mln or more, lnternational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be followed. For all large value information systems contracts,
the borrower will use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Supply and Installation of
Information Systems, as amended from time to time. Single-stage as well as two-stage bidding procedures
- 46 -



will be used for the procurement of information systems under ICB. International Shopping and National
Shopping procedures will be used for procuring smaller quantities of readily available off-the-shelf items
under contracts estimated at USD 0.1 million and USD 0.05 million equivalent or less, respectively. Direct
contracting will be used for proprietary items, for reasons of compatibility and standardization or due to
guarantee conditions. Direct contracting will permit accommodation to changes in the information systems.
This work entails modification of the various incumbent software which only the original systems suppliers
can perform. Any direct contracting during project implementation will require the Bank's prior no
objection.
Consulting Services (Total estimated cost USD 31.11 million)
The procurement plan so far identifies about 90 consultants assignments comprising engagement of
individuals as well as firms. Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) shall be used for a significant
number of assignments. QCBS will be used to procure technical assistance for the development of the legal,
regulatory and operational framework for budget execution and for the functional design and
implementation of information systems to support the Treasury. Quality-Based Selection (QBS) will be
used to select specialized consulting firms for the review and design of budget classification structures and
Charts of Accounts and for staffing key technical positions in the PIU. Individual consultants will be hired
to provide technical assistance to the Treasury and the PIU during implementation of the Project. This
category of individual consultants is mainly intended to supplement the shortage of technical skills in the
Treasury and for project implementation. These consultancies will comprise accounting and financial
specialists and information technology specialists. For the PIU, this will comprise project management,
accounting, procurement and financial specialists. Candidates will be experienced professionals (preferably
college degree) in the relevant areas (accounting, finance, information technology, Bank procuremnent,
accounting and disbursement). Individuals will be selected through comparison of qualifications among
those expressing interest in response to an advertisement. The PIU will prepare an operational manual
identifying the nature of the experts required (qualification and experience), the selection process to be used
and the estimated fee to be applied in the hiring of those individuals for the Bank's no objection.
Training (Total estimated cost USD 13.11 million)
Workshops, training courses and study tours will be carried out under QCBS or in accordance with agreed
procedures (AP) based on training programs with detailed itemized budgets approved by the Bank every six
months. These programs will explain the nature of the activity, candidates selected and their qualifications,
venue and/or institute selected, period of activity and estimated cost. Expenditures incurred under these
activities will generally be claimed under SOEs.
Incremental Operating Expenses (Total estimated cost USD 6.37 million)
A project implementation unit (PIU) has been established under arrangements with the Foundation for
Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER/FID). The Head of the PIU reports
to the Project Directorate in the MOF. The PIU will be responsible for activities related to project
monitoring, administration, accounting, disbursement, procurement and periodic progress reporting to the
Bank. At present, the PIU is financed out of the Portfolio Development Loan (PDL). After approval, the
Project will finance the PIU.
-47 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB          Other'      N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                         248.55         0.00         10.23       132.33     391.11
(193.58)       (0.00)        (8.56)      (0.00)    (202.14)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00         14.01       17.10      31.11
(0.00)        (0.00)       (11.82)      (0.00)    (11.82)
4. Tralning                       0.00          0.00         11.11        2.00       13.11
(0.00)        (0.00)        (9.36)      (0.00)     (9.36)
5. Front-end fee                  0.00          0.00         2.31         0.00       2.31
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.31)      (0.00)     (2.31)
5.Operating costs (PIU)           0.00          0.00         6.37         0.00       6.37
(0.00)        (0.00)        (5.37)      (0.00)     (5.37)
Total                         248.55          0.00        44.03        151.43    444.01
(193.58)       (0.00)       (37.42)      (0.00)    (231.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
aIncludes ISH USD 4.15 million, NSH USD 0.30 million and DC USD 3.00 mnillion, Consulting Services
USD 16.00 million fitianced by the Bank Loan
-48 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFF    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost'
A. Firms              9.16    0.75    0.00    0.00    1.49    0.00    17.10    28.50
(7.28)  (0.61)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (9.09)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.61    0.00     2.61
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.91)  (0.00)   (1.91)
Total  9.16    0.75    0.00    0.00    1.49    2.61    17.10    31.11
_  (7.28)  (0.61)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.20)  (1.91)  (0.00)  (11.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-49-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods (and related services)
All contracts for goods estimated to cost USD 0.1 min equivalent or more will be subject to prior review.
Contracts not covered by prior review will be post-reviewed on a selective basis.
Consulting Services
Each contract for consulting services by firms estimated at US$ 0.1 mln equivalent or more and USD 0.05
mln equivalent or more for individuals will be subject to Bank's prior review. Contracts below the above
thresholds will be subject to selective post-review. All TOR irrespective of amount will be given prior
review. Follow-up assignments will be permissible to the extent that the possibility of contract extension is
foreseen in the initial LOI or TOR.
Post Review Ratio
The post review ratio will be one in three contracts.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (USD thousand)              Method                  (USD min)
1. Works                         n.a.                     n.a.                    n.a.
2. Goods                     100 and above                ICB                     287.0
Below 100                   IS               (all contracts 0.1 and
DC              above, first three IS and
first three NS contracts and
all DC contracts)
3. Services                    Above 50               See Table Al                13.3
(Firms: all contracts 0.1
and above, IC all contracts
0.05 and above)
4. Training                       n a                QCBS and AP                   11.8
(All budgets items will be
given prior review)
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 312.0 million;
incl. taxes and
contingencies
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
-50-



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table B1: Procurement plan
Procurmeat Items                  T     Item     No     Dur-        Totl       Proe     Sourec      Proc
yp     No.      Lo      tion       cost      S&L         of       Sehed
c      in       t     (iapse    (lae tax    Meth      flanae
cost    Co        d       & duty),     od         e
table    ntr    time)       uS5
act                ain
L Consuitants Services                                                                             Docum      Isue       Coit-      Coet-
eats to     Did        rat        ract
Bank                  start     comlple
Up        tiOn
(a) Poliey and deslgn:
(i') Revie.wt existing uiigeL    C      I (a)    1       0.5        0.75      QBS       Loan      July 02     Sept      Feb-03      Oct-03
classificationst anJid disign a   S      (i)             year                                                  -02
reviset! Chart of Accoints.
(ii) Develop the legs, regulatory  C    I(a)     1     3 years      4.10      QCB       Loan      July-02    Sep-02     Feb-03     June-06
and operational fiamework,        S      (ii)                                   S
including guidelines, procedures,
regulations, fonni and operaing
manuals for budget execution
expenditur forecasting, frisca
reporting; cash management and
audit;
(Di) Accounting and Financial    C      I(a)     5     4 years      1.12       IC       Loan      Dec-02     Feb-03     Mar-03      Dec-06
Specialists (individual           S      (ii)
Constiultants) for specialized
tasks relatd to the development
ofthe legal rgulatory and
operationl ftrarnework, including
guidelines, procedures,
regulations, fomns and operating
manuals for budget extcution
expenditure forecasting, focal
repotting; cash nmnagement and
audiht
(iv) Develop functional           C      I (a)    1        4        3.57       QCB       Loan      Aug-02     Oct-02     Mar-03     Dec-06
specifications for the TLS and    S      (iii)           years                  S
amoclated technology
architecturs, procurment of
associated technology and
managenent of the
implementtion procew;
(v) Information Technology         CS     I(a)    is       3.5        1.49       IC       Loan      Dec-02      Feb-0     Mar-03      Jun-06
Specialiuib to assist in the design       (iii)           years                                                   3
and inplenentation oftechnical
architectures associated with the
Trasury systems;
(vi) IT& Functional specialists    CS     I(D)     12     2 yrs       1.49       CQ       LoAn      Dec-02     Dec -03    Mar-03      Jun06
specialists as above                      (iii)
(vii) Quality Assurance of design  C     I(a)    _       4.5         1.49      QCB       PDU       Aug-01     Sept-0     Jan-02      Jun-06
and implementation work           S      (iv)            years                  S        Loan
Total (a) policy and design                                         14.01
fInanced by Loan
- 51 -



(b) Integrator Design             C      I(b)     1     4 years     R.80      Natio      Govt.      NA        Dec-00     Oct-01     Jun-05
Consultancy                       S                                             nal
Pruot
reme
nit
Pmce
(c) Technical support and         C      l(c)    35       1.5       8.30       Natio     Govt.       NA       Apr-05     Sept-05     Dec-06
implementation services such as   S                      years                  nal
data conversait, etc. reqLured for                                             Pmcu
implementation of the mnw                                                      reme
Treasury system across the                                                      nt
country. These assignments will                                                proce
be corascted out as 90 sepamte                                                 dures
conracts for specific tasks
associated with the roll-out of the
system to designated oblass
(total 90) and associated rayons
(toal 2,100) as part of an overall
rIll-out plan.
Total (b) Dedgn and (c) Support                                    17.10
fanaaeed by Gov't
LTotd ConsultingServices                         60                 31.11
IL Goods
a) Hardware fanced by Loan
(i) Equipment (servers and        G      11(a)
workstations), including
associated systems software,
office management software,
associated peripherals.
Networking coats (LAN and
WAN) including associated
software. Secure information
transfer costs (encryption/
decryption) for the central
facilities at Treamury head
quartes, oblast and rayon
Treasury offices.
(ii) Procurement packages         G               1                 69.70      ICB       Loan       Sep-03     Jan-04     Jun-04     Jun-05
covering the Oblasts and all
associated rmyons at which the
system is to be installed this year.
(ii) Saie as above one year later  G              I                 60.45      ICB       Loan      Sept-04     Jan-05     Jun-05     Jun-07
covering dte oblasts and all
associated rayons in which the
system is to be instlled.
(iv) Residual equipment related   G              30                  2.65       IS       Loan       Jan-03    Mar-03      Dec-03     Dec-07
to the above installaions in
individual contracts sot
exceeding S100,0t0.-
(v) P-oprietay items. Residual    G               5                  2.09       DC       Loan       Jan-03    Mar-03      Dec-03     Dec-07
equipmet related to the above
installations
(vi) Miscellaneous Office         G              Se
Equipment                                        ver                 0.30      Natio     Loan       Jan-03     Mar-03     Dec-03     Dec-07
al                            nal
shopp
ing
Total (a) Hardware financed by                                      135.19
the LUa
-52 -



b) Hardware fiaaned by Govt
(i) Workstations                 G               _                41.15      Natio     Govt.       NA       Apr-01    Aug-01     Dec-04
nal
Proce
dures
(ai) Office equipment (copiern,  G                                13.94      Natio     Govn       NA       Aug.00     Dec-00     Dec-01
printers)                                                                     nu]
Procu
reme
nr
Pesce
dures
(iii) Servers                    G               I                 11.59     Natio     Govt.      NA       Aug-01     Dec-01     Dec-03
nal
Pmcu
runes
Itt
dums
(iv) LAN equipment, UPS and      G               1                 19.32     Natio     Govt.      NA        Dec-01     Jul-02    Dec-04
related equipment                                                            nem
Pmocu
remee
Proce
dures
Total (b) Hardware financed                                       85.99
by the Government
(c) Appilcation Software ruranced
by Loan
(i) Application software licenses,  G  11 (b)    I                118.51     ICB       Loan      Jun-02     Oct-02     Feb-04     Dec-07
development, and customization,
DBMS & Application
Development Tools
(ii) Misellaneous application    G     11 (b)   30                 3.05       IS       Loan      Dec-02     Mar-03     Sep-03     Dec-07
sftware items in individual
conrtruts not to exceed USS
100,000 each
(ui) Miscellaneous proprietary   G     11 (b)    5                 2.03       DC       Loan      Dec-02     Mar-03     Sep-03     Dec-07
items of application software
Total (c) ApplIatIon Software                                      123.58
financed by the Loan
(d) Software and seeurity system5s
financed by Govt
(i) Software financed by         G                                 12.98      Nat      Govn        NA       Mar-03     Mar-3      Dec-06
Govemmert                                                                    proc
pmrce
(ii) Security information syatems                                             Nat      Govt.
for the military and internal                                                proc
security departments                                                         pruce
(iii) LAN equipment for secuae    G     11 (c)   1                  2.06       Nat      Govt        NA      lan-01     Sep-01     Dec-02
systes                                                                         p[c
proced
(iv) Computer equipment fir secure  G    11 (c)  3                   1.62      Nat      Govt.       NA      lan-1      Sep-41     Dec-02
-53 -



systems                                                                             proc
proced
(v) Technical services to reviw     G      11 (c)   3                    8.60       Nat       GovL        NA        Jan-OI     Sep-Cl      Dec-03
existing situation and design                                                       proe
-s  rity systems                                                                   proced
(vi) Secure communieation centers   G      11 (c)    1                   7.57       Nat       GovL        NA        Apr401      Dec-01     Jun-03
for regional centers                                                                proc
I preced
(vii) Development of                G      11 (c)    1                   13.52      Nat       GovL        NA        Dec-01      Jun-02     Dec-04
communication infrastucture                                                         proc
proced
Total (d) Software and Scurity                                          46.34
systesa flonaced by the
Governmtent
H. Total Goods                                      88                391.11
m. Training                                III
(i) Financial management and        T      III      Se                  2.45       QCB       Loan       Jun-03     Sep.03      Dec-03      Dec-06
Treasury operations courses.        R      (a)     ver                             S +
al                              AP
(ii) Technical systems courses     T       Ill      Se                  3.50       QCB       Loan       JunM02     Sep-02      Dec-02      Dec-06
R      (b)      ver                            SA+
ul                             AP
(iii) Other courses                 T      III      Se                  4.52       QCB       Loan       Jun-02     Sep-02      Dec-02      Dec-06
R      (c)      ver                            S+AP
al
(iv) Study tours                    T      Ill      Se                  0.64       AP        Loan       Jun-02     Sep-02      Dec-02      Dec-06
R      (d)      ver
a]
(v) Training financed by             T      lI(e)    2                  2.000       Natio    GovL        NA          Jan-05      Jun-05     Dec-06
Govemment                            R                                               nal
Proce
dures
m. Total Training                                                      13.11
IV. Operating Costs
Project Management Includes,        CS      I(d)     10       5.5        6.37      IC        Loan        NA         NA           Jul-00     Dec-06
project management, monitoring,                              years
procurement, disbursement and
acounting required foe the PiU for
the duretion ofthe project
Total Project Coast                                                   441.70
Action Plan to Strengthen Procurement Capacity at the P1U
The PIU already has procurement specialists (PS) familiar with the Russian public procurement legislation
and World Bank procurement procedures. The PIU will strengthen its procurement capability with the
assistance of a highly qualified international consultant. Before any IT procurement package will be issued,
the consultant will be hired to assist the PIU in the development of bidding documentation, correspondence
with bidders and during bid evaluations for a period of at least two years and longer, as necessary. The PIU
will consist of a Project Manager, several Procurement and Financial Management Specialists and
- 54 -



Component Managers. The PIU will be responsible for the day-to-day operational work, including
procurement monitoring and reporting activities. The PIU will submit quarterly progress reports in
compliance with the LACI reporting format
Training Information and Development on Procurement
Staff of the PIU procurement group have received training in the disciplines of planning, tendering,
evaluation, award and supervision of contracts in accordance with the World Bank's procurement
guidelines and relevant standard bidding documents. Procurement staff working on the project have
attended the Intemational Training Center of the ILO in Turin, Italy, and its two courses relevant to the
project work: one on Information Technology and the other on Equipment Procurement Management.
Bank Procurement Support and Supervision
Mr. Karl Skansing from the Moscow Office will provide on-going procurement support and supervision
during project implementation. Mr. Naushad Khan from the Washington Office will provide support with
respect to review and presentation of all packages requiring OPRC clearance.
Estimated date of Project Launch Procurement Workshop: November 2002.
Estimated date of Publication of General Procurement Notice: May 2002.
Are bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations? No.
These are being prepared by Consultants financed by Government counterpart budget.
Is there procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business? Yes.
Domestic Preference for Goods. Yes, if requested by MOF.
Domestic preference for Works. Not applicable.
Advance procurement: No.
Retroactive Financing: No.
Co-financing: N/A.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-55-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The loan will be disbursed over a period of six years. Disbursements will be made against eligible project
expenditures for goods, including technical services, and consultants' services. As shown in Table C, goods
will be financed at 75%. Consultants' services will be financed at 100%. Also, the front-end fee (if any)
will be financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
Funds will be disbursed using traditional disbursement methods: statements of expenditure (SoE)
reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the PIU has gained experience with the financial management
system and reporting formats under PMR, and provided that a financial management specialist has
reviewed these practices and found them to be satisfactory to the Bank, the Project may move to
PMR-based disbursements. The PIU will be responsible for preparing PMRs on a quarterly basis and
fumishing them to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount In US$million        Financing Percentage
Goods and Supply and Installation        188.22         100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures (ex factory cost)
and 80% of other local expenditures
Consulting Services                       11.00                       100.00
Training                                  8.72                        100.00
Incremental Operating Costs               5.00                        100.00
Un-allocated                              15.75
Total Project Costs                      228.69
Front-end fee         2.31                        100.0
Total                                    231.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements against contracts below the following thresholds will be made against statements of
expenditures:
US$ 0.2 million for goods
US$ 0.1 million for consulting firms contracts
US$ 0.05 million for individual consultants contracts
For these expenditures under SoE, detailed supporting documents evidencing payments to consultants and
suppliers will be kept at the PIU. These documents will be made available for the required audits, as well
as to the Bank supervision missions upon request.
All other expenditures above the SoE thresholds will be submitted on the basis of full documentation.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government will establish a Special Account
(SA) in a local bank, to be operated by the MoF under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The
Bank will, upon request, make an Authorized Allocation of US$ 5.0 million. Applications for the
- 56-



replenishment of the SA will be submitted monthly (or earlier as desired) or quarterly at the latest. The
replenishment application will be supported by the necessary documentation, the SA bank statement, and a
reconciliation of this bank statement. The SA will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank.
The Authorized Allocation for the SA is US$ 5.0 million provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$ 2.5 million until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall
equal or exceed the equivalent of US$ 10.0 million.
Financial Management
The financial management capacity assessment was conducted by the Bank FMS in April, 2002.
Executve Summary and Conclusion. The financial and accounting departments of the PIU are staffed by
very competent and experienced staff, and are guided by a very thorough and clear Operations Manual,
which covers both project and general PIU issues. Reporting and audit requirements are clearly detailed
with adequate directives for the Project financial statements and Entity financial statements preparation.
Based on the assessment of the Project and FER as the implementing agency, the Treasury Development
Project meets the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
Country Issues. The financial management capacity within the Russian Federation is currently the subject
of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment, which was completed in FY2001 but has not yet been
finalized. Primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the
financial management capacity in Russia have been mitigated for this project, by the use of an existing
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for project implementation. An agency agreement has been signed by
the Borrower and the FER, assigning FER the role and responsibility for the financial management.
However, one country specific issue, that may affect current financial management capacity of the project
and FER, should be noted. The Federal Center for Project Finance has notified all PlUs about the
implications of the new Labor Code on PIU staff salaries. The Labor Code that became effective on
February 1, 2002, appears to require that all budget funded institutions adopt government salaries, unless
otherwise specified in legal or normative acts. The Labor Code is retroactive in a sense that it also applies,
starting February 1, 2002 to relations existing prior to the Code's effectiveness date. Therefore, it appears
that where salaries have been paid that are above the government level, this may be considered as a
violation of the Code. The Government is discussing both immediate and longer term options to deal with
this situation. One of the proposals being discussed is establishing PIU staff salaries by the Governmental
degree.
Risk Analysis. During the design of the project, considerable time and emphasis has been placed on
minimizing all project risks. The use of an established and superbly functioning PIU was a key factor, and
the expertise of staff in implementing IBRD projects cannot be over-emphasized. The Internal Control
system of the PIU with respect to the disbursement and accounting functions, is very adequate and
complete. Given the size of FER, there are clear and correct segregation of duties, approval and
authorization requirements, reconciliation requirements and review duties.
The major risk remaining at the time of the assessment relates to implications of the new Labor Code on
PIU staff salaries, and therefore, the financial management and procurement capacity of the FER.
- 57 -



However, every effort is being made by the Bank and the Government to mitigate such risk, and to come to
the appropriate solution.
Implementing Arrangements. The Treasury Development Project is a part of Federal Program of
Treasury System Modernization to be implemented during the period 2000-2006. A Steering Committee,
which is headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the RF, is going to monitor the Program. The Committee
consists of representatives from Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade,
Ministry of Taxes and Duties, Central Bank, State Duma, Accounts Chamber, and other interested bodies,
and is going to meet at least once in 3 months.
The key role in Program coordination lies with the Ministry of Finance. It is responsible for Program
implementation, including preparation and implementation of the Program plans; preparation of terms of
references, technical specifications; selection of contractors; signing of contracts, etc. For coordination of
Program activities within the MOF, a Directorate of the Program, headed by the Deputy Minister of
Finance, has been established. The Directorate consists of the representatives form the Main Departments
of the Federal Treasury, Budget Department, Department for Interbudget Relations, Department for
Infornation Technology, and Department for Intemational Coordination and External Debt Management,
and is responsible for the project coordination and control. The Program Directorate meets at least once in
a quarter.
The Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER) has been
nominated as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the Project. FER will be responsible for activities
related to project monitoring, administration, accounting, disbursement, procurement and periodic progress
reporting to the Bank. FER will maintain the Project Special Account, and will disburse the funds under
the project within five days after MOF authorization. FER reports to the MOF Project Unit.
FER is a non-commercial, non-profit foundation founded in July 1996. Presently, the founders are
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, Ministry of Industry Science and
Technology, Central Bank of Russia, Ministry of Transport, Leontief Center, and Foundation of Housing
Reform, State Committee for Construction, as well as Agency of Restructuring of Credit Organizations.
FER is currently implementing six World Bank financed projects: (i) Financial Institutions Development
(Loan 37340-RU); (ii) Enterprise Support (Loan 37630-RU); (iii) Enterprise Housing Diversity (Loan
40120-RU); (iv) Sustainable Forestry Pilot (PDL grant and Loan 45520-RU); (v) Northem Restructuring
(PDL grant and Loan 461 10-RU); (vi) Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance (Loan 45280-RU). It was also
the implementing agency for the preparation of the Treasury Development Project, financed by PDL grant
and TF25812.
Govemance over the FER's activities is through the Foundation Board which is a supervisory body
consisting of fourteen members headed by two Co-Chairpersons (First Deputy Minister of Industry Science
and Technology, and Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank of Russia) with support of Executive Secretary
of the Board. Board meetings are conducted annually or more frequently as required. Minutes are kept for
all the meetings. The main functions of the Board are to approve changes to the Charter; major
restructuring of activities; the annual budget; changes to the organizational structure and staffing
(salaries); the annual report of FER including audited financial statements; the structure and composition of
Project Management Committees (PMC's).
- 58 -



In addition, a Project Group is going to be established within the MOF. The Project Group will help the
MOF with project implementation and monitoring of the project progress. It will consist of the Head of the
Project Group, Deputy Head, Senior System Manager, Manager of Information Component, Manager of
the Legal Base Development Component, and the assistant. The head of the Project Group is going to be
nominated by the Program Directorate and will report to the MOF and the FER Administrative Manager.
Funds Flow. Basically, there are two sources of financing of the proposed project - IBRD Loan Funds and
federal budget funds. Loan funds are disbursed either directly for the Loan account, or from the Special
Account opened in the local Bank. Co-financing funds, except for the payments of taxes, duties, and other
mandatory charges, are to be disbursed directly through the Treasury. In addition, funds for payments of
taxes, duties and other charges are to be regularly transferred by the MOF to the bank account of the FER.
Furthermore, MOF will allow the FER to use the interest accrued on the balances left on the Special
Account as the co-financing funds for payments of taxes, etc.
Staffing. The financial management staffing of the FER is clearly detailed and described together with
flowcharts and terms of references for each staff member, in the Operations Manual.
Responsibilities for project and entity accounting and reporting are separated between Financial and
Accounting Departments. The Financial Department is headed by Mrs. Galina Gloukhova who is
supervising 3 staff members and is responsible for disbursement, preparation of annual project financial
statements, PMRs/FMRs, and special reports conceming projects implementation for different controlling
govermmental bodies and projects related Ministries. The Accounting Department includes 2 staff members
and one consultant, and is headed by Mrs. Irina Namrud. Ms. Namrud is responsible for the preparation of
quarterly and annual RAS financial statements; IAS annual financial statements; monthly, quarterly, and
annual tax retums; and reports to the State Statistics.
Review of resumes and given the past expertise of FER in successfully implementing projects, it is
concluded that accounting and financial staff have necessary professional qualifications and training. All
current financial staff have undertaken extensive WB disbursement and financial management training, and
are very experienced in the financial management of Bank financed projects. There is no requirement for
additional accounting or financial staff at the moment, however, after the project effectiveness, at least one
additional financial expert will need to be hired.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. The detailed description of accounting policies is included in the
Accounting Policy Manual of the Foundation. This Manual was prepared by the Deloitte & Touche
specialists, and is strictly followed by the financial and accounting departments for accounting under other
WB financed projects.
All intemal control procedures, including but not limited to project funds disbursement, safeguarding of
project assets, authorization of payments, segregation of duties, are described in details in the Section 6 of
the Project Operating Manual.
External Audits. The current auditor of the FER is the Bank-approved firm Ermst and Young, which has
extensive experience with WB projects, and has audited the Foundation and projects for the last three
years. Auditors have issued an unqualified opinion on FER for the 1998, 1999 and 2000 IAS financial
statements. All project audits reports for the last three years were also unqualified.
The project would be subject to annual audits in accordance with International Standards on Auditing of
Project financial statements, Statement of Expenditure and Special Account. The Project will be audited by
- 59-



a Bank-approved external audit firm. Audited financial statements should be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of reporting period. Furthermore, as agreed with the Bank in 1999,
multiproject PlUs are required to submit entity audits to the Bank not later than six month after the end of
reporting period. Therefore, FER would also submit audited financial statements, prepared in accordance
with International Accounting Standards (LAS), and audited in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing, by the same date.
Reporting and Monitoring. Project reporting and monitoring pTocedures are clearly described in the
Section 8 of the Project Operating Manual. In addition to the regular reporting to the MOF and other
federal bodies on the project implementation, FER is going to submit to the Bank the following reports:
*   Annual FER financial statements - by June 30 each year, including
a. Balance Sheet;
b. Statement of Operations and Accumulated Surplus (Deficit), and
c. Statement of Cash Flows;
*   Annual project financial statement - by June 30 each year, including
a. Project Sources and Uses of Funds;
b. Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
c. Special Account Statement; and
d. SOE Withdrawal Schedule.
*   Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports - within 45 days after the end of each full
calendar quarter, including
a. Financial Reports:
a. Project Sources and Uses of Funds, and
b. Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
b. Physical Progress Report
a. Project Results Monitoring report;
c. Procurement Monitoring Reports
a. Procurement Monitoring Report (Goods);
b. Procurement Monitoring Report (Consultants and Training)
*   Annual reports on project physical progress indicators - by February 15 each year.
Project financial statement - both quarterly and annual - are to be prepared on the modified cash basis of
expenditures recognition; FER annual financial statements are to be prepared in accordance with lAS. Both
types of statements are to be produced using the current FER accounting software - Platinum.
Information Systems. Starting from January 01, 2002, accounting of all project related transactions, is
kept in the computerized accounting system based on the Platinum SQL (PSQL) software. PSQL is very
flexible for the accounting of entity and project transactions; printing of necessary documents; keeping
archives of transactions for each project; budgeting; preparation of Russian Accounting Standards (RAS)
and lAS entity financial statements; quarterly and annual financial statements for each project; as well as
reports required by MOF. This new system was tested in parallel with the former system during the forth
quarter of the CY2001, and the results were satisfactory.
Supervision Plan. In addition to annual audits by independent extemal auditors, the project will be visited
at least once a year by the Moscow based FMS to review the adequacy of the financial management
system, and to follow up on the findings and recommendations of the prior year's audit.
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24                           39
First Bank mission (identification)             03/15/1999                  03/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     04/12/2001                   04/12/2001
Negotiations                                    03/15/2002                  03/18/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/15/2002
Prepared by:
The State Treasury of the Russian Federation and the World Bank
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     Speciality
Allister Moon                     Lead Economist and Task Team Leader
Ali Hashim                        Lead lnformatics Specialist
Neil Parrison                     Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
Ljudmilla Poznanskaya             Operations Officer
Piyush Desai                      Consultant, OCS
Karl Skansing                     Senior Procurement Specialist
Jonathan David Pavluk             Senior Counsel
Clifford S. lsaak                 Senior Financial Management Specialist
Naushad Khan                      Senior Procurement Specialist
David Freese                      Disbursement Officer
Alexander Balakov                 Procurement Specialist
Anna Jouravleva                   Financial Management Officer
Tatyana Frolova                   Disbursement Officer
Douglas Summerfield               Operations Officer
Lilian Canamaso                   Program Assistant
Dolly Teju                        Program Assistant
Yelena Dobrolyubova               Team Assistant
- 61 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Terms of reference for Systems Integrator;
Terms of Reference for Institutional Review;
Treasury - Implementation Plan
Presidential Program on the Developments of the Federal Treasury of the Russian Federation
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Minutes of the PCD meeting;
Quality Enhancement Review
Report on Budget Management 1998
Report on Issues in Budget Management 2001
Minutes of ROC Meeting
Aide Memoires of Appraisal and post appraisal Missions
Note on subnational treasuries
C. Other
IMF Reports (Treasury, Budget classification)
*Including electronic files
-62-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frn ReVd
POSD489       2002 FISC FED & REG FISC REF                         120.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     120.00      0.00      0.00
P050474       2001 EDUC REFORM                                      50.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      50.00      6.53      0.00
P008832       2001 MUNWATER&WW                                     122.50      0.00                 0.00      0.00     122.50     26.54      0.00
P046061       2001 MOSC URB TRANS                                   60.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     568.13     15.77      0.00
P064238       2001 N RESTRUCT                                       80.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      80.00      1.25      0.00
P038551       2001 MUN HEATING                                      85.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      85.00      5.38      2.39
P058567       2000 REGFISCTA                                        3000       0.00                 000       000       25.82     11.32      0.00
P053830       2000 SUST FORESrRY PILOT-RU                           60.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      59.40      8.40      0.00
P050487       1999 STATESTATSSYST                                   30.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      27.23     11.90      2.96
P046496        1998 SOC PROT IMPL                                   28.60      0.00                 0.00      0.00      10.53     10.53      0.00
P044200        1997 8UREAU OF ECON POL                              22.60      0.00                 0.00      0.00       4.69      3.79      0.83
P008825       1997 EDUC INNOV                                       71.00      0.00                 0.00      3.00      47.86     28.65      0.00
P050891        1997 ELEC SECTR REF                                  40.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      37.42     37.42     37.42
P008814        1997 HEALTH REFORM PILOT                            6B.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      40.45     33.13      0.00
P042622       1996 CAP MRKT DEV                                     89.00      0.00                 0.00     33.75      31.06     64.81      12.51
P045622        1996 COALIAP                                         25.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00       7.08      7.08      7.08
P036973       1996 ENT HOUSING DIVST                               300.00      0.00                 0.00     122.74    124.80    237.54      56.17
P008801        1996 BIODIVCONSV(GEF)                                 0.00      0.00                20.10      0.00       1.77      3.68      .5.39
P008831        1996 LEGAL REFORM                                    58.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      27.61     27.61     23.28
P00880        1996 ODS CONSMP PHASEOUT(GEF)                          0.00      0.00                60.00      0.00      13.51     20.44      -2.51
P035764        1996 BRIDGE REHAB                                   350.00      0.00                 0.00     195.33     12.26    207.80     49.80
P035761        1996 COMMUNITYSOCINF                                200.00      0.00                 0.00     56.50      41.69     83.53      11.69
P008806        1995 URBAN TRANSPORT                                329.00      0.00                 0.00     77.60       2.60     80.20       1.B9
P008803       1995 EGY EFF                                         106.50      0.00                 3.20     43.45       6.32     88.27      0.32
P040409       1996 EMG OIL SPIL MIGATON                             99.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00       0.79      0.79      0655
P008821        1995 ENVMGMT                                        110.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      46.24     46.24      2.02
P008823        1995 PORTFOUO DEVT                                   40.00     000                  0.00      6.95       7.92     14.87      13.17
P008827        1995 HOUSING                                        400.00      0.00                 0.00     150.73     59.22    209.95     89.22
P034579        1994 LANDREFIMPLSUPPORT                              80.00      0.00                 0.0       0.00      18.55     18.55     *11.13
P008839        1994 ENTERPRISE SUPPORT                             200.00      0.00                 0.00     50.00     100.03    150.03      27.02
P008828       1994 FIN INSTS                                       200.00      0.00                 0.00     59.50      64.84    124.34      34.89
Total:    345220        0.00              83.30      799.65     1335.34   1584.13    323.96
- 63 -



RUSSLAN FEDERATION
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996/98            Alpha Cement                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99            Aminex                       0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
1998               Borsteklo                    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Bravo                       15.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Campina                      6.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.73    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               DCC                          0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1999               DLV                          0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1995               Depsona Z.A.O.               0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00
1998               DreVo                        0.00    0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00
1995               First NIS Fund               0.00    5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.70    0.00    0.00
1994               Framlington Fund             0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Ikea MOS                    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Mosenergo                   16.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002               NBD                          2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               NMC                          2.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               OMGC                        10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Pioneer First                0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Probusiness Bank             0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1994               RTDC                         0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998/01            Ramstore                    30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Ruscam                      13.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Russ Tech Fnd                0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Russia Registry              0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
0                  SCF Restructured             0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00
2002               Sonic Duo                   24.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Toribank                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               UNEIM Bank                   5.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               ZAO Storaenso                5.40    1.50    0.00    0.00    5.40    1.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      145.87   46.97    6.50    17.00   98.27  46.96     6.50    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001              Bema Gold                        0.00     0.00      1.00     0.00
1999              DLV                             3.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              Ford Russia                     55.00     0.00      0.00    55.00
2001              Pakenso - RI                     0.00     0.00      0.20     0.00
2002              Russ Stndard Bnk                15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              Sonic Duo                        0.00     6.00      0.00     0.00
2002              Swedwood Tichvin                 5.90     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              Volga-Dnepr                     25.00     0.00      0.00    25.00
Total Pending Commitment:      103.90     6.00     1.20     80.00
-64 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Treasury Development Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL:                                  Ruslft       etrl     mlddl:-
.   .. .... ..               Fdeaton           Asa     ncme        Developmentn diamIond'
Poputallon. nmti-vear (miilionrs)   1x 45.5                          475     2.046                   Life expectancy
GNI noF CaDiYa (Aflas method. USSIj                     1.660      2.010      1.140
GNI (Afias method. US$ biltions)                        241.6        956     2.327
Av'enrge an'n'ual gr'owt"h. 1994-00                              ... 
Labor feron  1)      ::.'      >                        0.0        08         13      GNI                                Gross
Pe,           .                  primary
MAost mcent estimate lantast year available. 1994.001  ::capia                                                         enrollment
Paoveuv (16 of pop.ulation Weow nerional povertv lne)     30                                 l
Urban oooulation (16 of tota Piop0tulationi                73         6?        42
t.~q qiipctoncy et~lrQt (yars) C::                   66         69        69
Irtfalltmortality (per1~~~~~~~~000l(t'ebk1hs)  1~~~~~  2 1       32
Child mainutrition (% of enild,en under Sja                            ...       v           Access to Improved water source
Access to an limonloced waler source (16of pop,ulairon)  !::  99      90        8
llilieracv (16 of noDuiafron &oe 15.1 J.                 C:C           3        1
Gross Drimarv enrolirneni /16 of schtooi-ae Poouiafionl ) ..~.        0         1      ~    ~    Rs(nFdrto
Male                                                   109                   116....Lower-mnlddie-income group
Female                                            .     108       >99        114                            ...  . .      .. ...
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                    k... .
......... .  . .. . .               118       9 0       1 9       20   00  
... . Economic ratiott
GDP (USS biliions)                                .    1,100.1     193 2     .2511 A:
Gross domestic invesntment/Glp,           C: ;           3~         14:.6       72    :rd
EXtrotboflaOfd0dt ArIdAelviddafOD            .:- 43.9                          45.9
Gross domostio savflgS5/GDP: ... .:...... .10.3                     3.        382:
Grosis nilionaisseiinsslGP.                                           3       3
Curren~acoouot balance/GOP . . .        .     10.6       16.7   .. Domestic                     Ivsmn
lilterost payments/QQP                  1.1       11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Invsten
.Toial debt/GDP                                                     906                . aig
Toata debl serviceteX DorlB                                         11.5n9.
Presrnt value cof debt/GOP                                          07.7'
Pieserti value of debUeXOrD1  ..15.
..   .....  .....Indebtedness
:::198090: 11990-00      1999o      290    2000-94
GOP                                             -4S.8     5.4A       6.1        4.-ooRussian Federation
GOP Del capita .                                -.4.6     5.         8.9      4.7 ..   I      -   Lower-middle-f ncomne group
Esoporls of goods end serviIes"                -0 9      .18        4.3        2.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980      1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (6
(16 of GDP)
Agriculture                                       .      16.6        7A         7.1     2
Industry                                          .      48.4       35.5       36.7
Manufacturlng                                                                                                               D
Services                                          ..     35.0"      57.1'      54.2 
Private consumption                               .      48.9       52.1      47.9     .at
General government consumption                    ..     20.8       16.7       13.8              -     GDI     -*-GDP
Imports of goods and services                     .      17.9       27.4       24.6                                            -
(average annual growth)         ~~~~~1980.90  1990.00    1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (6
Agriculture                                       .       -8.0      10.7        5.0     40T
Industry                                          .       -7.6       9.8       11.8    2o
Manufacturing                                    .         .         ..         .
Services                                          .       -3.3       2.2        2.9
Private consumption                               ..      2.0       -1.6        8.2    .2t
General government consumption                    .       0.3        3.0       12.9    .40
Gross domestic Investment                         .     -18.4        5.7       17.3              -  Exports   ---*  Imports
Imports of goods and services                     ..     -7.4      -28A4       17.5    1-
Note: 2000 data are preiiminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average. If dale are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 65-



Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1880     1890     1999      2000     Inflation I(V)
Domestfc prkes                                                         2a
(X change)                                                                     400
Consumerprices                                ..     5.6      85.7     20.8    300
Implicit GDP deflator                        ..     15.9      64.7     37.1    200
Govemment finance                                                               100
(X of GDP, includes current grants)                                              n
Current revenue                               ..      ..      33.5     37.1             55   96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                        ..      ..       1.3      7.8           -   GDP deftor     *CPl
Overall surplus/defiat                        ..      ..      -3.6      2.9
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                         75,666  105,566      2500
Crude oil                                   ..       ..   14,101    25,319
Natural gas                                  ..      ..    11,352   16,644    100,000
Manufactures                                ..       ..    8,500    10,000     75.0001
Total imports (cit)                                         41.757   47.192      50.000
Food                                         .       ..    8,100     7,400
Fuel and energy                              ..      ..      419      471      25.000:                     11181111111
Capital goods                                              10,S0    10,600         a               M   a
Exportprice index (1995=100)                  ..      ..        82      112            94   9s  go   97   gs  99   oo
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        85       82              H Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      ..        96      136
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJSS millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (S)
Exports of goods and services                 ..      ..    84,738  115,200     20
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..    52,970   62,290
Resource balance                              ..      ..    31,768   52,910     15
Net income                                                 -11,900   -11,154    10
Net current transfers                                          542       90
Current account balance                       ,.      ..    20,410   41,846      5 -
Financing Items (net)                         ..      ..   -16,583   -23,432     o
Changes in net reserves                       ..      ..    -3,827   -18,415        94   95   06   97    Bs   09   00
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (USS millions)        ..       ..    12456    27,972
Conversion rate (Official, IocaUUS$)         ..       ..      24.6     28.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS militns)                                                                   Compoattion of 200e debt (USS mitl.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ,.      ..   175,103   162,023
IBRD                                        ..      ..     6,809    7,067                        A 7087
IDA                                                            0        0           G: 17.953       0      11,813
Total debtservice paid                        ..      ..     9,761   11,165                                 D 251
lBRD                                                         520      679
IDA                                                                     0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..      ..        ..       ..
Official creditors                          ..      ..       577     -688       F: 60.3s9                   E:94,900
Private creditors                          ..       ..      -176     -330
Foreign dirdct investment                  ..       ..     1,348     -347     1                    -
Portfolio equity                           ..       ..      -200     -100
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..       ..       430      183     A-IBRD                     E - bilateral
Disbursements                              ..       ..       538      540      B-IDA    0 - Other mu(tdateral  F-Pivata |
Prindpal repayments                         ..      ..       150      267    CC-IMF                      G - Snat4em1I
Net flows                                   ..      ..       388      274
Interest payments                          ..       ..       370      412
Net transfers                              ..       ..        18     -139
Development Economics and Country Team.                                                                           9/6/01
-66-



Additional
Annex 11
Current Status of the Treasury System and Remaining Issues
The Russian Treasury was established as an organization in 1992. Since then the Treasury has developed a
substantial organizational structure and implemented a system to manage the budget execution process. In
addition to the Treasury Headquarters in Moscow, about 89 branches of the Treasury have been
established at the oblast level and about 2,150 Treasury units have been established at the rayon level. A
total of about 50,000 staff work in these offices. Some of the essential elements of a full-function Treasury
system have already been implemented by the Treasury. Noteworthy aspects include:
(a)    Budget appropriations for spending ministries and spending units are recorded in the
Treasury system;
(b)    Spending limits for spending ministries are sanctioned by the MoF and the limits for
spending units as sanctioned by the parent ministries, are recorded in the Treasury system;
(c)    Expenditure transactions are routed through the appropriate branch of the Treasury which
then forwards them to a branch of the central bank if these transactions take place at the
oblast level, or to savings bank branch if these transactions take place at a level where
there are no branches of the central bank,
(d)    The Central Bank/savings bank have opened "personal accounts" for Treasury for these
spending units at their various branches;
(e)    Prior to forwarding the expenditure transaction for payment to the appropriate Central
Bank/ savings bank branch, the Treasury ensures that the expenditure is in accordance
with the budget appropriations and sanctioned limits for the spending unit;
(f)    Revenue transactions from taxpayers etc. are deposited in the appropriate accounts at the
central bank, which then informs the Treasury of the receipts. The Treasury advises the
STA on the amounts of revenue received from various types of taxpayer.
(g)    The Treasury system has been gradually extended to cover all budget expenditures. The
last remaining revenue area (the Customs committee) and the major parts of the last
expenditure area (the Ministry of Defense) have now been incorporated.
(h)    During 2001, the treasury system was also extended to cover off-budget revenues and
expenditures of spending units.
Status of Information Systems Support Treasury Functions
The Treasury is currently using a number of custom-developed application software packages at its central,
regional (oblast) and local (rayon) offices to assist it in performing its functions. At present all oblast and
some 2,000 rayon Treasury offices have implemented a basic set of information systems.
On the expenditure side, the main systems in use are the SMETA-F and SMETA-W and the Raskhody
PPS. Of these the Smeta packages are the most widely used. The Smeta F package is Foxpro-based, the
Smeta W package is written in Visual basic and uses the ACCESS database. A more advanced version of
-67-



SMETA, based on SQL-server is currently in use in six oblasts. Though oblast and rayon Treasury offices
have often made changes to the SMETA software used at their sites, the core functionality of the software
is the same. More recently, an integrated system that combines the functions of the SMETA and the
KAZNA packages, called Center F, has been developed and is being tested in six regions.
These packages are used to: (a) record data on cost estimates received from spending units/ ministries; (b)
record and process funds allocation transactions from the MoF to the Ministries and then from the
ministries to their subordinate units; and (c) process payment requests received from spending units at the
local Treasury offices. The essential control in the system, however, is on the amount of funds allocated by
the MoF to the spending unit for a given economic category. The system checks for the availability of funds
and then processes a payment order against Treasury accounts held at the local branch of the
CBR/Sberbank
The system has the capacity to receive payment requests and cost estimates from the spending units in
electronic form, but this facility is in general not implemented since spending units do not have the
necessary facilities to produce these documents in an electronic form that can be read by the system. The
links from the Treasury units to the cash settlement centers of the Central Bank used for transmittal of
payment instructions to the Central Bank are mostly electronic. In such cases the Central Bank regards the
Treasury as just another client bank on its payment system and the corresponding Treasury office uses a
special workstation and software provided by the Central Bank to provide electronic signature and secure
data transmission facilities. In areas where these links are not possible the transactions are carried to the
Bank in hard copy format
The Raskhody PPS is a more robust Oracle-based system that has been implemented at the Moscow City
Treasury and one rayon within its jurisdiction. The functionality in use with this system at the rayon level is
essentially the same as that with the SMETA package. The Raskhody system, however, also has the
capacity to assist the Treasury in its operations at headquarters, as well as the oblast and rayon levels.
Since the system is based on an industrial strength DBMS (Oracle) it can be used to process much larger
transaction rates and maintain large data base sizes. Only one of the rayons in the Moscow city jurisdiction
are using the Raskhody system, the rest of the rayons within this area use various versions of the Smeta
software. This implies that the two types of software can be mixed with the Oracle-based software being
used at the larger oblast sites and the SMETA software at the rayon sites.
On the revenue side the Treasury uses a Foxpro-based system, KAZNA, to process receipt transactions
from the CBR oblast branches and maintain necessary data. This system is also in wide use across the
country.
- 68 -



The above systems are able to provide the basic support required for Treasury functions. The full range of
Treasury functions, such as commitment recording, General Ledger, and comprehensive reporting, have not
been implemented as yet Even for the short term these systems would benefit from some basic
enhancements in functionality to provide better fiscal reporting and report consolidation facilities,
enforcement of spending limits, and basic ledger etc, which are viewed as some of the high priority needs. It
is felt that these enhancements, accompanied with an improvement of operating procedures related to these
systems, could provide reasonable support to the Treasury over the short term, until a full-function
Treasury system can be designed and developed.
Key Remaining Issues in the Development of the Treasury and Government plans
The key remaining issues in the development of the Treasury can be divided into two groups. The first
relates to the extension in Treasury coverage and the second to improvements in functions and procedures.
The main items in each of these groups, the Government's plans and the current status of progress, are
summarized below:
L Extension of Treasury Coverage
Inclusion of the Ministy of Defense
The Ministry of Defense (MoD) and the Federal Treasury successfully completed two pilot projects in the
Privolzhski Military (Samara) region and the Baltic Fleet for processing the MoD payment orders by the
FT starting in 1998. The pilot projects highlighted the special requirements for confidentiality, separate
LANs, secure telecommunication channels and special banking arrangements. Following the pilot stage, it
was decided to transfer the MoD to the system in two phases. The first phase (MoF Order No. 108n of
December 30, 1999) involved setting up of an account in the central FT for release of budget
appropriations to lower level units. It also included extending the FT system to centralized procurement and
other centrally made expenditures of the MoD from an account opened in the FT department of Moscow
City, and a gradual extension of the FT coverage to all payments of the MoD and the next (second) level
units. The second phase, involving transfer of the third level units to the FT system, has now been
completed. Further integration of MoD will involve extending FT operations to a substantial number of
units operating at lower levels nation-wide. This could involve an additional 5,000 spending units with
about 15,000 accounts. The information systems support is being enhanced to ensure security of
information transfer between spending units and the Treasury and between the Treasury and the CBR
branches. The additional transaction load requires upgrading in the hardware installed at the Treasury
offices which will be responsible to process these transactions.
Inclusion of Custom Revenues
Until recently, the largest exception to the FT's coverage on the revenue side of the budget were the
accounts of the Customs Committee, which were maintained in commercial banks accounts outside the
CBR and Sberbank systems. The FT had run a pilot in three areas for transferring customs accounts to the
FT and this has now been expanded to other areas. The pilot project was implemented in Rayzan,
Ulyanovsk and Irkutsk, and this was later extended to the regions of Primorsky-Krai, Smolensk, the
Chuvash Republic and Brayansk. An agreement was also reached between the Customs Committee, the
Ministry of Finance and the CBR (Ministry of Finance No. 58n dated 22.06.2000) to start servicing
Customs transactions, through the nominal accounts opened in the FT, in the Bashkiria Republic,
Dagestan, the Tartar Republic and East Siberia. It is planned that by the end of the year all Customs
Committee accounts shall be transferred to FT execution.
- 69-



Many custom revenues are paid electronically, including the use of POS terminals at customs posts. In
these cases, the necessary information is transferred electronically between the Customs Committee, the
Federal Treasury and the Central Bank. The average time for full settlement and reconciliation of an
electronic payment is said to be 3 days. However, paper transactions are still used in some cases, including
for refunds. These processes may be significantly more time-consuming. In order to ensure a smooth
transfer of the customs accounts without any degradation in service, the Treasury would need to provide
facilities that will enable the customs offices to get information on all payments in a timely manner. This
will require a significant upgrade in the Treasury's systems.
Extrabudgetary and Budgetary Funds
Before 2001, the major extra-budgetary funds were the Road Fund, the Employment Fund, the Social
Insurance Fund, the Medical Insurance Fund, and the Pension Fund. In accordance with tax legislation, the
Employment Fund forms a part of the Federal Budget from 2001. The 2001 budget also incorporated the
Road Fund at the federal level. At the regional level it will still remain an extra-budgetary fund. The Social
Insurance Fund, the Medical Insurance Fund and the Pension Fund shall, for the present, remain outside the
Budget.
Previously, there are also a large number of budgetary funds which were within the budget, but treated as
separate earmarked items for purposes of financing. The FY2001 budget eliminated earmarking for the
following funds: (i) Ecological Fund, Fund for the Federal Tax Police, State Anti-Crime Fund, Prospecting
Fund, Fund for Support of Military Reform, Biological Resources Fund, Aqueous Resources Fund, and the
Fund for MoF Audit Divisions. Only one earmarked fund remains, namely the Fund for nuclear safety.
Off-Budget Accounts
Government resolution No. 1001 of August 1998 stipulated that the off-budget bank accounts of federal
agencies, which were used for handling revenues and expenses related to the commercial activities of the
agencies, should be closed and that the balances should be transferred to the FT. The FT would open a
nominal account for the off-budget activities of each agency and all revenues and expenditures would be
processed through the appropriate local or regional FT office. The agencies were required to submit
proposals regarding the necessary amendments in the legal and regulatory statutes for their off-budget
activities. The original resolution was amended by resolution N 1239 of October 1998, which states that the
stipulations shall not apply to educational, cultural, public health care and science institutions.
The original deadline for the closure of bank accounts and transfer of funds was January 1, 1999. This
deadline met with considerable opposition. The original fast-track strategy was replaced with a graduated
approach, which included registration of all off-budget accounts, and the concentration of funds in one
bank account for each agency. This account must be approved by FT. The new approach was outlined in
resolution No. 9 of February 1999. This resolution also eliminated the previous exemptions for certain
sectors. The concentration was completed for most agencies by the beginning of 2000.
The closing of off-budget accounts has several legal and institutional implications. Some of the agencies
have statutory rights to conduct off-budget activities. The MoF is preparing proposals for amendments in
the relevant legislation. FT has had difficulties in obtaining reports of the off-budget accounts of agencies,
because banks feel they could breach banking confidentiality regulations. The MoF is preparing
amendments to banking laws to facilitate such reporting. The agencies have been asked to clarify whether
any of their current off-budget activities should be separated from the agency and organized as a separate
- 70 -



corporation or other commercial operation.
The regulations in this area are also relevant for the off-budget activities of sub-national governments.
Resolution No. 1001 recommended that member regions of the Russian Federation apply similar measures
to the ones required for federal agencies, and the 2001 budget law contains corresponding
recommendations. The City govemment of St Petersburg has already integrated the off-budget accounts in
its regular Treasury procedures.
The Treasury estimates that there are approximately 30 000 OBAs. Treasury's information systems are
being upgraded to accommodate the additional transaction traffic resulting from the inclusion of off-budget
accounts.
Definition of Budget Organizations
Russian legislation and budget practices have lead to ambiguities regarding the definition of what
constitutes a budget organization and the legal rights and obligations of this organization. Until 2000, the
budget has included appropriations to a large number of budget users or recipients. These terms include
many different types of organizations:
*   pure "spending units," subordinate to a ministry, and largely dependent on budget funds
*   more autonomous units that have large other sources of incomes, but predominantly carry out
government policies
*   units that are largely entrepreneurial but receive budget support for part of their operations and are
so indicated in the Budget.
MoF has recently carried out a survey of budget recipients, to clarify the specific organizational status of
each unit. The preliminary results are given in the table below.
Table 4: Types of Budget Recipients
Organizational Type                    Number
Institutions                            15,713
Unitary Companies/SoEs                    639
Joint Stock Companies                      322
Non Profit Organizations                   105
Others                                    205
Total                                   16,984
It should be noted that the number of budget recipients in table 4 is much smaller than the total number of
spending units. When the spending ministries compiled the lists of budget recipients, many of them were
consolidated in groups, without specifying the numbers. The total number of spending units is not known,
but is estimated to be at least 50,000 in the civilian part of govemment and at least 5,000 units in the
military sector.
- 71 -



Ambiguity regarding the definition of a budget organization is partly related to Article 120 of the Civil
Code, which defines a budget unit as an institution which is entitled to the budget funds under the federal
law on the budget for the given year. This article also gives "legal entity" status to budget institutions,
protecting their right to operate bank accounts for "own source" revenues, and to enter into contracts
without MoF approval. The MoF is attempting to resolve or mitigate the legal ambiguity in this area by
proposing amendments to various pieces of legislation, including to the budget code and banking
legislation.
The establishment of a central register for all spending units will be a crucial prerequisite for facing the
capacity constraints of the FT and for managing the extension of FT's responsibilities to cover all federal
government financial activities. The introduction of a new organizational classification, with a unique
identifier for all spending units, will also be a critical step towards improved planning, monitoring and
accounting for budget implementation in a consistent manner.
Sub National Governments
At present two types of arrangements are in existence regarding Treasury functions at the sub-national
level. In the first type of arrangement, the Federal Treasury is performing some or all Treasury functions
for some sub- national governments. In the second type, some sub-national governments have established or
are considering establishing independent treasuries. These arrangements are described in greater detail
below.
Treasury Management Services Provided by the FT
Federal Govemment Decision No. 222 of March 13, 2000, followed by Regulations of April 19, 2000,
have been issued authorizing the FT to perform budget execution services to heavily subsidized regions
which lack technical and manpower resources. However, of the 14 regions approached by the FT for
concluding agreements, only 7 have responded positively. Among these, in some regions only the revenue
functions are covered. It is possible more regions will come forward to avail themselves of FT services,
provided any reservations they may have about the impact of such a course of action on their freedom to
make expenditure decisions and control their budget resources, are removed.
However, before such services are indiscriminately extended to other regional govenmments -there are over
80 oblast/city govermments and more than 2,000 rayon-level governments in the Russian Federation-- the
following constraints should be bome in mind.
* Servicing spending units of all regional govenmments will probably increase the workload on FT by
a factor of three. This will have substantial implications on the staffing and equipping of regional
offices of the FT.
* The FT modemization project currently underway does not cater for inclusion of sub-national
Treasury management, and may call for additional investments.
* In tandem with training of Treasury personnel, the spending units also need to be provided with
familiarization courses to get them acquainted with the services that the Treasury will provide
them. This is a time-consuming operation that should be factored into any plans for extension of
FT services.
* During the year 2001 FT will have added several new service responsibilities-Ministry of
Defense spending units, Custom revenues, and off-budget operations of spending units. This
substantial additional workload will, possibly, impose heavy demand on the FT resources. It is,
therefore, advisable for FT to extend regional services in manageable phases.
- 72 -



Sub-National Governments Establishing Their Own Treasury Systems
The Budget Code empowers sub-national governments to develop their own treasury systems, should they
so desire. In some regions such a course is already reported to be under implementation.
The St. Petersburg city govemment has already established its own treasury which provides efficient
budget execution and payment services. This has been achieved through considerable investment in
computing resources (approximately US$3.0 million). It is reasonable to assume not all regions of the
Russian Federation will have access to technical and material resources of a similar order. There are also
other features of the St. Petersburg model-such as multiple treasury accounts in commercial banks and
decentralization of treasury accounting-which may not be the most appropriate route to follow by other
regions, especially in oblasts and rayons with numerous and widely dispersed spending units, weak
communication infrastructure, and an insufficiently developed banking sector. In such regions a simpler
treasury model with a central treasury supported by a network of sub-treasuries may prove to be more
appropriate.
The key factors that would influence final choice of the option most appropriate for a sub-national
govermment in RF are:
* The core Treasury functions can be conceptually divided into two main groups: (i) centrally
administered functions closely related to the fiscal autonomy of the sub-national governments that
can be efficiently handled by the sub-national finance committees, and (ii) day-to day retail
operations --receipt and payment operations of mobilizing revenues into the TSA, settling payment
claims of spending units, and transaction level accounts keeping-that can be performed by an
agency such as the FT without impacting on the fiscal autonomy granted to sub-national authority
under the Budget Code.
*   Of the two groups of Treasury functions, it is the retail Treasury operations that are resource
intensive both in manpower and equipment it is in the execution of these that an agency with local
presence can execute with relatively marginal increase in cost.
*   For the agency concept to succeed, it is necessary to clearly define the boundaries of agency
operations so that there is a complete accord between the agency and its beneficiary govemment on
what the relative responsibilities of the participants should be. This can be realized if a concerted
effort is made to enlarge the understanding and provide reassurance to the sub-national authorities
to remove any misunderstanding of whether such an option will impinge on their fiscal autonomy.
*   Irrespective of any option that is considered appropriate in RF environment, it is essential to lay
down minimum Treasury management standards that must be adopted by all levels of the
governments
11. Improvements in Treasury Functions and Procedures.
Budget Classification
The MoF Budget policy department acknowledges the need for improving budget classification and
simplifying the budget coding structure.  A  recent IMF mission (April 2001) made several
recommendations in this regard, and the MoF are currently considering how to implement these
- 73 -



recommendations. The functional and economic budget classification of expenditures and the economic
classification of revenues and debt should be changed in line with recommnended intetnational practice
(GFS). The presentation of the budget on ministry level with program subgroups should be developed
further, facilitating a gradual move to program budgeting. Targeted programs should be included in the
general classification of revenue and expenditure, and defense expenditures should be classified in line with
civil agencies.
Chart of Accounts
The Chart of Accounts (CoA) is the basis of the Treasury General Ledger. In a modem accounting system
the Ledger is also the basis of generating timely management information reports on budget execution, as
well as meeting other user needs. The IMF mission reviewed these issues, and recommended that the
current, hierarchical chart of accounts should be replaced by a multidimensional framework, containing a
set of tables. Each table would capture a specific dimension of the accounting transactions. MOF should
prescribe a uniform chart of accounts for use by all spending units, at all levels of the General Govemment
Sector, and the GFS-compliant budget classification for functional and economic categories should be used
for setting up the detailed financial accounts. Both flows and stocks accounts should be structured on the
basis of the functional and economic classification of the budget.
The MOF should take urgent steps to compile and maintain a comprehensive organizational classification
of all general govemment sector units, and the authorities should use fund codes to identify transactions
pertaining to off-budget and extrabudgetary funds and thereby, bring in the recording of transactions of
such funds into the general framework used for handling budgetary transactions. A coding structure should
be set up to capture transactions at different stages of the expenditure cycle. The CoA should facilitate a
gradual transition from cash to accrual accounting.
Changes in the budget classification structure and charts of accounts would require changes in the
application software currently used by the Treasury. The IMF mission in April 2001 recommended that the
MOF initiate a transition from the current cash-based accounting framework to an accrual-based system.
A first step would be to introduce full coverage of accounts payable and receivable. This could be done
from 2003, and should only require minor modifications in information systems, in particular to handle
consolidation and reconciliation of the information on accounts payable and receivable. A next step could
be to introduce accounting of all financial assets and liabilities. This is a much more ambitious reform and
would require significant changes in systems and applications. This should be coordinated with the
introduction of the new GFMIS. A final step would be to move to full accrual, including proper accounting
of all non-financial assets and liabilities. This is a very chalUenging reform which will have to be phased in
over several years.
Commitment Recording
Commitment control was instituted by Order No. 806 dated July 15, 1999, for recording commitments at
the Treasury for certain spending codes relating to heating, consumption of natural gas, fuel for boilers,
electric power & water supplies. The contracts are now registered & stamped by the Treasuries, confirming
they have not exceeded the authorized level of their commitment limit, and without this registration stamp
spending units are forbidden to use federal budget funds to pay for the contracts. The Federal Treasury also
generates a monthly report, for each Ministry, indicating the Budget classification, the amount of
commitments recorded and paid. Similar details are also available for off-budget funds. The report is
produced by the 25th of the following month and copies sent to the BPD and the relevant ministries.
- 74 -



Detailed instructions on the maintenance of commitment recording data have been developed and
implemented by GoR Resolutions No. 806 dated July 15, 1999 and No. 55n of August 13, 1999. The
additional workload generated by this task is being handled with the existing staff available in the field
offices of the Treasury. The information systems needed to handle this work need to be developed as most
of the work in this area is being handled manually. However certain regional Treasuries have developed
small programs to handle this aspect of work. Implementation of commitment recording and instituting a
check for the existence of a prior commitment before approving a transaction would require enhancements
in the application software used by the Treasury.
The gradual move to an accrual oriented CoA will serve to integrate much of the information that otherwise
might be handled through a separate commitment management system.
Fiscal Reporting
The local offices of FT capture all transactions at receipt and payment stage by full budget classification.
However, this detailed transaction information is recorded in a separate accounting register. It is aggregated
before being posted in the accounting ledger that uses the present CoA This means that the detailed
transaction data, including economic classification data, are not available to the regional and central offices
of FT through the general ledger.
The monthly fiscal reports now produced are by functions. Reports by composition of expenditure
(economic categories) and institutions, which are needed for receipts and expenditure monitoring, are done
only at the end of each quarter after reconciliation with similar reports submitted by the line ministries. The
FT authorities recognized the need for monthly budget execution reports by full budget classification, but
cite the need for reconciliation against financing limits as the cause of the present delay in generating
reports by full classification.
The new budget classification and chart of accounts, recommended by the IMF mission, will lead to
significant improvements in the quality of financial information, management and reporting. The new
framework will capture all important financial parameters, there will be no redundancy of information, and
relevant information will be immediately available for management purposes. If there is a decision to
gradually move to a partial accrual-based accounting system, this will provide for additional improvements
in the capacity for medium and long-term planning, risk management, analysis and other aspects of more
advanced financial management and reporting. The increased consistency and quality of the underlying
accounting framework, the use of international reporting standards with little conversion, and the increased
timeliness and reliability of the reports, should gradually increase external confidence in Russian fiscal
reporting and eventually in the Russian economy.
As mentioned above, the steps necessary to improve fiscal reporting will require enhancements in the
application software currently used by the Treasury.
Treasury Single Account
The current plan is to establish a Treasury Single Account (TSA) in the head office of the CBR, and to
have sub-accounts for each regional Treasury office in the regional CBR branch. According to the CBR, it
is necessary to first consolidate all FT accounts in a region into a regional single account and to close all
accounts in other banks in the region. When this consolidation has been completed, the regional account
can be converted into a sub-account to the central TSA, which is automatically balanced at the end of each
day. Until this point, transfers between the regional and central single accounts will require specific
-75-



payment orders. The complete consolidation of all bank accounts in a region requires that there are
facilities for all the local Treasury offices to submit all payment requests to the regional Treasury, which
would submit them to the CBR for payment. The entire process is envisaged to take four years, and to be
completed in 2004.
The development of the single account is closely related to the capacity and performance of the inter-bank
clearing and settlement system. CBR operates a clearing system consisting of regional clearing centers in
each region and a national clearing center in Moscow. Manual clearing procedures are still used quite
extensively. Seventy three percent of transactions are based on electronic procedures and 27 percent on
manual procedures. According to the CBR, it takes at least two-three days before a payment in one part of
the country reaches the recipient in another. The CBR is planning to move towards a modem, real-time,
gross settlement system, but there is no specific timetable for this. They are also working on improving the
capacity of the banking system to handle electronic payments, including recognition of electronic
signatures, which currently are not accepted under Russian legislation.
Transferring to this system would require changes to the application software used by the Treasury.
Financial Management
The practice of laying down monthly commitment limits, followed by a system of cash rationing based on
the CBR's cash balance reports (received at five-day intervals), creates a situation where the SUs are
allowed to commit but are not able to meet their contractual commitments. BanklMF missions have
recommended that the cash rationing system be dispensed with and the line ministries given assurance of
financial resources at least up to the commitment levels. According to the FT, this practice has now been
discontinued.
-76-



I  I*~~~~~I       -L        111I1-I44
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..........   ..                                                      i                    ...
N                                                                                                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
..................          .................. .........  55e................&....................................... ....I...... L t 
~~ i t LZL +rt ~~~~~~.............                              ........ . .........S;e  *d 
:-|~~~~~~~~~9_~~~~ a                                                                                    .... - fi. ... . =+S..,_
u   s  su   iD     -  --   -----  1  -       -   -  -  ---  --  --  -  -   ----  -  -  -     -........  -...  ----. -----------
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~. . .  . . . . . . . .   . . . . .  .  . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I. . . . .. . . .  . . . . .   .   .  . . .
g        Ia



_                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~97 | se | 99 |00 |I 0|02 |03 | 04 j 05 | 06 |07   OB
ID    Task Name                                                                    YD7 | YiB I 99 |02 | 03 | 04 | OS | Ol6 '07         'OB
tO    Implement Systems at Pilot sit*e                                                                        2126 _I1        Bn.
51         install. Customize and Test Appi ShW (Pilot Sites)                                                  2/26   i    n
52         Customize /Develop training material
53         Train Users (Pilot Sites)
54         Complete Pilot System installation                                                                         8        B
55     Replicate Systems country wide                                                                       11m _l                       10124
56         Procure and Install Any Additional H1W Required
57             NIW Trench I
58              HWN tranch 2
59         ReplIcate systems s all remalning sItes                                                                                       10/24
60              First Set of replications
61                  Receive and Install HWW and Systems S/W
62                  InstaC and Test Application SNV
63                  Train Users
64                  Cut over to FuJl System (TLS)
65                  Treasury system fully operational                                                                                   VD
66              Second ut of replications
67                  Receive and Install HrW and Systems SNW
6B                  rIst4C and Test Application SW                                                                        2
69                  Train Users                                                                                          26 m        2
70                  Cut over to FuLl System (TLS)                                                                                       10/24
71                  Treasury system fully operalional                                                                                     10124
72              Systems Replication Completed                                                                                  1012t        1W24
73              Project Complete                                                                                               10124      10
- 78 -



IBRD 27188R
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
REPUBLICS KRAIS OBLASTS OKRUGS
'1   i ,,   F :-  I - L   I  :
-  -  'Inl I-I,Il  i.-i _.HJ :1 
_ .                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I     -
.                                   -.                                     _% 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
r                                                                   6.
-2                I-                                                                     -_                      ..                                        .                            .
,On  -                    _                                                          .                   4
N'    42\                           -c -s {X                A>,9  c.,, -7 ,_(/                        -     
&~~~ i Xr-t                                                                     tpN J' tYQ                                                                     K 
J~ ~~~~                           ~~ ---.-2 540 3>       e?B7                                                   -f15M
39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9~
OORIAN -.   v  ,        Iu                K/AI0A '-                                                  - -~~                  - |. I          ,
00011                                                                                            -           -or -AF  - 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
i'  L) K R Al  26~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~0             0   aO   eD   00K.DEER            -'  ~
I. NORTH     11 NORTHWEST           111. CENTRAL         IV CENTRAL        V. NORTH CAUCASUS     VI. VOLGA       VII. VOLOO-VVATKA  VIII. URAL      IX. WESTERN SIBERIA  X. EASTERN SIBERIA  TI. FAR EAST
IArkhangcl  7. Neegered       12. Rryonsn 22. Tula       CHERNOZYOM       20. Chechen          40. Astrelchen  4R. Chevosh        53. Beshlberleslen  61. AlBel      70. Euryot        80. Amer
2 lenoez   8 Pskoe           12. venovo  22. Vladimir  25 EeIgowod      31. Dogrosron        41. KoIwykea-    49. Kirev         54. Chelyobinsk    62. Gerny AIIoI  71. Chite        81. Kooiehotko
3Kern 'a    9.Lorigrod         14. Koluga  24. Vorosloel  26. Kursk      32. lngus6               KheImg Tengchs  5T. Moriy El    55 Kurgan       62. Kemeroeo         72. Agin Euryot    82. Kerywk
4. Kewi       10. Sr.Petnrsbarg City  15. Kostromo      27. Lipotsb        22. Kohordine-Relher  42. Pence       Sl. Merdoe        56. Oronhurg    64. Novesibirosk   72. Irksutsk       83. Klrohoroosh
SMerwenssk                     16 Moscow               28. Towhev         24. Krasndodr        43. Semore       52. Nizhniy Noegorod  57. Perm    65.0Owsk             74. UsI-Ordyr Teryol  84. Jewish AO
6Voleogda                      17. Moscow CRy          29. Vorroneh         25. Adygeya        44 Serelee                           58. Koroi-Pormielc 66. Ternsk    75. Kresneoyrsk   85. Megedon
18. Orel                                   26. Nenth Ossetia    45. atolrsten                      59 Udmurt       67. Tywer            76 Evenk           86. Chelset
1 9. Ryeeee                                27. Restov           46. Volgegred                      60. Soerdleesh     68. Kheany-Mensi   77 Shaken       87. Priwershi
20. Sweolns6                               28. Strerrepel       47 Ulyenevsk                                          69. Yewole-Nonots  78. Teimnir     88. Sekhelin
11 KoIirninroe    21. Tver                                      29. Kerecheeno-Chorkoss                                                                 79. Tuve           89 Seche (Yolwt)
DECEMBSER 1945



