                                   Document of
                                 the World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2537



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-46620)



                                      ON A

                         ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$231 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                             RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                      FOR A

                     TREASURY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                   IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

           US$ 400 MILLION TREASURY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



                                 December 20, 2012




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)

Russia Country Management Unit

Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)

                      Currency Unit = Ruble (RUB)

                           RUB 1 = US$ 0.03
                           US$ 1 = 33.1 RUB

                             FISCAL YEAR

                        January 1 - December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AP     Agreed Procedures
APEC   Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
APL    Adaptable Program Loan
ASW    Application software
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
DBMS   Data Base Management System
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CBR    Central Bank of Russia
DoD    Department of Defense
DO     Development Objective
EA     Environmental Assessment
EBF    Extra-Budgetary Funds
ESW    Economic Sector Work
FER    Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring
FID    Financial Institutions Development
FMIS   Financial Management Information System
FT     Federal Treasury
FTAS   Federal Treasury Automated System
GFS    Government Financial Statistics
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    International Development Association
IFC    International Finance Corporation
ISR    Implementation Status Report
IMF    International Monetary Fund
ISR    Implementation Status Report
IT     Information Technology
LAN    Local Area Network
MoF    Ministry of Finance
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR    Midterm Review
NGOs   Nongovernmental Organizations
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Program Development Objective
PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development Fund



                                     ii
PS      Procurement Specialists
RDBMS   Relational Database Management System
SA      Special Account
SU      Spending Unit
SAL     Structural Adjustment Loan
TA      Technical Assistance
ToR     Terms of Reference
TS      Treasury System
TSA     Treasury Single Account
TTL     Task Team Leader
UPS     Uninterruptible Power System
WAN     Wide Area Network



            Vice President:        Philippe Le Houerou
            Country Director:      Michal Rutkowski
            Sector Manager:        William Leslie Dorotinsky
            Project Team Leader:   Cem Dener
            ICR Team Leader:       Elena Nikulina




                                    iii
                                                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION


                                      TREASURY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                             CONTENTS

Data Sheet
      A. Basic Information................................................................................................................. 1
      B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................. 1
      C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................. 1
      D. Sector and Theme Codes...................................................................................................... 2
      E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................. 2
      F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................ 2
      G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs............................................................................... 6
      H. Restructuring (if any) ........................................................................................................... 6
      I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................................ 7


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................... 8
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................. 14
3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................................... 19
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................................... 27
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................ 30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........................... 32

Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................................. 35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................................. 37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................ 40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................... 41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................... 52
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 72
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 73
Map................................................................................................................................................ 74




                                                                         iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Treasury Development
Country:                Russian Federation       Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P064508                  L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-46620
ICR Date:               12/21/2012               ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:                RUSSIAN
                                                                          FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 231.00M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 229.74M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 231.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Federal Treasury of Russia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/07/1999     Effectiveness:             10/02/2002       10/02/2002
                                                                                  07/14/2006
Appraisal:             04/12/2001     Restructuring(s):                           10/30/2009
                                                                                  12/23/2010
Approval:              06/06/2002     Mid-term Review:           10/15/2008       11/17/2008
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2007       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                 1
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rule of law                                                      33                  33
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                       67                  67
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Michal J. Rutkowski                  Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Manager:            William Leslie Dorotinsky            Helga W. Muller
Project Team Leader:       Cem Dener                            Allister J. Moon
ICR Team Leader:           Elena Nikulina
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath
                           Elena Nikulina


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective was to assist the Borrower in the organization of an
efficient system of treasury execution of the federal budget, with appropriate legal and
institutional framework, systems and procedures.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective was not revised.



                                                   2
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from      Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target          Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
                Ensure conditions for effective implementation of the budget through payment
Indicator 1 :
                process centralization
                                                                              All SUs in the
                0% of spending units                                          country are now
                (SUs) covered by          100% of the SUs                     covered by
                centralized payment       in the country                      centralized payment
                processing through        covered by                          processing through
Value
                Treasury. SUs had         centralized                         Treasury system
quantitative or
                individual bank accounts payment                              (with the exception
Qualitative)
                (totaling to several      processing through                  of embassies and
                thousand) in commercial Treasury by                           some remote
                banks. SUs made           project end                         Department of
                payments directly.                                            Defense (DoD)
                                                                              units).
Date achieved 01/01/1997                  06/30/2012                          06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Timely presentation of fiscal accounts for external audit.
                                                                              Budget reports are
                                                                              presented for
                                                                              review to the
                                          Budget reports
                                                                              Chamber of
                Budget reports presented presented for
Value                                                                         Accounts: by chief
                for external audit within external audit
quantitative or                                                               budget funds admin
                10 months of close of     within 3 months of
Qualitative)                                                                  in 3 months (on
                fiscal year.              close of fiscal
                                                                              April 1st); by the
                                          year.
                                                                              MoF in 4 months
                                                                              and 20 days (on
                                                                              May 20th).
Date achieved 01/01/1997                  06/30/2012                          06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                Training of adequate numbers of financial and technical staff to operate new
Indicator 3 :
                system.
                                          About 20,000 staff
                Staff in the Treasury     need to be trained
                                                                              The full scope of
Value           currently use a set of    in and be able to
                                                                              training activities
quantitative or interim systems and have operate new
                                                                              was completed
Qualitative)    been trained in their use system at all
                                                                              satisfactorily.
                (some 20,000 staff).      oblasts and rayons
                                          by project end.



                                               3
Date achieved 01/01/1997                    06/30/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                Treasury ledger systems with required functionality implemented at 3 pilot
Indicator 1 :
                oblasts and associated rayons by December 2006.
                At start of project a                                          New FTAS system
                                            FTAS
                variety of custom                                              implemented in 3
Value                                       implemented at
                developed systems                                              pilot regions in live
(quantitative                               three pilot oblasts
                support treasury payment                                       mode. Legacy
or Qualitative)                             and associated
                and receipt processes at                                       system switched
                                            rayons.
                the designated pilot sites.                                    off.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                    12/31/2006                         12/31/2009
Comments
                Achieved with a delay due to legislative changes introduced before the initiation
(incl. %
                of the pilot testing.
achievement)
                Treasury ledger systems with required functionality rolled out to all oblasts and
Indicator 2 :
                associated rayons
                                            New systems
                                            rolled out to all
                Currently a variety of
                                            Oblasts and                        FTAS rollout was
                custom developed
Value                                       associated Rayons                  successfully
                systems support treasury
(quantitative                               by project end.                    completed in 83
                payment and receipt
or Qualitative)                             FTAS will be able                  regions on Sep 5,
                processes at Oblasts and
                                            to record all stages               2011.
                Rayons.
                                            of the expenditure
                                            transaction
Date achieved 01/01/1997                    06/30/2012                         09/05/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Timely and reliable budget reports produced for MoF / Treasury / Budget
Indicator 3 :
                Agencies by end of project
                                            The new Treasury
                                                                               All necessary
                Some budget reports are system should
Value                                                                          reports are
                produced by various         produce a
(quantitative                                                                  presented through
                systems in use across the complete set of
or Qualitative)                                                                the new system in
                Treasury Offices            budgetary and
                                                                               83 regions.
                                            fiscal reports.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                    06/30/2012                         12/28/2011
Comments
                Achieved.
(incl. %


                                                 4
achievement)
                Treasury single Account established at the NBR; SU bank accounts at
Indicator 4 :
                commercial banks closed
                                                                                TSA established at
                                            TSA established at
                                                                                NBR; SU (in
                No TSA is operational at NBR; SU (in
                                                                                country) bank
Value           NBR; In-country SUs         country) bank
                                                                                accounts have been
(quantitative   have individual accounts accounts closed
                                                                                closed
or Qualitative) at commercial Banks-        (except 2% of the
                                                                                (except for 2% of
                totaling several thousand SUs located out of
                                                                                the SUs located
                                            country).
                                                                                outside).
Date achieved 01/01/1997                    12/31/2004                          12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                New management processes and expenditure controls for budget execution in
Indicator 5 :
                place and functioning by July 1, 2007.
                                                                                Treasury based
                Treasury based
                                                                                expenditure
                expenditure processing,
                                            Federal Treasury                    management
                which includes
Value                                       performing cash                     processes are now
                notification of spending
(quantitative                               execution of the                    operational across
                limits and budgetary
or Qualitative)                             federal, regional                   most of the Gov
                control by Treasury was
                                            and local budgets.                  (except embassies
                started selectively for
                                                                                and some remote
                some SUs.
                                                                                DoD units).
Date achieved 01/01/1997                    07/01/2007                          12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                Revised budget classification system adopted and budget prepared according to
Indicator 6 :
                new classification. First stage revisions 2003; finalized 2005.
                Changes in the budget
                classification system were The new budget                       The new budget
Value           initiated to make it        classification                      classification
(quantitative   conformant with the GFS system should be                        system has been
or Qualitative) and make it more useful introduced from                         introduced from
                for budgetary control and 2005.                                 2005.
                fiscal reporting purposes.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                    01/01/2005                          01/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)




                                                5
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
       Date ISR
No.                             DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    11/26/2002           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     2.31
  2    06/27/2003           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     3.02
  3    10/22/2003           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     3.13
  4    05/14/2004           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     3.37
  5    12/20/2004           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     3.55
  6    06/17/2005           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     3.55
  7    01/10/2006           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     9.61
  8    05/17/2006           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     9.89
  9    03/02/2007           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            11.69
 10    10/10/2007           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            12.64
 11    12/12/2007           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            12.64
 12    06/24/2008           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            15.71
                                                    Moderately
 13    01/23/2009           Satisfactory                                          44.75
                                                  Unsatisfactory
 14    06/24/2009           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            56.73
 15    10/21/2009           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   61.14
 16    06/09/2010           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   81.14
 17    01/26/2011           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  141.87
 18    08/20/2011           Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  163.77
 19    04/08/2012           Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory              190.48
 20    08/24/2012           Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory              214.88


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 07/14/2006               S       S           9.89   Closing date extension
 10/30/2009               S       S          64.77   Closing date extension
                                                     Closing date extension and
 12/23/2010       N       S       S         133.01
                                                     reallocation of funds




                                           6
I. Disbursement Profile




                          7
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: In the late 90s of the past century, fiscal situation in
Russia continued to be under stress, as was evidenced by the federal Government deficit
exceeding its targets. As a result, the authorities had to resort to a system of weekly cash
rationing in the face of insufficient revenue collections. A disturbing manifestation of this
fiscal stress was the progressive accumulation of expenditure arrears. Such a situation
was a clear indication of the critical need for more effective budget execution and
expenditure management systems capable of exerting better control over public
expenditures.

In the process of transformation from a centrally planned to a market economy, the
prevailing public expenditure management system would have to shed some of its
previous functions and take on new tasks in order to be an efficient instrument of
economic management. Specifically, past preoccupation with compliance with centrally
issued directives to fulfill the planned targets was no longer relevant.

Other major weaknesses in the former public expenditure management system were: (i)
budget classifications, which did not meet international standards and did not allow
meaningful budget monitoring; (ii) inappropriate legal framework for budget preparation,
approval, implementation and monitoring; (iii) weaknesses in the macro-economic
framework needed for formulation of the budget and elaboration of revenue and
expenditure projections; (iv) lack of administrative capacity to adjust the budget in
response to changing circumstances; (v) lack of reliable, comprehensive and timely
accounting information; (vi) underdeveloped debt and cash management operations that
were not linked to overall budget management; (vii) dispersion of budget resources in
many spending unit accounts, leading to unnecessarily high cash balances within the
public sector and undermining the Government's ability to manage aggregate cash flow
and minimize public sector borrowing; and (viii) inadequate capacity of the clearing and
settlement system of the Central Bank of Russia.

Project Background. The TDP was approved by the Board on July 31, 2002 and became
effective on October 2, 2002. The project had originally been designed as a two-stage 1



1
    The table below summarizes the resources allocated for these stages:

                                  APL               IBRD        Gov of      Total
                                                    Loan         RF        (US$ m)
                         APL – 1st tranche           231          213       444
                                 nd
                         APL – 2 tranche             169           50       219
                         Total (US$ m)               400          263       663


                                                      8
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The first stage envisaged improvements in the
legislative and institutional framework, enhancement/re-engineering of the business
processes for budget execution, and design and implementation of an information system
based on the new requirements to capture all government expenditures and revenues
through a Treasury Single Account (TSA) system. Implementation of the new system
which would start with a pilot implementation in three regions was planned to be rolled
out to 40 regions (Oblasts) during the first stage.

The second stage of the APL (the follow-on loan) would include implementation of
additional functionality, and replication of the system to the remaining 46 regions (at the
time of project initiation the total number of regions was 89, which later on was
consolidated to 83). On completion of the second stage, the new Treasury system would
cover the entire government budget.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The objectives of the project supported several key areas
of the Country Assistance Strategy2 (CAS). Provision of more effective tools for
aggregate cash management would assist in the goal of improved macroeconomic
management. The Treasury system would provide a basis for increased efficiency and
transparency in public resource allocation. The project was intended to remedy key
system weaknesses which increase vulnerability to corruption and would provide the base
for the authorities to work progressively toward a government-wide system of internal
audit, as well as improving the transparency and public disclosure of public accounts.
Treasury development was a key component of a wider program of support to improve
public sector management, including public administration, tax and customs
administration and sub-national fiscal management. These areas were addressed in a
series of parallel projects that were initiated at approximately the same time (mid 1990s.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The Project Development Objective was to assist the Borrower in the organization of an
efficient system of treasury execution of the federal budget, with appropriate legal and
institutional framework, systems and procedures.




2
    Document number: R2001-7[IFC/R 2001-7] Date of latest CAS discussion: February 6, 2001




                                                   9
The Original Key Indicators were:
   • Implementation of a revised chart of accounts and budget classification for all
       government expenditure and revenue
   • Revisions to Budget Code drafted and adopted
   • New management processes and expenditure controls for budget execution in
       place and functioning (expenditure limits, commitment recording)
   • Treasury single account established at the Central Bank of Russia (CBR)
   • Proportion of total Government payments processing centralized through
       Treasury (with the exception of payment operations of government agencies
       located outside of Russia)
   • Improved cash management for the government as a whole; reduction in the total
       amount of the balances of the bank accounts of the regional treasury offices as a
       percent of total expenditure
   • Treasury general ledger systems operational with required functionality;
   • MoF/treasury/agencies comprehensive accounting reports produced on both cash
       and commitment basis for government consistent with international standards

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The objective itself was not revised. However, in June 2007 based on the
recommendations of the ECA Quality Control Unit, the PDO and Intermediate Outcome
Indicators were revised and new indicators were developed to make them more
measurable.

Revised PDO Indicators were:
   • Ensure conditions for effective implementation of the budget through payment
       processing centralization
   • Timely presentation of fiscal accounts for external a udit
   • Training of adequate numbers of financial and technical staff to operate new
       system

Revised intermediate indicators were:
   • Treasury single account established at the NBR
   • Spending unit accounts at commercial banks closed
   • New management processes and expenditure controls for budget execution in
       place and functioning by July 1, 2007
   • Revised budget classification system adopted and budget prepared according to
       new classification First stage revisions 2003, finalized 2005
   • Treasury ledger systems with required functionality implemented at 3 pilot
       Oblasts and associated rayons by December 2006;
   • Treasury ledger systems with required functionality rolled out to all Oblasts and
       associated Rayons
   • Timely and reliable budget reports produced for MOF/ Treasury budget agencies-
       end of APL


                                           10
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The establishment of a Treasury system has two direct benefits: (a) it enables better cash
management by placing all government financial resources under the control of the
Treasury; and (b) it ensures that budgetary expenditures are in accordance with the
approved budget by centralizing all payments related to the budget through the Treasury
and instituting appropriate controls. More generally, systems developed under the project
would enable access to timely, accurate and consistent financial information. This would
improve resource planning, budgeting and public expenditure management and control
and the capacity to properly formulate and execute fiscal policies. Consistency in the
classification of expenditure items and an effective system to control and monitor cash
flows would enhance transparency and accountability in the fiscal process.

The target population was the public as a whole. The specific interventions under the
project affected all line ministries and public sector agencies funded by the central budget.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of four components as follows:

Component 1. Consulting services US$30.30 million
This component consisted of the following activities:

Functional Aspects:
Technical assistance in functional aspects included:
(i) Reviewing existing budget classifications and coding structures, and development and
design of a revised structure and Chart of Accounts conforming with the IMF-General-
Financial-Statistics manual-(GFS) classification methodologies and suitable for both
budget preparation and implementation.

(ii) Developing the legal, regulatory and operational framework and detailed guidelines,
procedures, regulations, forms and operating manuals for budget execution processes
required at all levels of Treasury operations to implement the Treasury system.

(iii) Developing methods to improve forecasting of expenditure requirements and cash
management.

(iv) Developing the fiscal reporting system of Treasury and improve linkages between the
Treasury fiscal reports and MoF analysis.

(v) Developing detailed functional specifications for the Treasury system, including
requirements for incorporating necessary expenditure control procedures.

(vi) Assessing training requirements for institutional development, including, assessment
of the skill levels of Treasury/MoF staff to operate and manage a modern fiscal
management system as well as necessary technical skills required for the implementation



                                            11
and operation of the new Treasury system, and development and implementation of a
training, skills upgrading and recruitment program as may be necessary.

Technical Aspects:
This included:

(i) Developing the technology architecture to implement the Treasury systems and
specifying the hardware, software, and communications design, systems software and
application software platform for their operation (Operating systems, Data Base
Management System (DBMS) and application development tools);

(ii) Researching and identifying application software for the Treasury systems and
determine customization requirements and/or custom development of application
software modules as may be required;

(iii) Specifying the hardware and software requirements and prepare bidding documents
in accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines;

(iv) Supervising implementation of the budget execution and Treasury systems;

(v) Developing a plan to upgrade the technical capacity of the Treasury/ MOF, to enable
it to carry out the design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the above
systems,

Project Component 2 - Equipment and Software - US$359.05 million
Details of computer hardware, software, and related equipment envisaged to be provided
under the project are summarized below:

(i) Hardware, Systems Software, Application Development Tools, DBMSs, and
Networking Items.

Equipment and installation of servers, workstations, networks, printers, Uninterruptible
Power Supply (UPS), systems software and application development tools for central
facilities at the Treasury Headquarters, oblast and selected rayon Treasury offices.
Network management facilities and encryption/decryption devices/software and hardware
and software required for the secure transmission of information across the network.
Each office would receive appropriately-sized server(s), an appropriate number of
workstations, a Local Area Network (LAN) network, an Relational Database
Management System (RDBMS) and application development tools, laser and line printers
and Windows-based workstations and Wide Area Network (WAN) equipment, such as
routers, required to connect the office with its parent node in the overall Treasury
network.

(ii) Application Software for Treasury systems at center, regional units, and rayon units
and customization, included cost of package software purchase and customization as
identified by project consultants.



                                            12
(iii) Miscellaneous: Office equipment and training facilities for the Treasury, as may be
necessary.

Project Component 3 – Training - USS 12.46 million
The training component included financing for:
(i) Technical assistance for training needs analysis and development of an overall training
strategy and schedule for training users in light of the results of the training needs
analysis; the design and specification of in-house training facilities and/or identification
of suitable training courses within the country and abroad; the development/acquisition of
training materials, technical documentation and end-user manuals.

(ii) Staff to be trained under the project would include the MoF/Line
Agency/Government Auditors/Treasury staff and technical staff of the MoF/ Treasury
who will be involved in the development and implementation of the systems.

(iii) The project would also finance study assignments for government officials in the
budget execution and Treasury operations areas to enable them to benefit from the
experiences of other governments in these areas.

Project Component 4 - Incremental Operating Expenses - US$6.00 million
This component included technical assistance to assist the Treasury to administer and
manage the project and assist with Bank procedures (project monitoring, accounting,
disbursement. The component included financing of the costs of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) during the project implementation period.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
There was no change in project design, scope and scale, and implementing arrangements.
However, (i) there was a cancellation of the second tranche of the APL; (ii) extensions of
the closing date; and (iii) reallocation of funds. The third extension of the closing date
and the 2nd reallocation of funds were done through a Level II project restructuring in
December 2010.

(i) Cancellation of the second tranche of the APL. Based on the request made by the
Government of the Russian Federation to combine all activities envisaged under both
tranches of the APL into the first tranche, the second tranche was cancelled in June 2006.
Under this request, the Government took over full financing of the activities envisaged
originally under the second tranche.

(ii) Project Schedule. The project’s closing date was extended three times during the
implementation period:
First extension: The closing date was extended from December 31, 2007 to December 31,
2009. The main justification for the first extension request was that, a fully functional


                                            13
treasury system would be implemented at all oblasts and associated rayons across the
country within the same timeframe (as originally defined for two tranches), and the
objectives of the project, including those identified for the second phase, would be
achieved by December 2010. Therefore, the first extension request was in line with the
original objectives, scope, and schedule of the project.

Second extension: In accordance with the understanding given to the Government in
response to their original request in June 2006, and after a satisfactory mid-term review
and completion of the pilot implementation of the new Treasury system at three pilot
sites, the Closing Date was further extended to December 31, 2010.

Third extension: The Closing Date of the project was extended from December 31, 2010
to June 30, 2012. The extension was necessary to: (a) complete the ongoing Federal
Treasury Automated System (FTAS) roll-out in all 83 regions; and (b) ensure the
successful completion of ongoing/remaining contracts for FTAS implementation.

(iii) Funding allocations. During implementation, the Loan Agreement was revised
twice to reallocate funds:

First reallocation: After the cancellation of the second tranche in June 2006, the revised
allocation of resources between the government and the Bank were agreed, as follows:
                           APL            IBRD      Gov of      Total
                                          Loan       RF        (US$ m)
                   APL – 1st tranche       231        432        663

Second reallocation: In 2010 the loan proceeds were reallocated from “Unallocated? to
other loan disbursement categories due to several ongoing/additional activities expected
to be completed within the proposed extension period (during the third extension). The
procurement plan was revised to include several activities for supporting ongoing budget
reforms and provision of additional training on IT Security for Treasury managers and
staff, as well as an Information Technology (IT) Audit. The following reallocation was
done in line with the revised procurement plan:

   •   USD 11.670 million from Category 4-“Unallocated? to Category 1-“Goods?; and
   •   USD 4.080 million from Category 4-“Unallocated? to Category 2-“Consultants’
       Services and Training?

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry. The project’s quality at entry was satisfactory. For example:
• The design was simple and straight forward, even though the scope of the project in
terms of covering all the 83 regions of the country was ambitious.



                                            14
• The design was very focused on solving the existing problems in the treasury system,
and responding to specific needs like better control on budget expenditure.
• The project design took into account the sector issues as well as government
strategies.
• Project alternatives were considered in relation to scope of the program, design of the
Treasury system, implementation strategy and choice of lending instrument.
• The arrangement for procurement was for the FT to use an external agency,
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring (FER) which functioned as an intermediary body
between the Bank and the Beneficiary.
• The initial procurement planning was well done so there were very
limited procurement packages and application software (ASW) procurement was
separated from related hardware procurement. The hardware procurement was further
divided into separate packages in order to take advantage of the rapidly changing
technology, and falling prices for hardware over the relatively long implementation
period.

Soundness of background analysis. As part of project preparation, the sector background
was studied, main sector issues were analyzed in depth, and government strategies to deal
with these issues were also considered.

Lessons Learned from previous Bank-assisted projects. The Bank's experience with
similar projects demonstrated the need for: (i) a high level of commitment to project
objectives on the part of the borrower; (ii) well-defined objectives consistent with the
country's absorptive capacity; (iii) thorough preparation and accurate assessment of
needs; (iv) close monitoring of project preparation actions to be undertaken by the
borrower and provision of necessary TA; and (v) rigorous supervision to handle the
design, procurement and implementation challenges that these projects typically present.

The Bank's experience with the Treasury component in other countries showed that
borrowers' commitment and their extensive involvement in deciding the project design
and phasing (participatory approach), as well as extensive involvement of the Bank
Country Office in the process of preparation and supervision, are essential for the success
of the project

The project incorporated these lessons by: (i) focusing on areas to which the Government
was committed; (ii) building on existing Government efforts in these areas; (iii) providing
technical assistance to help the borrower implement the actions required for project
preparation and providing financing for skills required for project implementation, (iv)
anticipating intensive supervision requirements and extensively involving the country
office in Moscow in this process.

Risks and Risk Mitigation Measures. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) had
identified some risks and mitigation measures as deemed appropriate at that time were
taken during the preparation stage. Even though there were a few areas where risks were
relatively high/substantial, these risks were managed appropriately as indicated in the
PAD.


                                            15
Adequacy of participatory processes. The Government's program for development of the
treasury reforms included extensive dialogue with budget agencies at all levels and
training programs for both Treasury staff and end users of the enhanced system. The
institutional assessment of the Treasury reviewed the role of the treasury among other
major stakeholders. Consultations in the course of project preparation and related analytic
work had included Government agencies, both Ministry of Finance and line ministries,
the central bank, and also bodies outside the executive, such as the Budget Committee of
the State Duma and the Chamber of Accounts.

Adequacy of government commitment. The Government was very committed to the
project, as it realized the vital importance of a functioning Treasury to meet the needs of
financial administration in a market economy. It had set up its own targets for making the
Treasury operational: i.e., start performing basic functions in 2000 and become fully
operational in 2004.

The Government established a network of offices of the Federal Treasury and
rudimentary systems across the country. The Central office of the Federal Treasury was
established as a structural department of the MoF organization and had taken over the
budget execution functions formerly carried out by the MoF. The project built on the
work already performed by the borrower. The Government was committed to addressing
remaining systemic problems as part of the new project.

2.2 Implementation

There were no major issues during initial stages of the project implementation. After the
effectiveness of the project on October 2, 2002, substantial progress was made by
improving the institutional and legislative framework associated with the new TSA
system, and developing an interim Treasury system to support the TSA operations, until
2005. The functional design of the new Treasury system had been completed, and the
application software contract to develop the Federal Treasury Automation System
(FTAS) was awarded to Oracle in December 2005. There was a delay at the early stages
of the FTAS contract mainly due to technical difficulties. However, these were resolved
with intensified efforts of the FT and Supplier teams.

The Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in November 2008, and concluded that
most project performance indicators had achieved mid-term targets. Key performance
indicators, including the establishment of TSA, closure of SU accounts at commercial
banks, improvement of budget execution processes and revision of budget classification,
were completed before target dates.




                                            16
Factors which affected implementation

Positive:
• Strong commitment and dedication on the part of the government team contributed to
the success of the project. The project benefited from continuous support of the
leadership of the MOF and the FT who had a clear strategic vision and deep
understanding of the project objectives. The project was well resourced, continuity of the
core team was assured and resources were added when required.

• Continuity of a strong Project Management team in FT, combined with high level of
competency of FER staff and a very good cooperation between FT and FER were
important factors for the success of the project.

• Counterpart openness to accept external advice and expertise. The project benefited
from the advice from top international consultants on quality assurance and change
management. Services of individual consultants were used for networking system,
procurement, accounting reforms, methodologies, banking sector, and training. These
consultancies were mostly financed from federal budget.

• Availability of strong technical expertise on the Bank side and continuity of the Bank
team working on the project also contributed to the project success.

Negative:
(i) Adverse impact of extensive changes in legislative framework on FTAS
implementation.
• Legal changes introduced during the course of systems development resulted in
significant changes in the FTAS software. This led to additional cost and resulted in the
postponement of the pilot implementation. Introduction of such legal changes and the
requirements for immediate introduction of these in FTAS caused unpredictable delays in
project implementation. The reason cited for the change in FTAS roll-out plans was the
additional time needed to incorporate changes in the FTAS software to comply with
new/revised legal and regulatory framework governing the budgeting processes.
(ii) Procurement delays
• Due to lengthy procurement procedures, there were many delays in the
implementation of some of the project activities. For example, the selection of
consultants through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process for the
implementation of Component 1 activities took much longer than planned (about more
than a year in most cases). Also, the development of bidding documents for FTAS
application software design and implementation, its coordination and approval, including
development of detailed specifications, took 23 months. Likewise, the first stage of two-
stage international competitive bidding, including the analysis and revision of the
bidders’ technical solutions and related revision of the technical requirements for the
FTAS application software took about 14 months. The second phase of two-stage
international competitive bidding took another five months. However, the time taken for
processing the two stage ICB is not abnormal compared to similar projects.



                                           17
(iii) Extension of work on the FTAS ASW

• In light of changes in the budget legislation which occurred during the stage of pilot
implementation, the FT had to contract Oracle to rework the FTAS application software
to meet the requirements of regulatory and legal acts. This work took additional six
months, which caused a delay in the deadline for FTAS commissioning in the pilot sites.
• Several software deficiencies were detected during FTAS operation, which hampered
efficient functioning of the Federal Treasury. In particular, at the beginning of
commercial operation, these deficiencies caused incomplete or incorrect data
transmission to tax authorities and financial authorities within other budget jurisdictions.
The deficiencies were rectified by June 2010, which enabled FTAS roll-out in the
remaining offices of the FT.
• Data storage and processing specifics of the legacy systems were inadequate for fully-
automated data migration. Consequently, data migration required additional time, which
led to extension of the deadline for FTAS commissioning at the pilot sites from
September 2009 to January 2010.
• While the pilot regions used HP server equipment, the new equipment installed in 73
out of 83 roll-out regions was an IBM product. The incompatibility problems were sorted
out by Oracle-IBM joint efforts with active involvement of the Federal Treasury.
Resolving this serious factor caused a six-month extension of the deadline for FTAS roll-
out from January 2010 to July 2010.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. Simple indicators were developed at project preparation to monitor the
performance of the operation of MOF and FT. However, based on the recommendations
of the ECA Quality Control Unit, the PDO and Intermediate Outcome Indicators were
revised and new indicators were developed in June 2007 to make them more measurable.
MOF and FT had adequate methods for collecting data on these indicators. See Section
1.3 for the revised indicators.

M&E implementation. FT was regularly collecting data according to the indicators
developed as mentioned above. These data were closely monitored and the actual figures
were compared with the target values.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected from FT’s semi-annual reports of indicators
was evaluated and used for decision-making on certain activities. For example, the task
team collected regular updates on the status of deliverables, monitored reasons for delays
in meeting the deadlines on deliverables, and took appropriate actions to resolve these
issues.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard issues. N/A



                                            18
Fiduciary issues. The project complied with fiduciary covenants during implementation.
Internal control arrangements were in place, and adequate financial management system
and records were maintained.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase. Adequate transition arrangements for
continuing the future operation have been put in place by the government and FT. The
FTAS developed under the project has been completely mainstreamed right across
Russian Federation. All treasury units are using the new system for their day to day work,
and the old system has been completely phased out. On the technical side, all
recommendations for changes have been approved and are being used. FT, which has a
strong IT capacity, has outsourced the maintenance of the new system to contractors.
Further, there is continuity of staff in FER who are very knowledgeable about the project.

Follow-on project. The Bank is currently preparing a new project on Integrated Financial
Management Information System (e-Budget). The MoF/FT has requested the inclusion of a
large technical assistance component (about USD 40m) to support ongoing MoF e-Budget
project. The design and implementation of the e-Budget information and communication
technology (ICT) solutions, and establishment of infrastructure for the system, including
the budget portal will be funded from the federal budget, and these activities are outside the
scope of the new Project. The Bank is expected to support some of the activities
(improvement of methodology, training, monitoring and evaluation) identified in the
MoF’s broader e-Budget action plan, to complement the MoF’s ongoing efforts for
developing and implementing the key modules of the system. This project is scheduled to
be presented to the Bank’s Board by March 2013.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design, and implementation are still relevant, timely and appropriate to
the current needs of Russia’s public sector. The project is also consistent with the Bank's
Country Partnership Strategy 3 (CPS) for Russia. For example, during the CPS period of
2012-2016, the Bank is supporting Russia‘s efforts to: (i) increase growth and
diversification through better management of public finances; and (ii) improve
governance and transparency through more accountability and better service standards in
public administration, procurement, and financial management. For achieving these goals,
the ongoing and planned Bank-financed projects will enhance the further strengthening of
treasury functions and frameworks, and the promotion of program budgeting.




3
    Report No. 65115-RU, dated November 18, 2011




                                                   19
Further, the new project on e-budget requested by the government confirms the relevance
of the TDP’s objectives and results.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Satisfactory. The project was very successful in achieving its objectives. As shown in the
Table below, all the key performance indicators were fully achieved. New budget
execution procedures and systems introduced with the project support were critically
important for establishing an orderly, predictable and transparent budget execution
process supported by appropriate control mechanisms across the whole country.
Accountability of the Government for the use of public funds has improved dramatically
with the introduction of the treasury information system and new reporting tools linked to
it. Consolidation of the budget balances at the Treasury Single Account (TSA) allowed to
introduce effective cash management practices, increase predictability of cash release and
reduce the need for government borrowing. The surplus accumulated at the TSA was
used as an important source of liquidity injection during the 2009-2010 regional financial
crisis that allowed to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the Russian economy.
             Indicator                             Target                           Actual Value
PDO Indicators
1. Ensure conditions for effective    100% of the SUs in the country      Achieved. All SUs in country are
implementation of the budget          covered by centralized payment      now covered by centralized
through payment process               processing through Treasury by      payment processing through
centralization                        project end                         Treasury system
2. Timely presentation of fiscal      Budget reports presented for        Achieved. Budget reports are
accounts for external audit           external audit within 3 months of   presented for review to the
                                      close of fiscal year                Chamber of Accounts: by chief
                                                                          budget funds admin in 3 months
                                                                          (on April 1);by the MoF in 4
                                                                          months and 20 days (on May 20).
3. Training of adequate numbers       About 20,000 staff need to be       Achieved. Training activities
of financial and technical staff to   trained in and be able to operate   were completed satisfactorily.
operate new system                    new system at all oblasts and       Nearly 20000 end user staff
                                      rayons by project end.              trained so far. Around 1000 IT
                                                                          staff trained.350 staff trained in
                                                                          the operation and maintenance of
                                                                          ESS systems
Intermediate Outcome Indicators
1. Treasury ledger systems with       FTAS implemented at three pilot     Achieved. New FTAS system
required functionality                oblasts and associated rayons.      implemented in 3 pilot regions in
implemented at 3 pilot oblasts                                            live mode. Legacy system
and associated rayons by                                                  switched off.
December 2006
2. Treasury ledger systems with       New systems rolled out to all       Achieved. FTAS rollout was
required functionality rolled out     Oblasts and associated Rayons by    successfully completed in 83
to all                                project end. FTAS will be able to   regions on Sep 5, 2011
                                      record all stages of the
                                      expenditure transaction
3. Timely and reliable budget         The new Treasury system should      Achieved. All necessary reports
reports produced for MOF /            produce a complete set of           are
Treasury / Budget Agencies by         budgetary and fiscal reports.       presented through the new system
end of project                                                            in 83 regions.



                                                      20
4. Treasury single Account         TSA established at NBR; SU( in     Achieved. TSA established at
established at the NBR; SU bank    country) bank accounts closed      NBR; SU (in country) bank
accounts at commercial banks                                          accounts have been closed
closed
5. New management processes        Federal Treasury performing        Achieved. Treasury based
and expenditure controls for       cash execution of the federal,     expenditure management
budget execution in place and      regional and local budgets         processes are now operational
functioning by July 1, 2007.                                          across most of the Government
6. Revised budget classification   The new budget classification      Achieved. The new budget
system adopted and budget          system should be introduced from   classification system has been
prepared according to new          2005.                              introduced from 2005.
classification. First stage
revisions 2003; finalized 2005



The details of the project’s major outcomes and achievements are as follows:
(i) Federal Treasury Automated System

The key achievement of the project is establishment of the Federal Treasury Automated
System (FTAS), which became one of the biggest systems of this nature in the world.
The fact that FTAS became fully operational across the whole territory of Russia during
the lifetime of the project is a remarkable success of the project. Russian FT has about
56,000 employees working in 2175 offices (located at 83 regions). The total number of
concurrent FT users (internal) benefiting from FTAS modules is around 30,000. In
addition, there are about 330,000 spending unit users (external) accessing selected FTAS
functions (submitting payment requests, generating reports) through web portal solutions
developed in each region.

The main results associated with the introduction of FTAS are given below:

    • Because of the centralization of budgetary accounting, budgetary operations such
        as report acceptance, internal and cross-document monitoring and verification,
        preparation and adjustment of accounting reports, and data validity checks are
        consuming less time now. The capacity has also been strengthened to monitor the
        accuracy of account entries for transactions and their compliance with relevant
        regulations in real time.
    •   As the software product is updated at the Federal Treasury level, there is no more
        need to update it in branches and divisions. Risks regarding launching new
        versions are considerably reduced, and likewise, chances of committing errors by
        low-skilled personnel in branches is minimized.
    •   The status and location of a document can be checked at any time, and processing
        of operations has become much faster.
    •   Reliability of the storage and capacity for processing of data has been enhanced.
    •   Performance of the Federal Treasury's personnel and provision of high quality
        services to the Federal Treasury's clients have improved because of the
        centralized processes for information registration, storage and processing, new
        regulations and technological solutions.


                                                   21
   • Another achievement is the development of "paperless treasury offices". Under
       this concept, which was first demonstrated in the Vladimir region, all operations
       are mainly based on "digital signatures". All transactions under digital signatures
       are immediately processed and the system has the capacity to verify important
       data immediately. The main advantages of this concept are: (i) decrease in labor
       expenditures; and (ii) high level of data quality. It is estimated that so far more
       than three million digital signatures have been issued to individual staff members.

(ii) Federal Treasury Departmental Network (DN)
The launching of DN monitoring and management system would ensure efficient and
direct management of access to network nodes, their availability, speed of data exchange
with local agencies of the Federal Treasury, and also to quickly detect and remedy any
technical device malfunction.
The DN is providing the Federal Treasury with:
   •   Its own independent address space
   •   Secure and high-quality exchange of data and voice between Federal Treasury
       agencies
   •   Efficient and operational management of access to DN facilities and timely
       detection of any network malfunction
   •   Protection of data transferred over the network and isolation from the data flows
       of other clients of the communications service provider.

An environment has been created to ensure the operation of FTAS in real time and the
further development of the Federal Treasury's communications system.

DN equipment and channels have also facilitated the development of the
audio/videoconferencing system, which would enable audio/video conferences of up to
100 participants. The audio/videoconferencing system has led to reducing expenses for
visits, meetings and business trips, and provides opportunities for online training and
video seminars.
(iii) Information Security

   •   The protection system installed at remote facilities of the FT has been built on the
       basis of a unified approach and principles defined by the Ministry of Finance of
       the Russian Federation. In the long run, this would ensure integrity and
       compatibility of the information security measures applied and the overall
       manageability of the Federal Treasury's data protection system.
   •   The measures taken resulted in the setting up of efficient monitoring of the
       security level in Federal Treasury agencies, lasting protection of confidential and
       public information transmitted between all structural levels of local agencies of
       the Federal Treasury, and the establishment of electronic exchange of documents
       relevant in law among participants in the budget process.



                                            22
(iv) Design and Implementation of the Maintenance Management System for the
FTAS

The FTAS Maintenance Management System provides computerized functionality for the
following activities and processes of Federal Treasury IT specialists:

   •   monitoring and mitigation of emergency situations; user support
   •   change management process
   •   configuration management process
   •   issue management process
   •   service level management process.

(v) Other achievements include the following:

   •   KPI: The FT has developed a data warehouse (DW) application to monitor Key
       Performance Indicators (KPI). KPI extracts data from FTAS databases and other
       systems, and monitor a large number of central and local level budget
       performance indicators for decision support and planning needs. This application
       has been developed as an in-house DW solution by the IBS (FTAS system
       integrator) in 2009 (about 150 million Rubles for software development and
       initial warranty; and 30 million Rubles/year for annual maintenance and
       upgrades), and is in use since January 2010.

   •   GIS-GMP: The FT has developed another useful platform called the Government
       Information System of Government and Municipal Payments (GIS-GMP) to
       improve the Accounting System for Accruals and Actual Payments (ASAAP).
       New system has been developed in 2011, as the new accounting system of
       accruals and actual payments of state taxes, cash payments (penalties), and duties
       made by physical and legal entities.

   •   Staff Performance Monitoring: The FT has developed another application to
       monitor the performance of their staff in operations. This system records all
       transaction processing times for various processes, and report generation speeds.
       Results of daily operations are monitored by the managers and quality of services
       are measured compared to predefined standard processing times. This application
       is a useful tool to monitor the performance of staff and improve operational
       efficiency. The system is fully operational since 2011.
   •   Procurement Portal: The FT is also operating the procurement portal which is
       used to register all suppliers and contracts (with a contract value above 100,000
       Rubles). Each signed contract is registered in this platform within three days after
       the contract signature date. The contract details and the payment schedules are
       transferred to FTAS to create unique multi-year commitments, linked with
       relevant budget resources.




                                            23
3.3 Efficiency

Implementation of the project was efficient 4. All the planned activities were completed
within their budgets. The FT saved about $60-70m during project implementation due to
competitive prices obtained in large ICB contracts (mainly for FTAS Application
Software and main servers). As a result of these savings, additional hardware that was
originally proposed to be part of the APL-2 (and was later taken over as Government
contribution) was procured to provide broader access to FTAS. Also, the MoF utilized
some of these savings to carry out additional consulting assignments to advance the
overall PFM reform agenda, as a part of Component 1 activities, and to fund the
amendments to ICB contracts.

Even though the amount of Government investment associated with the project exceeded
the initial estimates, the project is assessed as highly cost-effective. The increase in
Government funding for the project compared to the plans was not the consequence of
the cost overruns, but was provided, based on positive results achieved, to cover
additional activities, including network capacity increases, expansion and additional
engineering systems. These additional investments enhanced the quality and
sustainability of results achieved under the project.

 Also, the project generated significant economic and financial benefits summarized
below.

(i) With the implementation of the Single Treasury Account system under the project,
FT’s liquidity management has considerably improved. With effect from 2008, on a daily
basis FT is in a strong position to lend its unallocated funds as short-term credits to
commercial banks with interest. The following Table shows revenues generated from
such allocations from 2008 till the first half of 2012.
                                            Table 1.

                                                                              2012 (until
    Year                   2008          2009          2010        2011
                                                                              June 2012)
Volume of revenues       16 224,60 18 865,40         4 861,20 19 620,60         11 803,60
from allocation
(billion Rubles)

With the interest amount received from commercial banks, introduction of TSA has
already generated more revenue than the project loan amount.




4
 As part of preparation of the project completion report, the Federal Treasury has undertaken a
very comprehensive analysis of the project efficiency. Full results of this analysis and the
methodology used are presented in the FT final project completion report.



                                                24
(ii) After moving to the e-filing system, FT is saving on paper, printing cartridges, and
fuel for transporting these materials. For example, it is estimated that in 2011 FT saved
more than 2 billion Rubles by not using them.

(iii) Since 2008 FT has also saved substantial amounts on long distance calls between the
Federal FT and its regional offices because of the voice over IP communication facility
developed under the project. For example, FT could save about 263 million Rubles in
long distance calls. Likewise, the need for FT staff for physically going to regional
offices has been minimized because of the video conferencing facility established
between the Federal and regional FT offices.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the discussion given in Sections 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated
as Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts. The project did not have a direct impact on poverty amelioration.
However, the project has enabled the government to have full control on its financial
resources and allocate resources appropriately according to government policies. This
enabled better utilization of government resources and indirectly helped alleviate poverty.
For example, the project improved the capacity of FT to provide money to Spending
Units for making social benefit payments in time.

Gender Aspects. N/A

Social Development: N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact. In particular, it
contributed to a major paradigm shift in the way the Government handled budget
execution and a transition to Treasury centric operations from a primarily spending unit
based operation. In the course of the project implementation, the Federal Treasury has
undergone major institutional transformation and has started to operate as a service
provider driven by performance-based principles.

For details, see Section 3.2


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project has produced multiple additional positive outcomes, as follows:



                                            25
   •   Evolution of software platform and elimination of off-line connection through
       development of web portal for submission of data to FTAS has provided
       flexibility to budget recipients and eliminated the need for keeping specialized
       software and hardware. FT could eliminate expenses on maintenance of such
       specialized software

   •   Legally binding document flow with all FT clients has been developed.
       Establishment of the authorization center (one of the largest in Europe) to support
       digital signatures provided to all clients for free. Infrastructure is used for similar
       purposes in other Government initiatives (public procurement portal,
       municipalities portal)

   •   Because the new treasury system was already operational during Russia’s
       financial crisis in 2009-2010, FT was able to support liquidity of the banking
       system through deposits of TSA balances in commercial banks

   •   Because of the improved quality of budget management, FT’s capacity has been
       strengthened to provide timely, comprehensive and true information required for
       other government and control authorities responsible for eliminating corruption.
       Implementation of the public procurement portal in FT provides full public access
       to procurement and contract data of all budget entities which would serve as a
       basis for civil control

   •   Improved quality of data and its presentation has made it feasible for the MOF,
       Government and State Duma (Parliament) to use various FT systems as a tool for
       decision making.

   •   Communication system developed under the project for the information system is
       also serving as a basis for internal telephone and video network, eliminating long-
       distance calls and allowing possibility for better communication of various FT
       bodies

   •   First official translation of International Public Sector Accounting Standards
       (IPSAS) into Russian will assist many countries in their efforts to use IPSAS

   •   Project management experience and technical infrastructure gained by FT staff
       allow the agency to be used by the Government for many new initiatives (FT is
       the operator of the largest public portals in the country)

   •   FT’s successful experience in implementing the project has made it a leader
       among the treasuries of the ECA region and generated a lot of interest from other
       countries to learn from FT experience.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Federal Treasury organized a number of international level events to share the results of
TDP implementation. The feedback from the events confirms that results achieved under


                                             26
thr project are of great interest to peers from other countries and that successful
implementation of the project has made the Federal Treasury a leading reformer among
the treasuries of ECA region. More details on the results of the mentioned events can be
found in annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Ratings: Negligible to Low

The ICR team considers that the risk to development outcome is negligible to low
because all the achievements of the project are highly sustainable. In particular, FTAS is
fully operational and is the only financial management information system used by all the
treasury offices and spending units to perform expenditures financed from the public
budget across the whole country.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the
adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial,
economic, and institutional, including procurement and financial management. A
number of alternatives were considered for the project design. In addition, major risk
factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in the financial sector were
considered and incorporated into the project design.

Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided
the technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and a good project design.
The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount to
ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the CAS
and government priorities in the sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good
working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately and
intensively supervised, and closely monitored. The task team prepared Aide-Memoires
regularly and alerted the government and the FT to problems with project execution and
facilitated remedies in a timely manner in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the project
both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation.




                                           27
The Bank team was able to provide necessary advice and support during the
implementation period. When required, monitoring visits were complemented with
periodic monitoring VCs. The Bank’s procurement and financial management staff
worked with the FT and FER staff to explain the rules and procedures to be applied
during project implementation, with regard to procurement of goods and works, and
selection of consultants, accounts and audits, based on the Loan Agreement. The task
team also monitored safeguard and fiduciary compliances.

The task team carried out a Mid-Term Review in November 2008. The MTR team had
identified several issues that were critical at that stage of project implementation. Based
on the recommendations of the MTR, measures were taken to ensure improvement in
implementation performance.
One important aspect of the Bank's performance and contribution was availability of strong
technical expertise on the Bank side and continuity of the Task Team, including the Task
Team Leader (TTL) and other key specialists during most of the project period. This
continuity engendered consistency, depth and follow-up in the dialogue with the government
and provided expertise to help the government analyze issues and implement actions as they
emerged during supervision. The counterparts have demonstrated high respect for the Bank
project team and noted a constructive style of the Bank TTL during the ICR interviews.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above,
overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

As mentioned in Section 2.1, the government had shown its commitment to the objectives
of the project at the time of project preparation. The government was fully aware of the
benefits of the project and consistently maintained its commitment throughout the
implementation. The government prepared an action plan, including revised FTAS roll-
out plan, procurement plan and disbursement estimate, acceptable to the Bank, in order to
complete the project. The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project
team on a continual basis, and cooperated fully with the task team.

Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability
and follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were
incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. The project
did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems, as the GOR took timely corrective
measures and made appropriate budget provisions.




                                            28
Government readiness to share project experience and results with colleagues from other
countries is also commendable (see Annex 6 for details on international events
organized).


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The FT’s strong project management team was able to ensure (with assistance of their
consultants) that the requirements for the activities were quite detailed and any updates
were provided during the course of implementation.

The fiduciary functions including procurement, FM and disbursement were delegated by
the Federal Treasury to the FER. The FER was very effective in carrying out all aspects
of project management, such as financial management, procurement arrangements,
reporting activities, and disbursements:

Financial Management Review. The project was in compliance with the financial
management legal covenants. The financial management system including accounting,
internal controls and reporting was adequate and satisfactory to the Bank. Quarterly
FMRs were submitted on time and were acceptable to the Bank.

Procurement Arrangements. FER did procurement in full compliance with the Bank’s
procurement rules and requirements. Overwhelming majority of contracts was subject to
prior review which always showed high quality of procurement documents and observing
of all applicable procedures. For this reason post reviews were not conducted by the Bank.

Procurement package for ASW (ICB-1) was prepared with very well balanced
qualifications requirements and so the bids were received from the companies (Oracle
and SAP) with high technical and financial capacity in order to undertake such a huge
task. The procurement packages were almost only ICB type (Goods procurement) and
therefore there were substantial savings in the project budget. The FT with help of FER
also managed the ASW contract (with Oracle) very well which is also one of the main
success factors.

Reporting Arrangements. The FER submitted all required quarterly and annual reports in
a timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on
how the project was progressing covering all project activities. The status of
performance indicators were incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable
input to Bank supervision mission reports.




                                            29
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

In light of the Government and FT performance as discussed above, the overall
performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Factors for the success of a project

• Client ownership and strong strategic leadership on the beneficiary side are key to
success of institutional development projects. Although the quality of leadership is
normally not under the Bank control, it is worth investing into formulation of strategic
vision at the start of the project preparation. This may require additional preparation time,
but pays back during the implementation.

• Availability of specialized IT expertise within the Bank project team is critically
important to assure the quality of design and supervision of the projects that support
development of complex IT systems.

• Continuity of the core team working on the project, both from the Bank side and the
government side, is very important for the success of a project. Frequent changes in the
core team would create disruption, lack of continuity and ownership, and different
approaches to supervision. On the other hand, the continuity of the core team members will
engender consistency, depth and follow-up in the dialogue with the government and provided
expertise to help the government analyze issues and implement actions as they emerged
during supervision.


Project Design:

• While designing the project, wider involvement of counterparts involved in
management of public finances should be ensured in order to explore various available
options for a good project. Even if the final design is expected to be focused on a
particular function or stage of the budget process, it is important to start the design with
assessing the big picture and analyze the whole spectrum of existing issues. It is very
important to take time to discuss with the client and understand various budgetary and
treasury issues, their needs and come up with potential solutions to resolve these issues.
Time and efforts invested in such discussion contribute to development of clear strategic
vision of the project objectives and expected benefits on the counterpart side, which are
critically important for successful project implementation.

• It is essential to pay close attention at the design stage to the political economy
context of the country. In particular, it is important to understand the prospects for
decentralization vis-à-vis centralization of the public finance management functions, to
assure that the treasury model reflects the realities of the country context.



                                             30
• Simple design and focus on the core functionality of the treasury system are highly
appropriate for initial stage of implementation of public financial management
information systems (FMIS). As the experience of the Russia TDP confirms, once
sufficient experience with the core functionality is developed, the interest to expand the
functionality of the system and move towards a broader integrated FMIS develops
naturally.

Implementation:
• The duration of five years for the implementation of a project supporting such
complex information system as FTAS is too short and unrealistic and in fact might
negatively influence the results. For example, almost all contracts in the second half of
the project were usually signed with unrealistic implementation schedule due to the
project’s closing date (which was anyway extended but unnecessary constraints were
applied before that).

• Frequent changes in legislation will adversely affect the momentum of implementation of
any project that supports automation of procedures derived from that legislation. It is
important that stakeholders entitled for legislative initiative are informed of the implications
and an orderly process for initiating legislative changes is adopted (e.g., on an annual basis).
It is also important to have an internal process in place that allows sufficient time for
introducing respective changes in the treasury system

• While designing software, MOF/FT should take time to get the technical
specifications correctly, so that unnecessary delays and cost escalations can be avoided.

Procurement:
• For effective procurement process, it is important to have (i) senior management support,
(ii) necessary and competent resources (on both sides) in order to prepare and maintain
requirements and managing the project and contracts, (iii) proper procurement packaging and
planning (not too many packages, mostly ICB), and (iv) well balanced qualifications
requirements for each procurement package.

• Very close monitoring of procurement process by the project team and quick reaction to
each potential problem or bottleneck with finding appropriate and mutually acceptable
solution, will work strongly for the smooth implementation of the project and its overall
success.

Sector-specific:
• The benefits of the treasury system can only be fully realized if the system has
comprehensive coverage and there are no exceptions in its use. It is therefore essential
that no payments can be made outside the treasury system once it is launched, and that no
parallel (legacy) systems are maintained. All transactions should be checked in ex-ante
mode and post transactions should be avoided.




                                              31
• It might make a positive difference for the project outcomes to allow different sizes of
local companies to engage in the project. At the same time, it is useful to bring in
international advisors who have experience in similar projects in other countries.

For more details on lessons learned from the beneficiary prospective, see Annex 7 (Summary
of Borrower's ICR).


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

No issues were raised by the Borrower (See Annex 7 for Borrower comments on the draft
ICR).


(b) Cofinanciers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NA




                                           32
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

  (a)        Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

  (Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)

                                                                           Actual,                  Percentage of
                                        Appraisal Estimate
           Components                                              as of December 20, 2012           Appraisal 6
                                          (US$ million) 5
                                                                         (US$ million)
Component 1. Consulting                          30.30                       152.95                     505
services
Component 2 - Equipment and                     359.05                       804.04                     224
Software
Component 3 – Training                           12.46                        12.33                      99

Component 4 - Incremental                        6.00                         5.15                       86
Operating Expenses
             Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                           6.79                         0.00
Price Contingencies                             27.10                         0.00
                                               441.70                       974.46                     221
             Total Project Costs                                                                     (150) 8
                                               (663) 7
Project Preparation Facility
(PDL - IBRD Loan 3844 RU,
                                                                              1.11
TF-025812, Government
Funds )
Front-end fee (IBRD only)                           2.31                      2.31
   Total Financing Required                    444.01                       977.88                     220




  5
    Appraisal estimates are taken from SAP and relate to the 1st stage of the APL only. Total indicative
  estimate for the whole APL in the PAD was US$663 million, and this became the total revised project cost
  estimate after the cancellation of the 2d stage of the APL.

  6
   The comparison of the actual to the total appraisal cost of the full APL would be more accurate in this
  case. However, the appraisal estimates by component are available only for the 1st stage of the APL.

  7
      Revised total project estimate after cancellation of the 2nd stage of the APL.

  8
      Percentage to the total revised project cost estimate after the cancellation of the 2nd stage of the APL.




                                                           33
(b)       Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)


                                                                        Actual
                                              Appraisal
     Source of         Type of                                     (as of December       Percentage of
                                              Estimate
      Funds           Financing                                        20, 2012,          Appraisal
                                            (US$ million) 9
                                                                     US$ million)
[Government]                                        263                 748 10             284.4
[IBRD/IDA]                                          231                  229                99.1
[Donor A]         [WB-administered                                        0.5
                  TF 025812]
[Donor B]         [Parallel financing                                    0.5
                  – PDL IBRD Loan
                  3844 RU]
[Donor C]         [Parallel financing                                    0.1
                  – Government
                  funds for project
                  preparation]




9
  Appraisal estimates were taken from SAP and relate to the 1st stage of the APL only. Total appraisal
estimate of IBRD lending for the whole APL was USD400 mln. Revised government contribution estimate
at the moment of cancellation of the 2nd stage of the APL was US$432 mln.

10
   Additional Government funding was provided to cover additional activities, including network capacity
increases, expansion and additional engineering systems. These additional investments enhanced the
quality and sustainability of results achieved under the project.



                                                   34
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Consulting services

The project activities included in the first component contributed to the following main
   aspects:
       • Impovement of national accounting standards
       • Support of the budget reform
       • Training and capacity building
       Several consultancy services (QCBS-1/1, 1/2, 3, 4, and 7) supported the initiation
       of activities for the development of five draft Russian public sector accounting
       standards benefiting from a broader gap analysis performed by comparing
       national accounting system with International Public Sector Accounting Standards
       (IPSAS). Additionally, 31 IPSAS 2010 standards were translated into Russian,
       and this translation was approved by the IFAC as the latest official translation into
       Russian. Appropriate accounting rules modernization activities also supported the
       autonomous budget agencies reform.
       General advisory support for the budget reform (mapping the administrative
       segment of the budget classification to GFS 2001 structure, transition to program
       based budgeting in 2014, analyzing the international experience of the countries
       on program based budgeting, setting new enhanced financing procedures for
       reformed autonomous budget agencies, independent review of e-Budget plans and
       general functional system description, and synchronization of the reporting
       standards and budget classification) was provided through QCBS-5, 6, 19, 20, and
       22, CQS-10.
       Training on the new budget code, and accounting/reporting was provided through
       QCBS-8 and 9 packages.

Component 2 - Equipment and Software

       Key activities under the second component include:
       • the development of FTAS application software, and the supply and
          installation of related ICT infrastructure; and
       • the establishment of the departmental transport (infrastructure) network
          (DTN) and engineering support systems for IT facilities (ESS) at the territorial
          FT units (funded from the FT budget).
       The Integrator selected on a competitive basis and funded from the FT budget was
       responsible for the development of system design and the requirements for the
       works and goods to be procured and for the system integration as part of the
       FTAS development process.
       The design/testing and rollout phases of the FTAS were successfully completed in
       September 2011 (through ICB-1). The system was fully operational to support
       countrywide operations (in 83 regions) starting from January 2012. The ICT


                                            35
      infrastructure (servers, field hardware and network equipment) was established
      through other project activities (ICB-3, 4, 5, and 6).
      The Departmental Transport Network (DTN) has been established in 2010. The
      FT has signed a service contract with a competitively selected new
      communication service provider by the end of 2011. This has resulted in a
      reduction of about 30% in annual service charges (530 million Rubles, instead of
      800 million). The installation of Engineering Support Systems (ESS) has also
      been completed in 2010, using the FT budget funds.
      Due to substantial savings in large International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
      packages, the FT was able to initiate several other activities to expand the scope
      and functionality of the FTAS ICT infrastructure. Several additional ICB
      packages were completed to establish an interregional operational center, to
      install hardware and equipment for remote document flow system in the FT
      territorial offices, and to upgrade servers for the expansion of FTAS hardware and
      software (ICB-7, 8, 9, 10).
      The FT is monitoring the operational status of all ICT infrastructure through the
      Operational Control System (OCS) and the performance of regional servers
      appear to be satisfactory so far, with high reliability rates (34 incidents have been
      reported since early 2010, and the serious system failure rate is around 0.1% so
      far).
Component 3 – Training
      This component supported the functional and technical training and study tours
      for the MoF and FT staff to strengthen the capacity. Training in the areas of
      Budget code execution as well as the budgetary accounting and reporting were
      completed through QCBS-8 and 9. Training of the FT functional specialists on
      budget and accounting methodology was completed in Q3 2011 (QCBS-11).
      Technical Training of functional specialists in basic computer skills and IT
      training of the FT specialists were completed in 2009 (QCBS-10). Training of the
      FT specialists on informational security was completed in Q2 2012 (QCBS-12).
      Study tours were organized to learn more about the specific aspects of budget
      reforms and FMIS implementation in advanced economies (COS-4, 5, 6, and 7).

Component 4 - Incremental Operating Expenses
      The project implementation arrangements were complied with, and the changes
      introduced in the FT organizational structure starting from 2005 resulted in
      improvements in project management, and ensured the sustainability of the
      project.
      Among others (as reported in the mid-term review report prepared in November
      2008), the Departmental Programs Office (established through the FT’s Order No.
      42 of 9 March 2005) contributed substantially to the preparation and
      implementation of project activities, in collaboration with the Project
      Implementation Unit (FER), as a good practice example.



                                           36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

See Section 3.3




                                      37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
             Names                       Title                Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Allister Moon              Task Team Leader (until 2001)     ECSPE
                           Task Team Leader (from 2002 and
Ali Hashim                                                   ECSPE
                           till Dec 2004)
                           Senior Public Sector Management
Neil Parison                                                 ECSPE
                           Specialist
Piuyush Desai              Consultant                         OCS
Jonathan David Pavluk      Senior Counsel
                           Senior Financial Management
Clifford S. Isaak
                           Specialist
Ljudmilla V. Poznanskaya   Senior Projects Officer           ECSPE
                           Senior Financial Management
Galina S. Kuznetsova                                         ECSO3
                           Specialist
Karl Skansing              Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSPE
Naushad Khan               Senior Procurement Specialist
Ireneusz M. Smolewski      Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSO2
Alexander Balakov          Procurement Specialist
David Freese               Disbursement Officer
Anna Jouravleva            Financial Management Officer
Tatyana Frolova            Disbursement Officer
Douglas Summerfield        Operations Officer
Lilian Canamaso            Program Assistant                 ECSPE
Dolly Teju                 Program Assistant                 ECSPE
Elena Doborolyubova        Team Assistant                    ECCU1

Supervision/ICR
                           Senior Public Sector Specialist
Cem Dener                                                    PRMPS
                           (TTL since Dec 2004)
Ali Hashim                 Consultant (TTL until Dec 2004)   SARFM
                           Senior Financial Management
Galina S. Kuznetsova                                         ECSO3
                           Specialist
Ljudmilla V. Poznanskaya   Senior Projects Officer           ECSF2
Jesus Renzoli              Consultant                        ECSO2
Alexander Rukavishnikov    Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSO2
Karl Skansing              Consultant                        AFTSE
Ireneusz M. Smolewski      Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSO2
                           Senior Financial Management
Rajeev Kumar Swami                                           ECSO3
                           Specialist
 Virginia S. Yates         Program Assistant                 ECSP4
Irina Rostovtseva          Team Assistant                    ECCU1


                                          38
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                               101.17
  FY00                                                               112.46
  FY01                                                               238.69
  FY02                                                               239.09
                          Total:                                     691.41
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                               129.28
  FY04                                                               119.36
  FY05                                                               112.13
  FY06                                                               115.97
  FY07                                                               118.35
  FY08                                                               128.69
 FY09                                                                 93.04
 FY10                                                                146.90
 FY11                                                                 97.02
 FY12                                                                68.93
 FY13                                                                47.83
                          Total:                                    1177.60




                                       39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

To share project results, the MoF/FT hosted several international level events. A very
successful workshop took place in Kazan in March 2012. The delegations from 13 Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economies benefited from the presentations and
discussions on the status and trends in Treasury and Financial Management Information
System (FMIS) development, as well as cash management practices (24 external
participants and 21 officials from the Russian Federation).

Another highly successful event took place at the end of June 2012 in Moscow and
Vladimir. FT hosted a plenary meeting of PEMPAL Treasury Community of Practice that
gathered around 80 representatives of 19 ECA countries. Presentation of TDP results and
live demonstration of FTAS were key items on the agenda of the meeting. The event
summary report is included further in this annex. Full documentation on the event is
available at PEMPAL web site www.pempal.org.




                                          41
           Strategies for Treasury Modernization
__________________________________________________
Moscow – Vladimir, Russian Federation

                                                           In accordance with the Action Plan
                                                           for the period of 2012-2014,
                                                           Treasury Community of Practice
                                                           (TCOP) of PEMPAL conducted on
                                                           June 25-27, 2012, a three-day
                                                           plenary workshop “Strategies for
                                                           Treasury Modernization?. Heads
                                                           and specialists from treasuries of
                                                           19 PEMPAL Treasury Community
                                                           of Practice (TCOP) member
                                                           countries,      as      well       as
                                                           representatives of the treasury of
                                                           Indonesia took part in the
                                                           workshop that was held in Moscow
                                                           and     Vladimir,    the     Russian
Federation. Both in terms of the number of participating countries, and in terms of the level of
the participants, the Moscow workshop turned out to be one of the most representative in the
history of the Treasury Community.

The main goal of the workshop was to provide to treasury specialists from the TCOP member
countries with an opportunity to exchange experience in the field of implementing reforms in
treasury systems. The workshop was meant to satisfy numerous requests from the TCOP
members to get familiar with experience of the Russian Federation in development of the
treasury system. The objective of the workshop was also to contribute to broader application
of strategic approaches at later stages of reforms of treasuries in TCOP member countries.

The first day of the workshop was held in the building of the Federal Treasury of Russia. The
participants were welcomed by the Deputy Minister of Finance of the Russian Federation,
Ms. Tatyana Nesterenko. In accordance with the program, this day was allocated for getting
familiar with experience 11 of the Russian Federation in reforming and modernizing the treasury
system and other accompanying reforms.




11
     All presentations shown at the workshop are available on the web-site of the PEMPAL Program.




                                                       42
                                                       The Treasury of the Russian
                                                       Federation       elaborated      and
                                                       implements a mid-term strategy on
                                                       modernization of the treasury
                                                       system of the country. The contents
                                                       of the strategy and also approaches
                                                       to its development, implementation
                                                       and monitoring were of special
                                                       interest for participating countries,
                                                       many of which are at the stage of
                                                       identifying priorities for further
                                                       development of their national
treasury systems. The presentation of the Head of the Federal Treasury of Russia, Mr.
Roman Artyukhin on the strategy of development of the treasury of Russia and experience of
implementing it opened the Moscow part of the workshop program.

One of important steps on improvement of the treasury system of Russia was the Project on
modernization of the Treasury, which was completed in June 2012 and was implemented with
support of the World Bank. In the framework of the Project one of the largest treasury
information systems in the world was implemented. The Project is considered to be one of the




                                            43
most successful projects of such kind supported by the World Bank in the countries of Europe
and Central Asia. Results of implementation of this project were presented to the participants
by the Deputy Head of the Federal Treasury of Russia, Mr. Sergey Guralnikov. Such
projects are implemented with support of the World Bank also in a number of countries that are
members of the Treasury Community of Practice, and that fact further enhanced interest of the
participants to that presentation.

Upon requests from the members of the Treasury Community of Practice, presentation of
experience of the Russian Federation related to conversion to the accrual method in accounting
and reporting in the public sector was included in the agenda of the workshop, the topic was
presented by Ms. Svetlana Sivets, the Deputy Director of the Budgetary Policy and
Methodology Department of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation. Russia is
one of the few countries that carried out conversion to application of the accrual method in
accounting in the public sector. Experience and lessons learned in the course of that
conversion were especially interesting for the members of the Treasury Community of
Practice.




                                             44
In conclusion of the first working day the participants of the workshop discussed in four small
groups experience presented by their colleagues from the Treasury of Russia. The main goal
of these discussions was identification by representatives of the participating countries of
successful, in their opinion, aspects of modernization of the treasury of the Russian Federation
and accompanying reforms, which could be implemented in their respective countries. The
Treasury of Russia delegated for participation in work of small groups top executives,
including the Head and his several deputies, as well as leading specialists in the relevant fields.
As it was expected, discussions were very lively and helped to identify numerous aspects of the
Russian experience that could be applied in other countries. Reports on work in small groups
were presented at the beginning of the second working day, after the workshop moved to
Vladimir Oblast. Presentations were made by Ms. Nataliia Sushko (Ukraine), Ms. Mladenka
Karacic (Croatia), and Ms. Vugar Abdullayev (Azerbaijan) and by Ms. Anila Cili (Albania).

Russia accumulated unique experience in the process of implementation of the project of
modernization of the treasury and the new information system. Aspects of that experience
that aroused interest from colleagues, included:

    Elements of the mechanism of implementation of the project (ensuring legislative
     support; organization of the working process; organization of project teams;
     determination of final goals and optimization of business-processes; the approach to
     cost-benefit analysis),

    Functional and method-
     logical changes in activities
     of the treasury supported by
     the information system
     (taking into consideration of
     specifics of the federal
     state; coverage of state
     extra-budgetary        funds;
     consolidation of reporting;
     integration of international
     standards; procedure for
     making       payments       to
     physical persons; application of business credit cards; determination of legal
     responsibility of a supplier and a customer in a budgetary process);

    And also various technical characteristics of the information system and the process of
     its implementation (an integrated approach; identification of internal and external users
     of the system; a data storage; a personal office of a spending unit in the portal system,


                                                45
       elaboration of separate software for delivery of documents to the information system;
       using electronic digital signature; complete refusal from paper-based technologies).

As it was expected, serious interest was generated by the experience of Russia in
reforming accounting and reporting in the public sector.

    When discussing the experience related to conversion to the accrual method,
     participants were interested in the analytical approach to justification of the need in
     using the accrual method, in attention paid to formulation of goals and objectives that
     would be clear to non-specialists (strengthening of sustainability, transparency and
     accountability, enhancement of the role of the state in public finance management); and
     also sequence of the conversion (identification of subjects and objects of accounting;
     determination, standardization of principles and rules for accounting and reporting,
     unification of documents and processes; methodological support for the reform in on-
     line mode)

    Intense interest was generated by the work that is performed in connection with
     preparation to implementation of international accounting standards (an official
     publication of IPSAS in Russian; elaborated methodological solutions for certain
     technically complicated issues (for example, consolidation of reporting); experience of
     integration of international standards)

    In addition, a number of other interesting solutions in the field of accounting and
     reporting in the public sector also attracted attention (approach to integration of the
     budget classification and the chart of accounts; use of elements of the accrual method
     while planning the revenue part of the budget and maintenance by revenue
     administrators of accounting using the accrual method; standardization of submission
     of reporting for public institutions and mandatory level of aggregation set by the
     Ministry of Finance; a possibility of centralization of accounting with introduction in
     the future of an integrated information system; provision of technical services by the
     treasury in connection with accounting and payroll management (replication of the
     system of the process of transfer of data, migration of the data base, testing of the
     system, process of parallel work in two systems)).

The participants also noted useful aspects of the Russian experience in the sphere of cash
flow management (liquidity management) (withdrawal of funds from commercial banks,
consolidation of funds in the TSA (treasury single account); efficient cash balance
management; tender-based placement of funds at stock exchanges; elaboration of software for
cash flow management; availability of interdepartmental committee for cash planning).




                                            46
In addition, the participants got interested in some other elements of reforms carried out by the
Russian Federation, including a single portal for pubic procurements (though its integration
with the treasury system is still pending); and also elements of the results-based system of
material incentives applied by the treasury.

                                    Discussions of the major topic of Day Two of the
                                    workshop were launched by the presentation of the World
                                    Bank consultant, Mr. Ali Hashim, “Treasury Reference
                                    Model. Key Treasury Reform Priorities, Implementation
                                    Pointers?. Publication “Treasury Reference Model?, a co-
                                    author of which Mr. Hashim is, served as a basis for
                                    elaboration of strategic documents and technical
                                    documentation related to reforming a whole range of
                                    treasury systems in the countries of the region with support
                                    of the World Bank and other international organizations.
                                    That work contains answers to many questions arising in
                                    the course of elaboration and implementation of strategic
                                    approaches to reforming activities of the treasury.

In continuation of the topic of the day, Ms. Elena Nikulina, the Head of the PEMPAL
program, presented to the participants of the workshop results of the topical survey conducted
among participating countries in the course of preparation of the workshop. The survey
showed that all 17 countries that took part in the survey see the need to develop and improve
functions of the treasury. In 12 countries that responded priorities of further treasury reforms
were officially identified. In most cases that was done by means of strategic documents of
broader coverage. Bulgaria, Russia and Tajikistan have strategic documents elaborated
specially for the needs of the treasury. Functions that require further development in most
countries are related to cash flow (liquidity) management, accounting and reporting, payment
management and mechanisms of treasury control. In all countries information systems require
further development. Organization of personnel training is also a pressing need for the vast
majority of treasuries of TCOP member countries. The countries that have working strategic
documents expressed willingness to provide them for the electronic library of PEMPAL; it
could become practical assistance for colleagues in those countries, where elaboration of such
documents is still in process.

The further program of work included presentation of experience of certain countries in the
field of implementation of strategies of treasury system reforms. Experience of France
traditionally arouses special interest of the members of the Treasury Community of Practice. A
representative of the Ministry of Finance of France (Mr. Jean-Francois Delagnes) was
invited to participate in the program by the hosts of the workshop, the Treasury of Russia.
Experience of Tajikistan (Mr. Rustam Boboev) was chosen to be presented since that country


                                               47
has quite recently elaborated a very interesting strategic plan for modernization of the national
treasury in the framework of the project implemented with support of the World Bank.
Representatives of Croatia (Ms. Mladenka Karacic) and of Macedonia (Ms. Biljana
Chiplakoska) for the first time spoke at the TCOP workshop, and that was the first opportunity
for TCOP members to get familiar with experience of those countries in the field of reforming
national treasuries.

                                                       In conclusion of the work of the second
                                                       day of the workshop there were lively
                                                       discussions in four small groups
                                                       devoted to the topics of the day.
                                                       Participants   of     the   discussions
                                                       examined various questions that arise
                                                       in the course of elaboration and
                                                       implementation of strategic approaches
                                                       to reforming treasury systems,
                                                       including external conditions and
                                                       restrictions       that        influence
implementation of reforms in the treasury and their connection with broader reforms of public
governance, and also possibilities to centralize accounting and reporting, including external
conditions and restrictions that influence implementation of reforms in treasuries and their
connection with broader reforms of public governance, as well as possibilities to centralize
accounting and reporting that appear because of introduction of modern information systems.
Reports on that series of discussions were presented at the end of the workshop by Mr.
Alexander Florescu (Romania), Ms. Mladenka Karacic (Croatia), Ms. Zaifun Yernazanova
(Kazakhstan) and Mr. Alexander Demidov (Russian Federation).

The participants of discussions agreed that the treasury reform is an integral part of the public
finance management reform. Numerous externalities and limitations influence implementation
of reforms in the treasury; many of them are directly related to the progress in implementing
broader reforms of public governance. Various examples of such externalities were given,
including decisions on freezing or reduction of the number of civil servants; budgetary
limitation; lack of a mechanism for material incentives because of lack of flexibility of the
payroll system; changes in delineation of authorities between administrative levels; changes in
mechanisms of sector financing (education); introduction of information systems and solutions
on the state level (electronic government); conversion to result-oriented governing methods;
frequently changing legislation.

Most part of external factors are beyond direct control of treasuries, however, it is important to
take them into consideration while analyzing forecasted risks at the stage of preparation of the
treasury reform, and one has to adjust to them in the course of the reform implementation. It is


                                               48
also possible to resolve some problems related to external restrictions in the framework of
implementation of the very treasury reform (an example is enhancement of efficiency of
operation of the treasury and reorientation of the part of personnel at the expense of
introduction of new information technologies).
The participants also agreed that with introduction of modern information systems for
management of public finance, a possibility appears to centralize accounting and reporting. It
was noted that the centralized approach has a number of advantages, including enhancement of
quality and operational efficiency of reporting; creation of conditions for refusal from hard
copies; facilitation of support and upgrade of software. However, centralization of accounting
and reporting is associated with certain costs and is accompanied by social and human resource
consequences, which require well-advised approach to management of involved risks. A
number of countries in the Treasury Community of Practice (TCOP) believe that in their
countries centralization of accounting could make sense; and at present they analyze possible
approaches to performance of this process and involved costs and risks.

                                                                      The main part of the third,
                                                                      the final day of the
                                                                      workshop was held in the
                                                                      territorial office of the
                                                                      Federal Treasury of Russia
                                                                      in Vladimir Oblast. This
                                                                      office of the Federal
                                                                      Treasury participated in
                                                                      the      pilot    stage   of
                                                                      implementation of the
                                                                      Treasury       Modernization
                                                                      Project,       which    was
                                                                      implemented with support
                                                                      of the World Bank;
besides, it was one of the first in the territory of Russia that really experienced results of its
implementation. In the course of implementation of the project, activities of the territorial
office underwent drastic changes, which touched upon its functions, organizational structure,
staff members and applied technologies.

Ms. Olga Bocharova, the Head of the Office of the Federal Treasury for Vladimir Oblast,
prepared for the participants a synoptical presentation about experience with modernization of
the territorial treasury. Mr. Valery Nutretsov, the Deputy Head of the Office of the Federal
Treasury for Vladimir Oblast, presented organization of document flow and an operation day
in the automated system of the Federal Treasury.




                                               49
In addition, a group of specialists of the territorial treasury presented in real time mode work
of the information system of the treasury of the Russian Federation. In the course of
demonstration, the participants of the workshop had an opportunity to get familiar with all
stages of the document flow
and execution of payments by
means of the information
system of the Treasury of
Russia. The procedure for
presenting            electronic
payment        requests      by
spending        units       was
demonstrated, as well as how
these requests are processed
by the treasury, and also
documents were shown that
are used by the treasury in the
process      of       executing
payments.
After completion of presentations, the participants of the workshop got an opportunity to get
familiar with working arrangement of the territorial treasury for Vladimir Oblast. In small
groups they visited key departments being accompanied by key specialists of the territorial



                                              50
treasury office and they discussed questions that represented interest for them with their
colleagues directly at the working places of the latter.

In the framework of the workshop also two bilateral meetings took place, in the course of
which leadership of the Treasury of the Russian Federation met with delegations of Serbia and
Albania. In the course of those meetings, representatives of the named countries had a
possibility to get answers to questions that interested them in connection with operations of the
treasury of Russia.

                                Main results of the workshop:

    On the basis of comprehensive information on the experience of the Russian Federation
     in reforming the treasury and implementing relevant reforms, numerous aspects of the
     Russian experience were identified that could be applied in other TCOP member
     countries. The participants of the workshop received comprehensive answers to
     questions that were interesting for them directly from managers and leading specialists
     of the Treasury of Russia.

    Representatives of the Russian Federation would provide for uploading into the
     PEMPAL library materials and documents related to the process of modernizing the
     treasury system and the public finance management in Russia, which aroused major
     interest among colleagues from other countries;

    The participants of the workshop clarified a number of important aspects related to
     formulation and implementation of strategies on modernization of treasury systems. It
     is expected that results of the discussions that took place at the workshop would
     contribute to deeper processing of strategic approaches to further improvement of
     activities of national treasuries of the TCOP countries;

    All countries that participated in the workshop declared that they are willing to share
     the documents that they have on strategic approaches to reforming treasury activities;

    Delegations of Albania and Serbia had an opportunity to receive additional information
     about operation of the treasury of Russian in the course of bilateral meetings organized
     based on their requests.

    During the workshop an agreement was reached to conclude bilateral agreements on
     cooperation between the Federal Treasury of Russia and treasuries of Serbia,
     Byelorussia and Kazakhstan.

More detailed information on the workshop, presentations and reports of the participants are
presented on the official site of the PEMPAL program – www.pempal.org



                                               51
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


   A. Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR


                                                      12/12/2012

                                                      To: World Bank Moscow Office

                                                      Attn: Michal Rutkowski
                                                      World Bank Country Director for Russia

                                                      36/1 Bolshaya Molchanovka, 121069,
                                                      Moscow

Re: On reviewing the draft
Implementation Completion Report
under the Treasury Development
Project


   Dear Mr. Rutkowski,

   The Federal Treasury would like to thank the World Bank for the support to the Treasury
   Development Project (Project) throughout the years of its implementation and for the high
   opinion of the achieved results.
   Upon reviewing the draft version of the Implementation Completion Report received from
   the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in its letter #-2012-
   00612/ECCU1 of 26 November 2012, please be informed that are no objections thereto.
   The successful implementation of the Project provided a serious incentive for further creation
   and development of web-based information technologies in the field of public finance aimed
   at reducing time, organizational and financial costs for citizens and organizations during the
   provision of state (municipal) services. Specifically, the Federal Treasury uses portal
   solutions to provide various types of information to physical and legal entities, which ensures
   transparency of financial transactions in the public sector of economy (official all-Russia
   website with information on procurement orders; the website of state and municipal
   institutions; the system of key performance indicators of budget execution; public
   information system of state and municipal payments, etc).
   The Federal Treasury would also like to note the importance and relevance of the project
   results in the long term perspective, as well as the current plans for further development and



                                               52
application of the project results both, in the field of budget legislation and in the field of
information technologies.
The developed information infrastructure and accumulated competences in the field of
information technologies would enable the Federal Treasury to take an active part in the
implementation of the Concept of Creating the State Integrated Public Finance Management
System – E-Budget.


                                                                               R.E. Artyukhin
                                                                     Head of Federal Treasury




                                            53
    B. Summary of Borrower’s ICR

Project Data

         Loan Agreement No. 4662-RU (Loan) toward the cost of the Russian Federation
Treasury Development Project (Project) was signed by the Russian Federation and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) on July 31, 2002 and became
effective on October 2, 2002.
         Initially, the borrowing for the purposes of the Project was planned as an adaptable
program loan in the total amount of up to USD 400,000,000 for an eight-year period to be
provided in two tranches of USD 231 million and up to USD 169 million respectively.
         According to article II, section 2.01 of the Agreement, the Bank extended the loan to the
Borrower in the amount equal to USD 231,000,000.
         Initially, the Closing Date was December 31, 2007, or such later date as the Bank shall
establish.
         The second tranche was planned to be raised during the period 2006 to 2010.
         The coordination of modifications in the Project’s financing scheme, given the
cancellation of the second tranche and extension of the Closing Date to 31 December 2010, was
initiated in joint letter No. 42-4.3-05/8 of 29 April 2006 signed by Mr. S.A. Storchak, Deputy
Minister of Finance of the Russian Federation, and Mr. T.G. Nesterenko, Head of the Federal
Treasury, addressed to the Minister of Finance of the Russian Federation.
         In the context of the main direction of the Russian Government's debt policy (Minutes of
the RF Government’s Meeting of 21 April 2005) aimed to reduce the volume of external
borrowings by the Russian Federation and in view of the Federal Treasury’s Justification No. 42-
4.3-05/8 of 29 April 2006, the MoF and the Ministry of Economic Development agreed to cancel
the second tranche given that the funds were to be replaced by a non-tax co-financing facility to
be provided by the Russian Federation (Letter No. 7514-KA/D13 of 29 May 2006).
         The IBRD agreed with the decision to cancel the second tranche and to raise resources for
the purposes from within Russian Federation.
         The MoF in its letter No. 04-02-09/6292 of 7 June 2006 approached the IBRD (Ms. K.
Georgieva, Director and Resident Representative of the World Bank in Russia) with a request to
make relevant amendments to the Loan Agreement between the Russian Federation and the IBRD
for financing of the Treasury Development Project.
         In response to the MoF’s request for extension of the Closing Date, the IBRD in its letter
No. 2006-00449/ECCU1 of 14 July 2006, as per section 2.03 of the Agreement, established 31
December 2009 as the new Closing Date and notified that further extension of the Closing Date to
31 December 2010 shall be subject to a mid-term review of the Project.
         On 2 October 2009, the MoF furnished a request to the IBRD to extend the Closing Date
to 31 December 2010, and the IBRD in its letter No. 2009-00555/ECCUI of 30 October 2009
informed that a relevant decision had been taken.
         On 22 June 2010, the Federal Treasury officially requested the MoF to initiate the
procedure of loan extension based on an analysis of the time required for rolling out the
application software (ASW) for the Federal Treasury Automated System (FTAS). This work was
planned to be completed no later than 1 January 2012 and this deadline was met, while an
additional six-month period – up to 30 June 2012 – was initially views as a time reserve.
         The Federal Treasury’s proposal to extend Closing Date of the Loan to 30 June 2012 was
supported by the MoF and the Ministry of Economic Development and approved by the IBRD on
24 December 2010 (letter No. 2010-00719/ECCU1).
         The IBRD in its letter No. 2012-00128/ECCU1 of 3 April 2012 established a four-month
grace period ending 31 October 2012.


                                                54
        On 30 June 2012 the Loan was closed.
        In September 2012, the MoF requested the IBRD to extend the grace period for another
two months until 31 December 2012.
        The IBRD in its letter No. 2012-486/ECCU1 of 2 October 2012 confirmed that the grace
period was extended through 31 December 2012.
        Prior to 2005, the Project was implemented by the MoF.
        After separation of the Federal Treasury in January 2005 into an independent structure –
the federal agency subordinate to the MoF, by Order No. 298-r of the RF Government, dated 23
March 2005, the Project implementation functions were assigned to the Federal Treasury, while
coordination and control of project implementation by the Federal Treasury was assigned to the
MoF and the MoED.
        Furthermore, the Legislation Improvement Component administered by the MoF was
launched to support the comprehensive budget legislation reform in the Russian Federation.

Project Objectives and Components

         The objective of the Project was to reform the processes and procedures of federal budget
execution in order to ensure effective implementation and control of the federal budget and to
create a transparent accounting system that would reflect the use of federal financial resources
and enable these resources to be managed and audited.
         The development of the Federal Treasury became one of the key components to support
improved public sector management.
         The improvement of the budget management system was the main component of the
reform, which was focused on improving the expenditure monitoring system, including
monitoring of budget liabilities, replacement of monetary regulations by the financial planning
system and a transparent system of accounting and reporting to the RF Government.
         The Project included the following main activities:
        − improvement of the budget legislation, including a review of the existing budget
classification, development of a new chart of accounts conforming with the principles of
government financial statistics, development of the regulatory framework, including rules,
processes, regulations and procedures for budget execution/reporting/cash management
(Legislation Improvement Component implemented by the MoF);
        − design, development/follow-on revision, pilot implementation and roll-out of the FTAS
ASW;
        − creation of Engineering Support Systems at FT project sites (ESS);
        − creation of the Departmental Transfer Network of the FT offices (DTN);
        − creation of the FTAS Operations Control System (OCS);
        − procurement of servers and other equipment for FTAS implementation;
        − information security assurance; and
        − organization of training and study trips for specialists of the Federal Treasury.
         Work on FTAS, ESS and DTN design was launched under the Federal Target Program
for Federal Treasury System Development in 2000–2004, of which the Project was the main
component.

        According to the Loan Agreement, the Project consisted of the following components:

        I. Technical Assistance
      1.        Assistance in the following areas:
      (a)       review of existing budget classifications and design of a revised chart of accounts
conforming to the GFS classification methodology;



                                                55
      (b)       development of the legal regulatory framework, including guidelines, processes,
regulations, procedures for budget execution, expenditure forecasting, fiscal reporting and cash
management, including an operating manual for budget execution expenditure forecasting;
      (c)       design and development of functional specifications for the treasury ledger
system and associated technology architectures; and
      (d)       quality assurance of design work.

         II. Equipment and Software
       This component included:
       1.        Pilot Phase
       Provision of equipment, consisting of servers, workstations and associated peripherals,
systems, office and network infrastructure and software for several selected pilot sites, including
the FT Headquarters and a maximum of three selected regional department of the Federal
Treasury and all associated local offices of the Federal Treasury.
       2.        Roll-out Phase
       Provision of equipment, including servers, workstations and associated peripherals,
systems, office equipment and network infrastructure and software for the FT Headquarters, FT
departments in the constituents of the Russian Federation and all FT offices.
       3.        Software
       Provision of application software, including network software, system software and
application software, as well as database management systems, and application development tools
for the Treasury system.

         III. Training and Retraining
       This component included provision of workshops, training courses and study tours to cover
specific technical and functional areas.

Key Lessons Learned

        Based on the results of the Project, it can be concluded that the following factors
contributed to its success:

        1. The selection of a special organization (FER) to perform the procedural and technical
functions in the preparation and implementation of the Project, including those related to the
preparation and execution of procurement, opening and maintaining of the Special Account of the
Loan, preparation of financial statements in compliance with the IBRD procedures, provision of
assistance to the Client in monitoring the preparation of documents required under international
contracts, and organization of ongoing interaction with the IBRD. At the same time, project
management arrangements always involved full responsibility of the Beneficiaries (MoF and FT)
for all major aspects of the Project and their coordination of project work with their ongoing
activities.

       2. Timely allocation of funds for Project preparation and thoroughness of Project
preparation. Prior to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, the institutional analysis of the
Federal Treasury was carried out and Project consultants whose services were required during
this period were hired using the resources allocated for Project preparation through Japanese
Government Grant No. TF-025812 held in trust by the IBRD. The institutional analysis helped
systematize the main challenges encountered by the FT offices and to develop recommendations
on resolving them, including FTAS creation. The proceeds of Loan 3844-RU for the
Development of the Russian Federation’s Loan Portfolio were used to cover costs related to
Project preparation and to promptly procure quality assurance services for FTAS development.


                                                56
Assistance provided by the FER and Project consultants made it possible, already at the initial
stage, to carry out bidding procedures and to enter into several contracts, including the contract
with the Integrator, which formed the basis for other activities under the Project. Thus, conditions
established during Project preparation made it possible to carry out a whole range of activities
necessary to develop a clear-cut Project Implementation Plan, to create Project management
infrastructure and to carry out priority works, thus saving time on mobilization during the start-up
of the Project.

        3. Political support by RF Government and other federal executive agencies. The
involvement of the Russian Government in the Project and its results enabled the Federal
Treasury, at the initial stage, to promptly (less than 5 months) carry out all procedures necessary
for the Russian Federation to sign the Loan Agreement and to fulfill conditions for its
effectiveness. During Project implementation and after its completion, through the support of the
RF Government and with the assistance of the MoF and the Ministry of Economic Development
the Project received non-tax co-financing from the Russian Federation to proceed with a range of
activities to be financed through this facility. Thus, a package of interrelated activities
implemented under one Project was financed through different sources. All issues related to
Project implementation were promptly and effectively resolved by the MoF and other government
agencies (if necessary) with the MoF monitoring the progress of work on an annual basis.

       4. Retaining the project teams of key contractors throughout the entire period of contract
implementation. The Project’s experience showed that changes in project teams during the
execution of challenging assignments had a very negative effect on the results and prospects of
contract implementation. The turnover of the key personnel in the contractors’ teams required
new specialists to familiarize themselves with the subject matter, which affected both the duration
and the thoroughness of works (services). For instance, the Integrator managed to keep the same
team of specialists throughout the entire Project, which ensured the continuity and consistency of
solutions and good coordination with the Federal Treasury. Alternatively, the turnover of staff in
the contractor’s team under the Contract on quality assurance eventually caused the Client to
cancel this Contract. During the implementation of the Project’s key Contract focused on FTAS
creation, the turnover of staff resulted in work delays, and it was only after the stable project team
had been established, that the Project managed to achieve a successful result.

       5. Stability/continuity of operations in the Borrower’s project team. The long project
implementation period and institutional changes that occurred during this time did not allow the
Borrower to retain the project team unchanged, nevertheless the MoF and FT succeeded in
ensuring the stability and continuity of the key personnel, which contributed to the consistency in
decision-making. Even with the change of the key personnel (e.g., the Project Director), older
team members were not immediately excluded from the project activities, but instead efforts were
made to ensure gradual transfer of institutional memory (e.g., the ex-Project Director worked as
Advisor until the completion of the Project).

       6. Stability/continuity of operations in the Bank’s project team. Changes in the Bank’s
project team were very rare, and one of the key specialists was engaged in the Project throughout
the entire project implementation period. The Task Team Leader remained the same from the
moment of launching the active phase of FTAS implementation; there were practically no
changes in the team of IT and procurement specialists. This ensured consistency in the Bank’s
requirements and approaches to the Project activities.

       7. Flexibility of the Bank in management of the Project and recognition of the specifics
of the country and the national legislation directly or indirectly affecting the implementation of


                                                 57
the Project activities. During the Project implementation period the Bank was flexible in
responding to particular operational aspects of the Project. For instance, a flexible approach to the
technical requirements for the procurement of server equipment fostered competition among
different manufacturers, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, enabled equipment build-up and
consistency of the technical parameters with the planned requirements for the FTAS. In the
situations with delayed project activities, the Bank’s team members and leadership showed much
patience and preferred not to call for strict formal remedies, but instead came up with constructive
ideas and suggested possible solutions for most challenging situations.

       8. Involvement of the Integrator in the work on FTAS creation. This decision turned out
to be good and very productive. The Integrator contributed to the preparation of technical
requirements for all major procurement packages in most areas of the FT’s disbursement. The
Integrator’s specialists with substantial and diverse experience became a major source of
professional knowledge during the procurement of most sophisticated systems, e.g., high-end
server equipment or DTN. The deliverables produced under the Integrator’s contract included the
FTAS Implementation Strategy and specific action plans for all relevant types of work. Thus, the
Federal Treasury ensured integration of all Project components at all stages, managed to avoid
conflicting solutions developed in various areas and had a useful source of independent and
professional expertise on the most complex aspects of the Project.

        9. Completeness of preparation and thoroughness in elaboration of technical
requirements for bidding under the contract for FTAS improvement/development. During the
Project start-up, it was agreed that, despite two-stage competitive bidding, the FTAS functional
requirements should be elaborated in the documents in sufficient detail. As a result, refining of
the requirements for all system components required rather long time. Nonetheless, certain slow
down in the pace of work during preparation of the bidding documents was offset by the fact that
the bidding process resulting in the award of the Contract, which enabled a close follow-up of the
Consultant’s outcomes. The detailed requirements made it possible to require the Consultant, in a
strict manner, to perform the whole scope of work related to FTAS improvement and to ensure its
compliance the FT’s needs.

       10. Efficient selection of bidding procedures for the procurement of information systems:
            − Two-stage international competitive bidding provided the opportunity to engage
suppliers capable of executing the assignments without the risk of misunderstood requirements.
Negotiations with the bidders between the first and the second stages of bidding made it possible
to increase the number of mandatory requirements in the bidding documentation for the second
stage of the bidding process. As a result, the time spent on the bidding process was offset by the
significant reduction in the contract value compared to the initial estimate and by the availability
of a clear-cut list of the supplier’s obligations under the contract.
            − Separate procurement of application software and hardware made it possible to
avoid functional depreciation of the equipment during the period of ASW development/follow-on
revision and pilot implementation. The equipment was purchased in waves in accordance with the
schedule for ASW roll-out and supplied to respective FTDs prior to the roll-out. The technical
requirements for the equipment were prepared by the Integrator based on well-defined
requirements for the FTAS ASW and were subject to stringent verification of competition among
manufacturers of relevant equipment.

      11. Implementation of project management:
            − From 2003, the Project Director was an appointed Deputy Head of the Federal
Treasury who was granted relevant powers and resources to implement these powers. There was
well-defined delineation of powers between MoF and FT officials under the whole Project and


                                                 58
under individual contracts, as well as with the regional level, first of all, in the pilot regions. The
powers and responsibilities were recorded in respective Project Management Plans and
Subproject Management Plans for individual contracts subject to approval by Administrative
Orders issued by the Federal Treasury that were binding upon contractors.
            − From the start-up of the Program, one of the divisions in the FT Central Office in
the MoF was entrusted with the coordination of Program activities, organizational support and
administration of the Program, and later of the Project. From 2005 when the Federal Treasury
separated from the MoF into a federal agency and after commencing practical work on FTAS
development and implementation, the Department of Sectoral Programs (SPD) was established in
the Federal Treasury. The SPD was granted relevant powers and reported to the Project Director.
At the end of 2010, when the final phase of the Project began, these powers were delegated to the
Information Systems Department and other divisions, while the existing project management
structure was retained.
            − Project management was implemented both, in respect to the whole Project and to
large contracts; ongoing monitoring of contract implementation was carried out under the
Integrated Project Plan, which provided for ongoing monitoring of interconnected and interrelated
components and activities, as well as the deadlines for their execution. Ongoing monitoring of
project implementation was carried out with regard to the whole Project, its components and
individual contracts, including monitoring undertaken by the regional FTDs.

       12. Integrated and well-scheduled approach to project activities. The implementation of
all components of the Project was planned in a well-thought-out sequence proceeding from the
plans for using the results produced during the previous stage(s). For instance, the creation of the
ESS and delivery of initial training were a pre-requisite for DTN implementation; the ESS and
DTN jointly created a technical platform for FTAS ASW roll-out subject to the delivery of
required server equipment; at the same time, the schedules for the supply of respective equipment
and execution of respective works were aligned among the components and with the schedule for
FRAS implementation and roll-out in each of 83 regional FTDs.

       13. Importance of fixing (freezing) the regulatory framework during the implementation
of complex automated systems in government bodies. The implementation of complex automated
systems (like FTAS) requires consistency of their operation with the existing regulatory
framework. The most expedient way is to fix the regulatory framework for the fulfillment of
functions subject to automation for a period from goal-setting to complete implementation of the
automated system. However, this question is often out of the Client’s control and is one of the
key risk factors in the implementation of complex automated systems in government bodies. The
changing regulatory framework was one of the main reasons for delays in FTAS implementation.
In view of the Bank’s recommendation, it was decided to freeze the regulatory framework, at
least, during the period of FTAS development (for about one year). This decision made it
possible to move from comprehensive bench testing to pilot testing and trial operation in the pilot
regions. In this regard, it is important to take into account the possibility of changes in the
legislation when preparing contracts for the development/follow-on revision of automated
systems, as well as contracts for the Integrator's services.

       14. Involvement of local specialists in project teams of foreign developers and
engagement of qualified local subcontractors at the stages of ASW pilot implementation and roll-
out. This factor has a positive effect on the quality and duration of work enabling developers to
take into account, as much as possible, information available in the language of the Client’s
country and local specifics without spending too much time.




                                                  59
       15. Consistency of reference tables and data structure during data migration from the
legacy automatic systems to the rolled-out ASW in the centralization process. Mismatches in
reference tables and data structure with formally matching database structures of geographically
distributed objects is the second key risk, which in the case of the FTAS ASW was one of the
reasons for the extension of the pilot stage. Based on the acquired experience, as part of
preparation for FTAS ASW roll-out, the Federal Treasury made major efforts to prepare the
quality of data from the legacy automated system in all 2,500 project sites, and the developer
additionally developed tools for an automated check on data to be migrated. This was one of the
factors that contributed to successful completion of ASW roll-out within the planned tight
schedule. It should be noted in this regard that earlier, the Federal Treasury ensured the
changeover of all its regional offices to a single interim system that became the legacy system,
instead of several systems that had been, since 2005, concurrently functioning in different
projects sites. Several legacy systems would have significantly increased the risks and costs
associated with the roll-out.

       16. Running the test phase and acceptance of the development stage with due
consideration of beta testing of the system on real data in parallel with continued operation of the
legacy system and comparative check of data with the legacy system in the pilot regions. Close
monitoring of work results preceding the roll-out with an emphasis on pilot roll-out increases the
time spent during respective stages but significantly reduces risks and timeframes during the roll-
out stage. On the whole, the thoroughness and quality of the pilot implementation stage should be
viewed as another significant that contributed to successful FTAS ASW roll-out within the
planned schedule.

       17. Formation of a separate highly qualified team to be permanently stationed at project
sites during the stage of pilot implementation and organization of a support team in the
Contractor's headquarters. The on-site teams were expected to meet higher requirements for the
level of their competence and skills.

       18. Efficient planning of resources by the Contractor at the stage of roll-out for a
geographically distributed system. The timeframe of this stage to a great extend depends on the
availability of qualified specialists whose number should be sufficient for concurrent work at
several sites. If the contractor does not have enough in-house specialists, it is good practice to
involve specialists on an ad hoc basis and/or subcontractors to be trained in the system specifics
prior to the roll-out. The Contractor engaged over 300 of its employees for concurrent work
during FTAS ASW roll-out.

       19. Well-thought-out and timely large-scale training of functional and technical
specialists at the Federal Treasury carried out in accordance with the developed strategy using
modern teaching methods and best international practice with the support from the Federal
Treasury’s management. During the Project, training was delivered both, under contracts for the
supply of equipment and software (in line with the contract specifics) and separately, including
three main areas: training in the procedural framework for functional specialists at all levels of
the treasury system, training of IT specialists and training in information security. Special
mention should be made of the development of instructional methods, teaching aids and the use
of trained specialists as teaching staff to ensure an ongoing process of professional development
for specialists at the local level.

       20. Procurement of scalable hardware based on software requirements during the period
immediately preceding the commencement of operation of the purchased equipment. The
technical requirements for the procured equipment were prepared based on the analysis of the


                                                60
requirements of specific sites. Systematic monitoring of changes in the requirements (time history
of processed data volumes) and timely upgrade of equipment reflecting the growing need for
more computational power.

       21. Creation of fault-tolerance and disaster-recovery subsystems for critical public sector
systems. In the Project, these objectives were mainly addressed by ESS creation, mechanisms of
data duplication, and a reserve computation center.

       22. Creation of an independent system to monitor the status of hardware and software,
and organization of appropriate quality support. In the Project, this task was resolved with OCS
creation (Operations Control System).

       23. Compulsory incorporation of information security requirements, creation of
authorized protected electronic document management, and implementation of electronic
signatures.

       24. Flexibility in the implementation of long-term contracts; incorporation of modern
trends. For instance, under the contract for the FTAS ASW effective from 2005, a portal solution
was implemented to provide access to the system for external users, which enabled clients of the
Federal Treasury to work in their personal accounts on the web portal of the Federal Treasury in
real time mode, with an option of working from any device connected to the Internet coupled
with the provision of relevance in law and protection of information in the electronic document
management system.

       25. Sustainability of project solutions; incorporation of achieved results and established
systems in the Government's long-term plans. For instance, the project on e-budget creation is
being developed based on the FTAS.

        26. Creation of modern regulatory and institutional environment, which would not only
enable full-fledged use of FTAS advantages and functionality, but would also open up
opportunities for its further improvement and development being one of the key methodological
approaches during Project implementation. As noted above, ongoing modification and
improvement of the legislation, e.g., public sector accounting rules, the budget classification or
implementation of the program classification required continuous revisions and improvements in
the terms of reference for FTAS creation and complicated its development and implementation.
However, it does not appear feasible to carry out an integrated reform of the budget system within
a short timeframe in such a large country, which has more than 300,000 spending units of all
levels, a large share of public expenditures in the GDP and over 22,000 municipal budgets. The
concurrent development of both, the FTAS and the institutional environment is not only a
challenge but also the opportunity for FTAS expansion and utilization of its functionality. In fact,
institutional capacities and legal norms of its application were formed concurrently with the
system itself. Such coordination of activities presents an essential achievement of the Project,
specifically of its Legislation Improvement Component.

       27. Thorough preparation and flexible implementation of contracts under the Legislation
Improvement Component. Practice shows that lengthy time of contract preparation and
implementation under the Legislation Improvement Component, which was often the subject of
disputes between the MoF and the IBRD, was ultimately justified since tasks related to the
formation of the institutional environment required ongoing adaptation of the stated objectives
and requirements. This made it possible, throughout the entire period of the Legislation
Improvement Component and in cooperation with the IBRD, to ensure the MoF’s access to the


                                                61
most recent international experience of both successful and unsuccessful reforms (thus saving
time and quite significant resources), to the accumulated expert potential inside Russia, and to
summarized and analyzed experience and potential of Russian subnational and local
governments. Hard work with consultants and capability to amend the terms and conditions of
contracts implemented under the Legislation Improvement Component made it possible to
achieve results that significantly exceed the size of the "window of opportunity" at the beginning
of Component implementation. As it turned out, the reform opportunities were greater than it
could be expected, and the fact that they had not been missed in all spheres is in many respects
the achievement of the whole Project, and the Legislation Improvement Component in particular.

        28. Consistent activities under the Legislation Improvement Component in accordance
with strategic priorities both in goal setting and in methodological approaches to work
organization and acceptance.
         Despite the changing conditions, the emergence of new approaches to and plans for the
improvement of the regulatory framework, the need to align activities under the Project with the
plans of the MoF and RF Government, and, consequently, the increasing period of Component
implementation, the MoF always followed its strategic priorities and methodological approaches
in regard to the Component, which made it possible to produce very good results.
         These priorities included:
             − focus of key decision-makers on the content of work and the quality of results
(practice of systematic discussion of the content of the deliverables by the MoF’s key officials
responsible for respective activities);
             − conformity of the content and timeframes of consultants’ activities under the
subprojects within the Legislation Component with the MoF’s schedule of activities on reforming
the budget sector;
             − openness and transparency of the produced deliverables (public discussions and
reiterated publication of relevant materials on the MoF’s website, mailing of materials to a wide
range of stakeholders, etc);
             − mid-term forecasting of budget reform goals and directions (program documents)
and relevant adaptation of the contract contents;
             − focus on improving the quality of human capital at the subnational and local
level; and
             − focus on critically new policy forms and mechanisms to be developed and
implemented based on international best practice (GFS, international accounting standards, e-
budget, etc).

       29. Improving the quality of human capital in the public sector on issues of financial
management. Training in the provisions of the Budget Code dealing with budget execution and
training in budget accounting and reporting delivered under the Legislation Improvement
Component contributed to improving the qualifications of a large group of specialists employed
by the recipients of budget funds and, in this way, to improving public financial management
practices and enhancing the effectiveness of budget procedures, including innovations set forth in
Federal Law No. 83-FZ of 8 May 2010 On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of the
Russian Federation to Improve the Legal Status of Governmental (Municipal) Institutions. Any
innovations can be practically implemented only through synchronized, large-scale quality
training of local specialists.

       30. Sustainability of the results achieved under the Legislation Improvement Component.
The component laid the important groundwork, which will not only enable FTAS development
but will also set a vector for improving budget policies in medium-term perspective:



                                               62
             −   recommendations on e-budget structure and functionality;
             −   development of national public sector accounting and financial reporting
standards;
          −     development of recommendations on further reforming of the public financial
management system in the Russian Federation; and
          −     development of recommendations on harmonization of budget accounting,
government finance statistics and budget classification used for budget planning.
        The project deliverables were used, inter alia, for drafting the RF Government’s Program
of Enhancing the Effectiveness of Public (State and Municipal) Finance Management in the
Period until 2018.


Development Objectives and Outcomes Achieved under the Treasury Development Project

        Ensure conditions for effective implementation of the budget through payment
process centralization
        As of 12 October 2012, 21 719 budget process participants with ledger accounts serviced
in the Federal Treasury and 43 other spending units with ledger accounts serviced in the Central
Bank of the Russian Federation or credit organizations (branches) were included in the
Consolidated Register of the chief administrators, administrators and recipients of budget funds,
chief administrators and administrators of budget revenues, chief administrators and
administrators of budget deficit financing sources.
        On the basis of the data provided in the technical directory of the EDMS application
software “Ledger Accounts?, as of 12 October 2012, 352 686 ledger accounts opened by the
budget process participants (non-participants) of the following budget levels are serviced in the
Federal Treasury’s offices:

     - federal budget                                                               40 343 l/acc;
     - subnational budgets                                                          33 845 l/acc;
     - local budgets                                                               187 013 l/acc;
     - budgets of state off-budget funds                                               133 l/acc;
     - budgets of territorial state off-budget funds                                    76 l/acc;
     - funds of legal entities                                                      91 276 l/acc.

         Timely presentation of fiscal accounts for external audit.
         Under the Legislation Improvement Component of the Project, the consultants proposed
and the MoF partially incorporated amendments to:
         - Instruction on the Procedure for Preparation and Presentation of Annual, Quarterly
and Monthly Reports on Budget Execution within the RF Budget System approved by the MoF’s
Order No. 128n of 13 November 2008; and
         - Instruction on Budgetary Accounting approved by the MoF’s Order No. 148n of 30
December 2008.
         The roadmap to support the budgetary accounting reform developed under the Project
was partially implemented by the MoF and its subordinate federal government agencies,
including such measures as revision of Budgetary Accounting and Reporting Instructions,
organization of the official translation of IPSAS into the Russian language, and development of
draft national and sectoral reporting and accounting standards.
         Fiscal accounts are presented for external audit by relevant bodies within 3 months after
fiscal year end.




                                                 63
         Training of adequate numbers of financial and technical staff to operate new system.
         The FT Training Concept (Concept) was approved in September 2006. According to the
Concept, the key success factor in the process of the large-scale FTAS development and
implementation, as well as improvement of budget accounting and treasury operations in
conditions of revisions in the legislative framework regulating the FT’s activity on providing cash
services to budgets of the RF’s budget system and preparing fiscal reports was the readiness of
FT specialists to perform their functions in new conditions based on modern information
technologies and taking into account the introduced regulatory and methodological changes.
         In accordance with the Concept and the Integrator’s recommendations, the training of FT
specialists in the use of technical facilities to bee supplied was an integral part of all major
contracts for the supply of the ESS components, DTN, servers, information protection facilities
and the FTAS ASW contract.
         At the same time, training of the personnel was focused on improving the personnel’s
skills and knowledge in the area of their expertise, improved IT and information protection skills
and their professional development, including also learning about the best international practices.
         The training was provided in three key areas:
        − Training of functional specialists in basic computer skills; training of IT specialists. The
training was delivered to:
             - 9463 functional specialists from 87 FTDs on the subject: Upgrade of Basic Skills
                 in IT Application; an electronic version of the training course: Upgrade of Basic
                 Skills of FT Personnel in IT Application was developed for the purposes of
                 further in-service training;
             - 118 heads of regional IT divisions and staff of FT HQ were trained in 6 training
                 courses on the subject: Upgrade of Knowledge of FT IT Specialists in the
                 Organization and Implementation of Processes related to Design, Creation and
                 Operation of Systems Implemented in the FTAS; and
             - 218 specialists in 11 training courses on the subject: Operation and Maintenance
                 of Engineering Support System Components in FT Offices.
                 This project won the first place in the Education Solution Nomination at the
                 Microsoft Partner of the Year Awards from among over 3000 applicants across
                 the world.
        − Training of functional specialists in the methodological framework. Training in 8
subject areas was delivered to 2970 FT specialists, including 250 specialists from FT HQ and
2720 specialists from FTDs.
        − Training of FT specialists on the subject: Information Protection in Modern Information
Technologies. Training in 4 subject areas was delivered to 401 staff members.

         Treasury Single Account established at the Central Bank of Russia. Spending units’
accounts at commercial banks closed.
         The Treasury Single Account (TSA) presents an account (aggregate of accounts for the
federal budget and budgets of state off-budget funds of the Russian Federation) opened for the
Federal Treasury in the branches of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation separately for
each budget of the RF budget system for accounting of budget funds and execution of
transactions with cash receipts to the budget and cash payments from the budget.
         The TSA operations in Russia are based on the following key methodological principles:
       − The principle of cash unity means entering all incoming budget revenues, attraction and
repayment of budget deficit financing sources, making all expenditures from the budget single
account, except budget execution transactions made outside the territory of the Russian
Federation in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation;




                                                 64
       − The principle of total (aggregate) expenditure coverage means that the volume of cash
payments provided for in the budget must correspond to the aggregate volume of budget revenues
and receipts from its deficit financing sources.
         However, during the first years of conversion to the treasury system of budget execution
the significant portion of cash funds of the federal budget was available on different accounts. In
such case, one of the key principles of the budget system – cash unity – was insufficiently used.
The implementation of the principle of cash unity required all cash receipts and all cash payments
to be made from the budget single account.
         The RF Government’s Resolution No.107-p, dated 23 January 2000, approved the
Concept of Establishing the Single Account of the Federal Treasury of the Ministry of Finance of
the Russian Federation for Recording of Federal Budget Revenues and Funds (Concept).
         The Concept was designed to optimize the flows of budget funds, to create the
mechanism for effective management of budget funds, to reduce the timeframe for their delivery
to spending units, to save financial resources, to ensure centralized accounting of receipts to the
budgets of all levels of the RF budget system, and to provide updated information on the progress
in the budget execution.
         The implementation of the Concept as one of the priority objectives in the development
of treasury budget execution made it possible to centralize revenue and budget funds flows, thus
significantly reducing the timeframe for their circulation within the budget execution process.
         On 1 January 2003, the implementation of the Concept of the Federal Treasury Single
Account was fully completed with respect to the centralization of revenues to be further
distributed by the FT among the levels of the RF budget system.
         By 1 February 2006, the TSA was established in all RF constituents to process budget
expenditure transactions through accounts opened for the FTDs, which made it possible from 1
May 2006 to replenish the FT’s territorial units within the limits of their real needs for the
purposes of cash transactions related to payments of liabilities.
         Accounts of spending units in commercial banks were closed with the exception of 2% of
spending units located outside the Russian Federation.

        New management processes and expenditure control for budget execution in place
and functioning by 1 July 2007.
        The Federal Treasury provides cash servicing the RF the federal, subfederal and local
budgets.
        The procedure for recording of budget commitments by the Federal Treasury are
specified by the MoF’s Order No. 98n On the Procedure for Recording of Budget Commitments
of Spending Units, dated 19 September 2008.
        The Federal Treasury authorizes federal budget spending in accordance with the
requirements set forth in the Procedure for Authorization of Payments for Liabilities of Spending
Units and Administrators of Budget Deficit Financing Sources approved by the MoF’s Order No.
87n, dated 1 September 2008.

         Revised budget classification system adopted and budget prepared according to new
classification. First stage revisions 2003; finalized 2005.
         Activities implemented under the Legislation Improvement Component included:
         − review of the existing budget classification and design of a revised chart of accounts
compliant with the GFS classification methodology; and
         − development of the legal regulatory framework, including guidelines, procedures,
regulations, forms for budget execution, fiscal reporting and cash management, including
preparation of the operating manual for budget forecasting.
         The adoption of methodological proposals developed by consultants engaged in the
Project ensured the achievement of the intermediate results indicator related to the adoptions of


                                                65
the revised budget classification system. The new budget classification was implemented from
2005, which provided for the uniformity of cash and financial indicators, comparability of budget
execution indicators in the budget system, and harmonization of accounting and reporting.

        Treasury ledger systems with required functionality implemented at 3 pilot regions
(including FTOs) by December 2006.
        Adequate conditions for FTAS ASW implementation were created in the selected pilot
regions – Samara Oblast, Saratov Oblast and Ulyanovsk Oblast: ESS and DTN were put into
operation, servers and other relevant equipment was supplied, information protection facilities
were established, and specialists received relevant training.
        Due to a number of reasons, both technical and those associated with reforming the
regulatory framework of budget execution within the RF’s budget system, FTAS ASW was
implemented in the pilot regions – Samara, Saratov and Ulyanovsk Oblasts, and in Vladimir
Oblast in 2009.

        Treasury ledger systems with required functionality rolled out to all regions,
including FTOs.
        Adequate conditions for FTAS ASW roll-out were created in all offices of the Federal
Treasury: ESS and DTN were put into operation, information protection facilities were
established, servers and other relevant equipment was supplied in accordance with the roll-out
schedule, and specialists received relevant training.
        FTAS ASW roll-out was successfully completed in all FT units across the Russian
Federation and in the in the FT Central Office in 2011.

        Timely and reliable budget reports produced by the FT for government agencies (by
the end of the adaptable program loan).
        The FTAS enables to provide a full range of budget reporting required in accordance with
the RF budget legislation.

Assessment of Borrower and Bank Performance

    Federal Government Performance

            Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation

        The MoF carried out the project preparatory work, made arrangements for the signing of
Loan Agreement No. 4662-RU, and undertook the whole range of project implementation
activities prior to the establishment in 2005 of the Federal Treasury as a separate federal service.
        From 2005, the MoF was responsible for the implementation of the Legislation
Improvement Component under Clauses 1 (a) and 1 (b) of Part A, Technical Assistance of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, made decisions on project extension, provided control over
effective and eligible use of funds provided by the IBRD, provided control over timely
submission of reports by the Federal Treasury and the FER, and approved project implementation
plans, project procurement plans and project budgets for the respective year, and reports on
project implementation and project procurement for the previous year.
        The MoF enabled prompt coordination with the IBRD and implementation of key
modifications to the Project during the restructuring process aimed to improve the effectiveness
in handling the project tasks and achieving the project objectives, as well as timely co-financing
of all agreed project activities, thus contributing to the achievement of the project objectives.
        The MoF’s performance related to project implementation is rated as Highly Satisfactory.



                                                66
            Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation

        The MoED acting in accordance with the Procedures for the Implementation of IBRD-
funded Projects, approved RF Government Decree No. 43 of 28 January 2005 On Handling
Projects Implemented by the Russian Federation with the Participation of International Financial
Institutions, approved project implementation plans, project procurement plans and project
budgets for the respective year, and reports on project implementation and project procurement
for the previous year.
        When drafting the Federal Law on the Federal Budget for a respective year, the MoED,
together with the MoF, allocated funds from the federal budget toward the cost of the Project for
the respective fiscal year and planning period.
        The MoED’s performance related to project implementation is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

            Federal Treasury

       Prior to 2005, the Main Administration of the Federal Treasury within the MoF was
responsible for planning, ongoing coordination and management of most project activities, for
implementation of bidding procedures with the exception of issues within the FER’s competence,
and for monitoring of contract execution.
       From 2005, the Federal Treasury was responsible for annual planning of project activities
and resources allocated from both the loan proceeds and co-financing, including non-tax co-
financing, and for preparation and submission of required regular reports to the IBRD, MoF,
MoED, and supervisory bodies.
       The Federal Treasury accomplished the main scope of project activities in accordance with
Loan Agreement No. 4662-RU.
       The performance of the Federal Treasury enabled the achievement of the project objectives.
       The FT’s performance related to project implementation is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

            Territorial Units of the Federal Treasury

         The territorial units of the Federal Treasury, acting on the instructions and requests of the
Main Administration of the Federal Treasury, provided the required information to the
suppliers/consultants under project contract, actively participated in pilot implementation and
roll-out of project solutions, and engaged their staff in training provided under the Project.
       The performance of territorial units of the Federal Treasury related to the project
implementation is rated as Highly Satisfactory.


       Bank Performance

       Acting in accordance with the Loan Agreement, General Conditions for Loans, the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, as amended from time to time, as well as
other IBRD documents, the IBRD reviewed and approved the implementation strategy, key
project implementation activities, project implementation plans and procurement plans, bidding
documents at various stages of procurement procedures, provided advice to the MoF, Federal
Treasury and FER on above issues, and allocated resources to finance the Project under the Loan
Agreement. In addition, the IBRD reviewed and approved amendments to the Loan Agreement



                                                 67
proposed by the Borrower.
       As part of monitoring the progress of project implementation, the IBRD reviewed financial
statements and progress reports under different project components submitted by the FER. Also,
the IBRD undertook regular field missions to evaluate implementation progress and achieved
results, and provided the MoF, Federal Treasury and FER with recommendations based on the
results of these missions.
       Overall, the process of interaction with the IBRD can be characterized as constructive and
successful. The IBRD provided, as promptly as specified by the Bank’s procedures, approvals to
key project activities, bidding documents and other documents subject to IBRD approval. The
IBRD’s comments were generally constructive and well-grounded, and contributed to improving
the effectiveness of bidding procedures and the quality of bidding documents. The IBRD’s
independent missions, comments and assistance of IBRD experts contributed to more objective
evaluation of project implementation progress and achieved results. Therefore, the IBRD’s
performance under the Project is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

      Implementing Agency Performance

       In accordance with the Loan Agreement and the Agency Agreement, the Noncommercial
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Development (FER) was
actively involved in the preparation of the Project and, after the Loan Agreement was signed and
became effective, acted as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) throughout the entire project
implementation period.
        As part of this activity, the FER prepared bidding documents and obtained the MoF and
IBRD’s approvals for these documents, made arrangements for the procurement of goods, works
and services and prepared contracts in keeping with the IBRD rules and in accordance with the
objectives of the Project, entered into contracts with consulting firms based on the Terms of
Reference approved by the Federal Treasury and agreed with the IBRD, and made payments
under such contracts using the loan proceeds and counterpart funds. The FER was also
responsible for making payments under contracts for the supply of goods under the Project,
accounting of the loan proceeds, counterpart funds and operational costs in accordance with the
IBRD requirements and the Russian legislation, preparation and submission of financial
statements and project progress reports to the MoED, MoF, Federal Treasury and IBRD, as well
as for the performance of any other project-related activities.
        The FER performed its duties of the project implementation unit efficiently and properly.
The FER’s performance as the Project’s implementing agency is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

Pros and Cons of the Bank's Involvement

       In the context of the federal budget deficit and a great number of important tasks to be
addressed by the Government of the Russian Federation at the project start-up, the IBRD’s
involvement in Project financing was the key factor of its implementation. But for the IBRD’s
financial assistance, the scope of activities on modernizing the treasury system in the Russian
Federation would have been significantly reduced. The most critical factor for involving the
IBRD in the Project was related to the favorable financing conditions: provision by the IBRD of
substantial loan proceeds, grace period for the repayment of the principle amount of the Loan,
and low interest on loan services.
       In addition to the favorable financing conditions, the following factors played a certain
positive role in improving the Project’s performance, as well as the performance of other IBRD-
financed projects:




                                               68
          -   close monitoring and evaluation of project implementation by the IBRD at all the
stages;
         - strict and unified procedures for the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with the IBRD standards;
         - participation of IBRD specialists in the analysis and approval of the objectives, tasks,
and scope of activities in each meaningful area of activities;
         - wide global coverage of markets of proposals and suppliers of goods and services;
use of best international practice;
         - improved quality and adequacy in assessing the Project’s achievements through
regular independent evaluations of project implementation and achievements by highly qualified
IBRD specialists and engaged experts with extensive international experience;
         - project audit in accordance with international auditing standards;
         - opportunity to receive advisory assistance from highly qualified IBRD specialists
during project implementation; and
       -     the Project’s status and importance increased through the involvement of the largest
international financial institution.
       Lengthy approval and bidding procedures had certain impact on the duration of project
implementation, but were eventually offset by the quality of services and goods delivered.

        By playing an active and important role during all project stages, the Bank demonstrated
flexibility in project management, which had a highly positive effect on project implementation.
        One of the key success factors was the IBRD’s highly qualified project team and the
availability of specialists who were well familiar with the Project from the moment of its
initiation and had experience in implementing similar project. The transition to a new Task Team
Leader was smooth and added dynamics to ongoing activities as the new Task Team Leader had
extensive experience with public financial management projects in different countries,
demonstrated deep involvement in all Project-related issues and challenges, and, with the support
and input from the IBRD team, has greatly contributed to the Project’s success.
        During preparation and implementation of the Project, the project team of the Federal
Treasury and the MoF, in cooperation with the IBRD, gained extensive experience of interaction
with international financial institutions, and procurement and contract implementation in keeping
with the World Bank’s rules and procedures.



Project Sustainability

       The establishment of FTAS – a unified, large-scale, reliable and flexible automated system
able to meet all functional requirements for the provision of cash services to budget execution in
the RF budget system was one of the Project’s major results. The system’s reliability is confirmed
by smooth performance by FT offices of their key operations. The capability to improve the
system and to adjust it to new legislation and technical solutions gives evidence of FTAS
flexibility.
       The scale of the system is demonstrated through its implementation in all FT offices across
the Russian Federation.
       FTAS components were installed in FT HQ and 83 FTDs to support:
         −       user operations within the system in more than 2000 offices of the Federal
Treasury;




                                                69
         −        processing and accounting of transactions on more than 60 000 ledger accounts
of budget process participants at the federal level and 290 000 ledger accounts of budget process
participants at the subfederal/local level;
         −        cash servicing of almost 24 000 budgets at all levels;
         −        processing and accounting of large volumes of data:
              − up to 320 000 payment documents on budget revenues in one FTD every day;
                  and
              − up to 50 000 payment documents on budget expenditures in one FTD every day.
       Information stored in FTAS is used as source data for systems created and running in the
Federal Treasury and also those planned to be created by the RF Government and MoF.
       At present, the MoF and FT, in cooperation with interested government agencies,
undertake activities envisaged by the Concept of Creating and Developing the State Integrated
Public Finance Management System “Electronic Budget?.
       The e-budget system will be created based on maximum use of computerization results
achieved by public and local governments and elimination of duplication of application and
infrastructure solutions commissioned under the Project.
       The existing FTAS functional modules support most processes related to cash servicing of
budgets within the RF budget system to be implemented in the subsystems of the e-budget system.
The expansion of these capabilities to support other ministries and agencies, as well as
subnational and local governments, and the improvement of FTAS integration mechanisms in
accordance with the principles of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) will enable to use FTAS
platform as a basis for the implementation of these e-budget subsystems.
         The sustainability of project results is also confirmed by the fact that the Methodological
Guidelines for Budget Accounting in Financial Bodies and Bodies Responsible for Cash
Servicing of Budget Execution and the Methodological Guidelines for Budget Accounting in
Budgetary Institutions developed under the Legislation Improvement Components were used as a
basis for a number of relevant regulatory acts developed and adopted by the MoF in 2009-2010
and determine the current budget accounting and reporting procedures.
       Furthermore, the proposals developed under the Legislation Improvement Component
were used during the preparation of draft amendments to the Budget Code on the implementation
of the program approach to budget formation and draft law on the introduction of fiscal rules in
the Russian Federation.
       The Russian translation of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS)
prepared and published in 3000 copies under the Legislation Component will be used by leading
Russian financiers, teachers and students over the years.
       The RF Government’s draft Program of Enhancing the Effectiveness of Public (State and
Municipal) Finance Management in the Period until 2018 was developed in accordance with the
Budget Message of the RF President to the RF Federal Assembly, dated 28 June 2012, On Budget
Policy in 2013-2015 following the completion of the RF Government’s Program of Enhancing
the Effectiveness of Public Spending in the Period until 2012 and the need to define a new
strategy in this field. The Program was developed in accordance with the key provisions of the
RF President’s Decree No. 596 of 7 May 2012 On Long-term State Economic Policy and the RF
President’s Decree No. 601 of 7 May 2012 On the Main Directions for Improving the Public
Management System.

       The Project contributed to the implementation of the Program of Enhancing the
Effectiveness of Public Spending in the Period until 2012 and project deliverables were used for
drafting the RF Government’s Program of Enhancing the Effectiveness of Public (State and
Municipal) Finance Management in the Period until 2018 and will be used for the
implementation of the latter.



                                                70
       Considering the above, it can be concluded that the deliverables of the Project are highly
sustainable.


      FT Assistance with the Bank’s Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR)

       The Federal Treasury in its letter No. 42-7.4-18/10.7-807 of 20 September 2012 furnished
to the IBRD materials for ICRR preparation in regard to the component implemented by the
Federal Treasury. Additional information was provided during the Bank’s Implementation
Completion Review Mission from 29 October to 2 November 2012.




                                               71
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                      72
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   •   Project Implementation Plan

   •   Project Appraisal Document for Russian Federation Treasury Development
       Project (TDP) dated May 7, 2002 (Report No: 23718-RU)

   •   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   •   Project Progress Reports.

   •   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated October 2012


*including electronic files




                                         73
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.               70°N                                 80°N                                                                                                                        80°N                                                   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                A RCT IC                                                 O CEA N
           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bering St
           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ra
                                                                          Nor wegian Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                it




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60°N
              NETH.                              NORWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ng e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ra
                              DENMARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          y
                                                                                                                B a r e n t s         Franz Josef                                                                                                                                                                      da
                                                             SWEDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                 East Siberian                                An
           GERMANY                                                                                                 S e a                    Land
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea                                                                      Anadyr
                                                                                                                                                                    Severnaya                                                               New Siberia
                                                                                                                                                                       Zemlya                                                                 Islands
                                                                                                     Murmansk              Novaya
                                      RUSSIAN                         FINLAND
                                        FED.                                                                               Zemlya
                        Kaliningrad                                                               Kola                                                                                                                       Laptev
                                                           ESTONIA                                Pen.                                         Kara          Sea                                                              Sea
                                                  LATVIA




                   POLAND
                                         LITH.




                                                                                   Karelia
                                                                                                                                                                                                            la
                                                                                                                                                                                                   insu                                                                     In
                                                                        St. Petersburg                                                                                                       Pen                                                                                 di




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kolyma
                                                            Pskov                                                                                                                   m   yr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ange
                                                                                                                                                                                Tay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  g irka
                                                                                 Petrozavodsk Arkhangel'sk
                                                                    Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                     Che
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rskiy
                                  BELARUS                                                                           Nar'yan Mar                                                                                                                                                   Ran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kolmya R
                                                                                                                                            Yamal                                                           ga                                                                             ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                        a                         wland




                                                                                                                                                                                                    n
                                                       Smolensk Tver                                                                         Pen.                                                  at                        Lo
                                                                               Vologda                                                               Gyda                                     Kh             Siberian
                                                            MOSCOWYaroslavl          Kotlas                                       Vorkuta            Pen.
                                        Bryansk Kaluga
                         UKRAINE                                                                              s.
                                                                     Kostroma                                                      Salekhard
                                         Orel                      Ivanovo                  Syktyvkar                     Ob




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Le
                                                                                                                t
                                                 Tula          Vladimir




                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             na
                                   Kursk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Magadan
                                                         Ryazan       Nizhny Novgorod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Petropavlovsk-


                                                                                                             al
                             Belgorod       Lipetsk
                                                                                   Kirov                                                                                                                Central                                                                                                                                      Kamchatskiy
                                                                                                         Ur
                                    Voronezh                Cheboksary      Yoshkar-Ola
                                                Tambov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Okhotsk
                                                                 Saransk Kazan'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea of
                                                      Penza                       Izhevsk                                                                                                           Siberian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yakutsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Range
                                                                                            Perm'                           Khanty-
            Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50
                                                          Ul'yanovsk
                                                                                                                            Mansiysk                                                                                                                                                                                          Okhotsk
                                  Rostov-
             Sea                  on-Don                R. Saratov                                                                          Wes
                                                                                                                                            We st                                                       Plateau                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dzhur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Len




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        en
                Krasnodar                                              Samara       Ufa          Yekaterinburg                                                                                                                                                              d
                   Maykop
                                                 Volgograd                                                                                                                                                                                                             Al
                             Stavropol                                                                     Tyumen                     Si
                                                                                                                                      S      rian
                                                                                                                                        i b eO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dzhug
                                                                                        Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                                                 b




                                                                                                                                                                       Ye n
                                        Elista                            Orenburg                     ol
              Gora El'brus    Cherkessk                                                             o b Kurgan
                                                                                                   T                                        Pla
                                                                                                                                            P lain




                                                                                                                                                                            i
               (5,633 m)




                                                                                                                                                                         sey
                              Nal'chik          Astrakhan r a
                                                                    l




                                                                                                                                                                                        Angara
                                                              U




                   Vladikavkaz Nazran




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                       Omsk




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Am
                   GEORGIA             Groznyy                                                                                                       Tomsk
                                          Makhachkala                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yuzhno-
                                             Sea




                                                                                                                                   Novosibirsk              Kemerovo            Krasnoyarsk                                                                                                                                                           Sakhalinsk

                    AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                       Novokuznetsk                                                                   Lake
                                         ian




                                                                                                                                       Barnaul                                                                                                                   Blagoveshchensk                                       Khabarovsk
                                                                                                                                                                        Abakan                                                     Baikal                                                       Birobidzhan
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ust' Ordynskiy
                                       sp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Chita
                                                                                                K A Z A K H S TA N
                                      Ca




                                                               UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                   Irkutsk          Ulan Ude




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    li n
                                                                                                                                                      Gorno-                                                                                   Aginskoye




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ote-A
                                                                                                                                                      Altaysk                    Kyzyl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         °N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40
                      RUSS I A N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sikh
                    FEDER AT I O N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vladivostok

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea of
                        OBLAST CENTERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                               MONGOLIA
                        FEDERAL CITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D.P.R.                                               J A PA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF
                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KOREA
                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REP.
                                                                                                                                                                0      200       400 600 Kilometers                                                                                                               OF
                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KOREA
                                                                                                               RUSSIAN
                        RAILROADS                                                                            FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33470R2
                                                                                                                                                                0           200              400                 600 Miles                                                                                                                                            °N
                        OBLAST, KRAI, REPUBLIC, AUTONOMOUS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
                        OBLAST, OR AUTONOMOUS OKRUG
MAY 2009




                        BOUNDARIES
                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     90°E                                      100°E                                        110°E                                           120°E                                                     130°E
