Do=ume  of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
(CA?2 /5-426-   5
Rpuwt No. P-3874---AG
REPORT AdhD RECOMIENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME NT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECLGTIVE DIRECtORS
FOR A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION (CSS15.0 MILLION EQUIVALEN-T)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF XADAGASCAR
FOR A
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
October 11, 1984
T-b deemeet bm a res&iMd is&SM  in  my be  u4 by rdpieats ey i the gum    o
dweUr dail dXIeds fr   I    y mmiw udewuw  be dibdusd wIIh  Wod   k __



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency U-it                      M !alagasy Francs (FXG)
US 1.00                            F'AG 560
FflG 100                           US$ 0.1785
FXG 1,000,000                      USS 1,785
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (Metric System)
1 meter (a)                     =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                -  0.62 miles
1 square meter (m2)             =  10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (ku2)        -  0.386 square miles
I bectare (ha)                  * 2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                        0.26 US gallons
I cubic meter (m3)                 264 US gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACR0N'Z4S
ASECK&          Age=ce pour la Securite de la Navigation AMrie=ne en
Afrique et a Madagascar (Agency for Security of
Aeronautic Navigation in Afr.ca and Madagascar)
BFV             BankY Fampandrosoa=a Ny Varotra (National Bank for
Commerce)
B^D             Ba=ky Ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra (National Bank for Rural
Development)
CFC             Centre de Formation de la Comptabilitg (Accou=tancy
Training Center)
CNC             Natiocal Coordination Coumittee
DGP             Direction G&Erale du Pla: (Directorate General
of Planing, Office of the Presidency)
Farita-y        Local government unit:  ( province7)
Firaisa=a       Local goverzme=t unit:  grnup of foko=tany (-districtc)
Fivondrona-a    Local government u-it:  gro.iz nf firaisana (mu-icipalityf)
FIFABE          Socigtg pour le Dgveloppement de i2 Plai-e de la Betsiboka
(Betsiboka Development Corporacion.)
JIRAMA          Jiro sy Rano Malagasy (Water and E'ectricity Authority)
SEI[AD          Societe d'Equipement Immobilier de Madagascar
(Madagascar Housing CorporatUon)
SEPT            Sociftg d'Exploitation du Porr de Toamasina (Operating
Company of Toamasina Port)
UNDP            Uzited Nations Developuent Programme
UNESCO          U:ited Nations Education and Scientific Organization
USAID           United States Age=cy for Imter=ational Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MAAGASCAR
Cyclone Rehabilitation Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Transport, Supply
and Tourism, Agency for Security of Aeronautic Navigation
in Africa and Madagascar (ASECNA), Operating Company of
Toamasina Port (SEPT), Betsiboka Development Corporation
(FIFABE), and Madagascar Rousimg Corporation (SEIMAD).
Amount:            SDR 14.8 million (USS15.0 million).
Terms:             Standard IDA terms.
RelendiM terms:  The Government would releand USS1.0 million of the
proceeds of the credit to ASECNA for part of the
rehabilitatioc of Mahajanga airport, at 10 percent
interest per annum for 20 years including 5 years of
grace. US$2.0 million would be used to make housing
credits to cyclone victims who would pay 12 percent
interest per annum for 10 years including 2 years of
grace.
Project Description:
Objectives:       The proposed project is designed to (i) contribute to the
physical and economic rehabilitation of the areas dnaged
by cyclone Kamisy (of April 9, 1984), particularly by
restoring essential facilities before the next cyclone
season; (ii) support institutional arrangements
appropriate for efficient coordination of reconstruction
efforts; and (iii) help develop measures to minimize the
potential damage from natural disasters that could occur
to these and other vulnerable areas of the country.
Comonents:         (a) Rehabilitation of Mahajanga and Antsiranana ports;
(b) Rehabilitation of Mahajanga and Antsiranana airports;
(c) Rehabilitation of major roads affected by the cyclone
(RN4, RN6, and RN8);
Thb docuent hu a resrited distibutbn and my be used by recipients only in the perfonnrmc of
thei Offcial dutis Its contents may not otherwise be dsclosed without World Bank authoration



- ii -
(d) Repairs to schools and other public buildings,
administrative offices and state owned housing;
(e) Rehabilitation of FIFABE installations and equipment
dAmAged by the cyclone 1: Marovoay;
(f) Rehabilitation of JIRAMA's damaged power facilities
in Mahajanga, Antairanana, Toamasina, Nossi-B,
Ambatoboeni, and Marovoay;
(g) 'Rousing credit to private owners for the
reconstruction of their houses damaged by the
cyclone; and
(h) Consultant services, technical assistance, and urban
planning, drainage study.
Benefits:         The project would assist in restoring economic activity
in the regions of Mahajanga and Antsiranana. In
particular, reconstruction to operational standards of
the ports of Mahajanga and Antsiranana, and
reconstruction of the Amboromalandy Dike which is
necessary to restoring traffic flow on the RN4 route
(Antananarivo-Mahajanga) and irrigation of 2,500 ha of
rice fields. The repair and restoration of about
30 schools would provide accommodation for an estimated
15,000 pupils who are either currently deprived of
adequate educational opportunities or accoimodated in
over-crowded classrooms. The replacement of airport
equipment will improve security, not only for local
traffic, but also for international traffic, since
Mahajanga Airport is an international traffic regulator.
Finally, a general benefit for the rest of the country
would be to equip Kadagascar with a framework for
handling future emergencies of this kind.
Risks:            The jroject's major risks are those which relate to the
need for timely execution and the timely availability of
funds, local and foreign.  To minimize these risks major
emphasis has been placed on centralized coordination by
the National Coordination Committee (CNC), reliance on
execution by experienced agencies and closer monitoring
mainly during the start-up period. Tn addition
commitments have been obtained from the Government
regarding the provision of counterpart funds. On the
whole, the project presents an acceptable level of risk,
considerimg the benefits which would be realized from it.



Estimated Project costs:
-(USS uilion)-
CkcE2>nent                                     Local  Foreign   Total
Ports                                              0.88      1.85     2.73
Airports                                           0.60      1.42     2.02
Roads                                              2.98     4.37      7.35
Public Buildings                                   2.96     2.19      5.15
Agriculture                                        0.17     0.43      0.60
JIRANA                                             0.78      1.38     2.16
Housing credit                                     0.80      1.20     2.00
Consultant services                                0.68     1.06      1.74
Total Base Cost                               9.85    13.90    23.75
Physical contirgencles                          1.18      1.75     2.93
Price contingencies                             0.44     0.63      1.07
Total Contingencies                           1.62     2.38     4.00
TOTAL PROJECI COST (incl. Taxes)              11.47    16.28    27.75
Fiancing Plan:
---USS million)-
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                                   0.7      14.3      15.0
Credit 663-MAG                               0.3       0.4      0.7
Credit 1002-MAG&                             0.7       1.3      2.0
Credit 1391 and SF46fAG*                     0.2       0.3      0.5
Government or Cofintnciag:  Investsets       5.0                5.0
Taxes and Duties                             4.5                4.5
Total                                   11.4      16.3      27.7
Estimated Disbursements: (USS silion)
IDA Fiscal Year     1985           1986          1987
Annual               8.0            4.0           3.0
Cumulative           8.0           12.0          15.0
Staff Appraisal Report:   None
!LaE: IBRD No. 1849l
*  Savi:igs from these credits are being utilized to start urgent road
works, repairs to school buildings, and to finance equipment and supplies
utllized by JIRAMA in the rehabilitation of electricity in the affected
areas.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECGIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. *I submit the folloving report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for SDR 14.8
million (US$15.0 million equivale-t) on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Cyclone Rehabilitation Project. The Borrower would relend US$1.0 million
of the proceeds of the credit to ASECNA for part of the rehabilitation of
Mahajanga airport at 10 percent interest per annum for 20 years including
5 years of grace. The Borrower would utilize US$2.0 million for housing
credits to cyclone victims at 12 percent interest per annum with a
repayment period of 10 years including 2 years of grace. In addition
US$3.2 million from other credits would be utilized in the respective
sectors for which those credits were granted and on the same terms and
conditions as agreed in those credits.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled -Current Economic Situation and Prospects-
dated March 20, 1983, was distributed to participants of the Madagascar
Consultative Group Meeting of April 27-29, 1983 and is available as
document MAG (83-4). An economic mission visited Madagascar in March 1984
and an updating economic report is under preparation. Country data sheets
are provided in Annex I to this report.
Background
3.        Madagascar, with a population of 9.4 million and a GNP per
capita of about US$300 in 1983, is among the poorest countries in the
world. It is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of
about 15 persons per square kilometer. Although generally well endowed
with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are considerable
regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the most
economically advanced region, has a subtroFical to temperate climate. The
South is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils. The
eastern region has a tropical climate and, although rich agriculturally,
crops are frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for
about 35 percent of GDP; about 85 percent of the population lives in rural
areas, and agricultural products account for about 80 percent of the
country's export earnings.
Economic Developments in the 1970s
4.        During the past twenty five years, Madagascar's development has
been sluggish and erratic. For about a decade following independence in
1960, the economy grew at an average annual rate of 3 percent. Agriculture



- 2 -
was responsible for much of this GDP growth while manufacturing, under
increased protection, gained in relative importance. For the period
1970-1983, however, there was, on average, virtually no growth i- real
GDP. With an average population growth of about 2.8 percent per annum, per
capita real income in 1983 was about 28 percent below its 1973 level.
5.        This slow development was true for all sectors of the economy.
Agricultural output lagged conspicuously, and yields tended to stagnate or
decline; the country became i-creasingly dependent on imports, especially
of rice, rt5 meet food requirements; and the volume of agricultural exports
virtually stagnated. Manufacturing output showed a mDdest expansion. The
sector remained heavily dependent on imported inputs, however, and operated
at low levels of capacity utilization. There was little expansion in the
country's transport network and indeed the existing transport facilities
(road and rail) were subject to increasingly serious deterioration.
6,        The poor economic performance stemmed in large measure from
inappropriate economic policies. These policies can be summArized along
two mait  themes.  First, in the beginnlg of 1972, the Government greatly
extended its control over economic activity by taking over nearly all the
larger entreprises, excluding the private sector from all commerce with the
agricultural sector, and imposing numerous controls, especially on prices
and movements of goods. Under these political and economic conditions,
prlvate sector Initiative was discouraged.  Second, the Government embarked
on a strategy which accorded high priority to the development of industry
with protective policies that neglected agriculture and, in effect,
fostered the growth of an inward-looking and sometimes uneconomic
manufacturing sector. The adverse effects of these policies were
compounded by the deterioration in the terms of trade follovimg the world
oil price increases.
7.        Through 1977, the poor growth and development performance and the
extensive institutional cha3ges which were being effected were nevertheless
accompanied by continued caiutious policies regarding the balance of
payments, public finances and external debt. The external resource gap was
kept at low levels (about 3 percent of GDP from 1970 to 1978), the overall
Government budget deficit fluctuated around 2.5 percent of GDP and recourse
to external borrowing was strictly limited. Total external public debt
(outstanding and disbursed) at end 1977 was equivalent to about 13 percent
of GDP, compared to an average of about 22 percent for low income
developing countries, and the ratio of debt service payments to export
earnings, including non-factor services, at end 1977 was only about
3 percent.
The Public Investment Boom of 1978-81 and its Impact
8.        In 1978 the Government adopted a significantly different economic
policy orientation, undertaking a large expansion in public sector
investment with greatly increased reliance on external sources for its
financing. Investment outlays increased by about 13 percent per annum
between 1978-80 and the share of investment in GDP, which had been about
14 percent since the early 1970s, rose to around 21 percent in 1979 and
1980. The increased investment resulted in increased imports and coincided



- 3 -
with virtually stagnant export earnings and a further deterioration in term
debt obligations in 1980. Foreign exchange shortages also grew
increasingly severe through 1981 and 1982, largely as a result of the
rapidly growing burden of external debt service.
9.        With the rapid expansion in external borrowing and a hardening of
average terms, Madagascar's public external debt service obligations
Increased dramatically from about US$19 million in 1977 (equivalent to
about 3 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in that year)
to about US$265 million in 1982 (equivalent to about 72 percent of exports
of goods and NFS). In 1981 and again in 1982 Madagascar sought and
obtained a rescheduling of a part of debt service obligations due. These
rescheduli-gs reduced payments due in 1981 and 1982 by over 50 percent so
that actual service payments on- external public debt made in 1982 were
equivalent to about 35 percent of export receipts.
10.       The Central Government's finances in 1978-82 clearly reflect the
investment boom and the subsequent efforts to restore equilibrium. Total
expenditures more than doubled between 1978 and 1980 and declined slightly
in 1981 and 1982, when the inflation rate was much higher. The overall
Central Government deficit swung from 4 percent of GDP in 1978 to a peak of
17 percent in 1980 and then down to 6 percent in 1982. Recurrent
expenditures contributed little to the swings since expenditures and
revenues moved roughly in line. The main cause of the changes in the
deficits was the capital budget, which more than quadrupled between 1978
and 1980 and then declined by 57 percent from 1980 to 1982. However, other
Government expenditures, mostly deferred payments and, up to 1982,
subsidies on rice, accounted for 10-12 percent of total expenditures.
Despite considerable growth in nominal terms, both revenues and recurrent
expenditures generally declined in real terms after 1980. The growth of
revenues has been greatly slowed by the deterioration of the economic
situation, although a number of measures were taken to increase taxation in
1982.
11.       The investment boom and the ensuing stabilization policies are
also reflected in the money and credit figures as well as in the rate of
inflation for the years 1978-83. Net domestic credit tripled in nominal
terms from 1978 to 1982, most of the increase being due to net government
borrowings from the Central Bank. The Government's share of domestic
credit rose from 31 percent at end 1978 to 58 percent at end 1982. The
official cost of living index for Antananarivo, Madagascar's capital and
largest city, which is likely to understate the actual price rises, showed
an 18 percent increase in 1980, about 31 percent in 1981 and 1982, and an
estimated 18 percent increase in 1983. The implicit GDP deflator shows a
parallel development: a 15 percent increase in 1980, a 25 percent increase
in 1981, a 34 percent increase in 1982, and a 22 percent increase in 1983.
12.       The balance of payments has also been affected by the investment
spending of 1978-80, but the sluggishness of exports and the problems in
reducing imports have made restoration of external equilibrium especially
difficult. The current account deficit began to rise rapidly from less
than 2 percent of GDP in 1978 to over 18 percent in 1980. Transactions
with the rest of the world were financed by a total exhaustion of reserves,
an unprecedented degree of foreign borrowing, and by incurring substantial



- 4 -
arrears on external payments obligations. The Government began to take
some measures to restore equilibrium in 1981 and took stronger actions in
1982, notably by tightly restricting imports and by negotiating
arrangements with the IMF and the Paris Club.  It succeeded in reducing the
overall deficit to FMG 31.4 billion (US$90 million) in 1982, thanks to the
agreements reached with the IMP and the Paris Club as well as some
exceptional balance of payments financing, but it failed to restore
equilibrium in the current account, whose deficit in 1982 was still
US$350 million (9.5 percent of GDP).
13.       The main reason for the failure to improve the current account
was that capital goods imports, which were tied to the existing financing
arrangements and on-going projects, continued at very high levels through
1981 and 1982. The total volume of imports grew by 33 percent in this
period, and import price increases were also substantial, increasing at
roughly the same rate. The foreign exchange shortages that began in 1980
and grew much worse in 1981-82 obliged the Government to restrict imports
where it could. The categories of raw materials and spare parts and of
non-food consumer goods suffered most, though the Government ensured that
energy imports covered essential needs. Food imports increased because of
bad weather, including serious floods, that reduced the rice harvests. The
sluggish export performance aggravated difficulties. During 1978-1982 the
volume of exports stagnated. Coffee, the main export, was seriously
affected by the international market situation, first by a drop in prices
in 1981 and then by the 100 quota restrictions.
Recent Developments
14.       Since 1979 the drop in industrial production, including mining,
has been especially sharp. Production at end 1982 had dropped to
70 percent of the level in 1979, lower than in any year of the 1970s.
Output in every branch of production was lower in 1982 than in 1979. A
particularly serious aspect was that the output of some basic consumption
items (soap, shoes, matches, batteries) had dropped by well over one half
since 1979. Although final data for 1983 are not yet available, it appears
that there has been a modest pick-up in manufacturing activity.
15.       The performance of the agricultural sector since 1979 was less
disappointing than in the immediately preceding years, but was nevertheless
unsatisfactory. Output grew by 7 percent in 1979, fell by 1.5 percent in
1981 and continued to grow by 2.5 percent per year in 1982 and 1983. In
addition to poor weather, there have been shortages of inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and improved varieties of seeds. Rice production
did not increase between 1979 and 1982 but most export crops had somewhat
higher outputs in 1982 than in 1979. In the case of coffee the increase
was only about 2.5 percent, but output reached the highest level so far
obtained. Clove production almost tripled between 1979 and 1980 and
declined slightly thereafter. Vanilla also picked up from a low level in
1979 and almost doubled by 1982. These three crops accounted for over
70 percent of merchandise exports.
16.       The Malagasy Franc was pegged to the French Franc until April
1982 when it became pegged to a basket of ten currencies weighted on the
basis of Madagascar's external trade during 1973-1980. Following movements



- 5 -
in the -weighted basket- the Central Bank of Madagascar adjusts the
Malagasy franc exchange rate on a daily basis. Furthermore since the
adoption of the ten currency basket pegging there have been a number of
discrete devaluations of the Malagasy franc. As a result the nominal trade
weighted exchange rate for the Malagasy franc has depreciated by about
40 percent between the 1st quarter of 1982 and June 1984 (using 1978 as the
base). In real terms (i.e. after adjusting for differing relative price
movements between Madagascar and its main trading partners) the effective
exchange rate has depreciated by about 23 percent between the 1st quarter
1982 and June 1984. In June 1984 the real effective exchange rate of the
Malagasy Franc was therefore, estimated to be about 5 percent below its
level in 1978, i.e. before the upsurge in external borrowing and the
deterioration on external account.
17.       Over the last couple of years, the Government has shown its
willingness to take a number of significant stabilization and recovery
policy measures. The measures represent a major reversal in the thrust of
policies and, therefore, were politically very difficult. The fact that
the Government has been willing to undertake them shows that a significant
reassessment has taken place. The Malagasy Government's stabilization and
recovery efforts have been supported by successive IMF stand-by
arrangements.  The latest arrangement, in addition to establishing
performance targets for external borrowing, domestic credit, reduction in
external arrears and maintenance of exchange rate adjustment, requires
increases in the prices of major agricultural products, further measures to
liberalize the marketing of these products and progress towards a
market-determined system of interest rates. Madagascar has met the June
1984 IMF stand-by target.
PART 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
18.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$428.05 million
(including US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans total
US$32.57 million. Since 1975, about 40 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport, 28 percent for agriculture, 15 percent for electric
power and petroleum, 6 percent for industry and water, 4 percent for
technical assistance, 4 percent for education and 3 percent for urban
development. IFC has three investments in Madagascar in textiles, footwear
and fisheries. The first investment was made in 1977 when IFC participated
in financing the SOTERA textile mill. Recently SOTEMA encountered problems
of cotton allocation, and transferring payments on its loan to IFC. But
these problems appear to have been satisfactorily resolved. Last year IFC
made its third investment in the Nossi-Be fisheries project. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of March 31, 1984.
19.       Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated in the
key areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure),
agriculture and energy. In infrastructure, six Credits have provided for
the construction of all-weather highway links between the island's
different regions and for road maintenance and road rehabilitation. There



- 6 -
have been projects to improve Madagascar's main port of Toamasina, and to
support the railway's modernization efforts. Urban infrastructure
development has benefited from a water supply and sanitation project
(US$20.5 million) for the capital city of Antananarivo which was signed in
May 1980. In the social sectors, education has been the major recipient of
Bank assistance with two credits totaling US$18.8 million. In addition,
studies for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency have led to preparation of an urban development project
(US$12.8 million) approved in FY 1984. A first US$5 million DFC credit was
made to the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI) in 1980. In
addition, a credit of SDR 9.4 million for an accounting and audit project
was made in June 1981.
20.       Bank Group lending for agriculture has included three livestock
development projects, four irrigation projects, two forestry projects, an
agricultural credit project and a cotton project. Technical assistance
support is also being provided under two free-standing projects, one to
study investment alternatives in the Plain of Antananarivo area, and the
other designed to strengthen institutional development of key sector
institutions and to support agricultural policy reform. In addition, the
Bank appraised and is supervising a rice intensification project for IFAD.
21.       Energy projects have received growing Bank Group attention.  IDA
participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982. A US$12.5 million project for petroleum exploration promotion is
supporting the Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of
hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy sector. A heavy oil
exploration project (Tsimiroro), in the amount of SDR 10.7 million was
approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1982. Both projects
are proceeding well.
22.       The program for Madagascar is being broadened to include
sectorial lending in support of current imports of a priority nature. A
first project for industrial imports is well advanced and a second project,
similar in design but for agriculture, is under preparation. Both projects
are geared to relatively extensive commitments by the Government to policy
reform - both at sectoral and at the macro-economic levels. In addition
projects for a broad program of irrigation and ports/railways
rehabilitation are at advanced stages of preparation. Both projects would
involve substantial cofinancing. Further lending in the next two or three
years is also foreseen for technical assistance, vocational education and
energy development (petroleum and fuelwood).
23.       In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
Credits. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of
beneficiary agencies. Recent problems have centered on difficulties linked
to the country's economic crisis, notably the acute shortage of foreign
exchange and budget funds and institutional problems related above all to
the parastatal system. Nevertheless, the Fourth Highway Credit is
completed and construction under the Fifth Highway Credit is well advanced
Disbursement of the Second railway credit was suspended on June 25, 1982
pending Government action to correct major deficiencies affecting the



railway's finances. They were resumed in December 1982 after the
Government had implemented a satisfactory financial recovery program and
have been virtually completed. More recently, difficulties with covenanted
financial rates of return in the Water/Sanitation Credit have resulted in
an action program to improve the financial management of the state water
and power company, JIRAMA. Due to difficulties occasioned by a poor choice
of consultants and disorganized municipal finances, the sanitation
component of the Credit has been very slow in starting.
24.       Experience with project implementation in agriculture has been
mixed, reflecting difficulties in the agriculture sector in general over
the last few years. Performance under irrigation projects (for cotton and
rice) has been particularly disappointing, due to the following major
factors: (i) the weakness of the parastatal managing institutions; (ii)
the poor incentive structure, both at scheme level and in the official
pricing systems; and (iii) inadequate arrangements for maintenance and cost
recovery on the schemes. Performance in the livestock and forestry sectors
has generally been satisfactory with both implementing agencies (FAFIFAMA
and FANALAMANGA, respectively) developing into effective institutions with
technically competent and dedicated management. Experience with the
agriculture technical assistance project has been positive, although
serious delays in approving contracts have been encountered. In general,
most projects have been adversely affected by the worsening economic
situation and particularly by shortages of foreign exchange.
25.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four Credits have
been completed and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. The
Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976 on the first Lac Alaotra Project
concluded that the project was generally successful. However, the Impact
Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981 concluded that earlier
assessments of project performance had been over-optimistic, and that the
actual economic rate of return was probably negative. The Audit Report
No. 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded
that the project had contributed little to Madagascar. The Audit Report
No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third Highway Project was well
justified and had a good rate of return despite substantial cost overruns.
Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical objectives of
the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved but pointed out that
the institutional objective was not accomplished during project
implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority.
PART III - CYCLONE KAMISY AND THE REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Cyclone Damage and the Main Affected Zones
26.       Madagascar has been hit during the past cyclone season, December
1983 to April 1984, by some ten cyclones of which the last, cyclone Kamisy,
which hit the Island on April 9-13 was particularly destructive. Kamisy
first hit the City of Antsiranana on April 9, then Mahajanga on April 11
before crossing the Island from West to East to Toamasina. Due to the
extreme violence of the winds (more than 250Km/h) and very heavy rainfalls,



severe damage was caused I= the provi=ces of Antsira=ana and Mahajanga to
ports, airports, roads, buildings, irrigation schemes and the power
=etwork.
27.       The province (Faritany) of Anmtsiranana (Diego Suarez) is located
at the extreme -orth of Kadagascar. Its capital city, Antsiranana, with a
population of 70,000, Is one of the four maim ports of the country. It is
also Madagascar's main naval facility.
28.       The province (Faritany) of Mahajanga ls located on the northwest
coast of the island. Mahajanga City lies on the Mozambique Channel. at the
estuary of the Betsiboka River. The port of Mahajanga is the second main
port of Madgascar, carryitg 11 percent of the country's total traffic,
both international and coastal. Its capacity, however, is limited as the
port's use is restricted by the condition of the road to Antananarivo CRN4)
and because of draft restrictions. 1* Mahajanga province there Is major
agricultural infrastructure such as the irrigatioc zone around Marovoay
(100km south of Mahajanga), which is the country's second most important
rice surplus area after Lac Alaotra and the main cotton producing zones of
Madagas3car which support an important textile isdustry.
Rehabilitation Costs
29.       Damage to infrastructure, crops and economic activity caused by
cyclone KmiLsy was estimated at up to USS250 million (para. 37). The most
urgent rehabilitation needs are In the two hardest hit areas, lahajanga and
Antsira3asa. Only the cost of these urgent rehabilitation works, included
in this project, have bee- estimated. Estimates of damage to buildings,
housing and agricultural installations is only partially available.
30.       Damage to the transportation network includes the ports and
airports of Antsiranana and Mahajanga, and the road netwrrk of Mahajanga
and Antsiranana Provinces, with the most urgent rehabilitation and repair
costs estimated at about US$10.0 million. Damage by sector and tI'a related
rehabilitation and repair costs are as follows: Ci) Ports - Botl the ports
of Antsiranama and Mahajanga sustained beavy damage to harves, sheds and
other buildimgs; vital equipment such as tugboats, beacons, navigational
aids, were sunk or badly damaged. Rehabilitation and repair costs were
estimated to be about US$2.5 million; (il) Airports - Traffic has been
restored in precarious conditioa and substantial repair works are required
to both Antsiranana and Mahajanga freight terminals, sheds, technical,
meteorological and staff housimg buildings which lost part or all of their
roofs. The navigational aids and meteorological equipment were destroyed
and msat be replaced. Correspondimg costs are estimated to be about
US$1.5 million; and (iii) Roads - The Cyclone ve:,* heavily affected the
road network of Mahajanga and Antstranana Provinces, causing considerable
damage on RN4, 1N6 and RN8 and interrupting traffic for about two weeks.
Major repair works are needed urgently, mainly on the RN4 stretch along
Lake Amboromalandy where a flood-gate bridge has been washed away and a
dike damaged along its entire length. Repair works are estimated to cost
around US$6.0 million;



- 9 -
31.       In both towns of Antananarivo and Mahajanga. urban Infrastructure
ws badly hit. Nmerous public boLldings lost part or all of their roofs.
The cost of damage to schools, hospitals, administrative offices and State
ownd housine is estimated for those two towns at around USS5 million. The
damage to electric power systems was mai:ly to the medium voltage and lo
voltage networks of seven towns. In addition, numerous buildi3gs were
damaged: thermal power plants at Mahajanga, offices at Marovoay and
Antananarivo. and various buildings at Antsiranana. The cost of repair
works are estimated to be about USS2 minlion.
32.       Tn agriculture, the damage Involved primarily resulted from the
rupturing of dikes leadig to floodlng of villages and the deposit of sand
on fields and Iu irrlgation canals , washouts in bank  of Canals,
deterioration of bighways and access roads, and damage to various feeder
roads and access roads In additiLon to damage to buildigs. Most of this
damage occured In the Marovoay region, a major rice producing area near
Mahajanga, whose production and trade is largely handled by the
agricultural parastatal FIFABE. The cost of infrastructure damage caused
to FIFABE In the Marovoay region is estimated at over USS3 million. t:
addition followizg the torrential rains and the breaches in the banks of
the Betsiboka and the other rivers about 70 percent (7.000 hectares) of the
area devoted to cotton cultivation in the Mahajanga region was flooded.
The loss of cotton under cultivation and future effects on production have
not been estimated.
MaWKLM  and Funding Relief and Rehabilitation
33.       The Immediate Relief Effort.  The emergency relief effort
imediately after the cyclone was eificiently handled by the Conseil
National de Secours (CNS), chairea by the Minister of Tnterior, and other
Government agencies. Removal of debris started immedlately and most of the
essential water supply and power networks were restored to operating
condition within days. The response of the Government (through the CNS),
and of the affected communitles, professional associations and
international relief organiszations was immediate and efficient, providing
medicine, food and tents. The financial resources of the CNS were,
however, extremely limited (about FMG 140 million in May 1984) and totally
inadequate to cope with the disaster.
34.       International Support. In the weeks after the cyclone, steps
were taken to prepare for the rehabilitation program. All Government
agencies were asked to prepare documents establishing the extent of damage
and an approximate cost of rehabilitation; an appeal for assistance war
launched to f-reign governments and aid agencies. At the time of
appraisal, their responses were as follows:
(a) A U.N. mission visited Madagascar for the purpose of
assessing the damage and making recommendations for the
rehabilitation program. UNDP made available US$60,000 whilch
have been used for import of construction materials;
(b) KFW is financing major rehabililtation projects for the
FIFABE irrigation system, already started;



- 10 -
(c) The African Development Bank (AfDB) has expressed interest
in financing the complete rehabilitation of the FIFABE
irrigation system and of the RN6 between RN4 junction and
A_tsohihy;
(d) The European Development Fund (FED) provided tents
(USS280.000), 1,750 tons of rice and construction materials
(USS280,000). They are ready to finance the complete
rehabilitation of the Vohemar-Ambilobe road and to envisage
a contribution to the Namakhia Bridge reconstruction (on the
Hahavavy River to the West of Mahajanga);
(e) The CaIsse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
(France) was prepared to finance rehabilitatios of damaged
dikes of HASYMA (cotton fields) with available counterpart
funds;
(f) The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) (France) intend  to
finance detailed engineering and supervision for
rehabilitation of the Ports of Mahajanga asd Antsiranana and
to contributs building materials for certain educational
buildings;
(g) USAID has agreed to finance the importation of construction
materials for rehabilitation of housing; and
(h) UNESCD has selected 5 subprojects totalling US$2.7 million:
gi) construction materials for 220 school buildings in the
Faritany of Mahajanga, Antsiranana and Toamasina; (ii)
5,000 school desks and other furniture; (iii) equipment for
a technical high school in Mahajanga; (iv) 100 tool kits
for villages to rebuild schools; and (v) assistance of an
architect to design cyclone resistant prototype educational
buildings.
Bank Experience in Reconstruction Projects
35.       In recent years, the Bank has participated in a limited number
of rehabilitation projects following earthquakes, cyclones and civil
wars. The proposed project takes into consideration the lessons learned
from these previous operations by: (a) limiting project scope and
rehabilitation targets; (b) shorte-ing the implementation period; (c)
streamlining project design and administrative procedures; and (d)
requesting from the Government the establishment of a National Coordination
Committee.
PART IV. THE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Background
36.       On April 16, 1984 President Ratsiraka telexed the Bank tLat
cyclone Kamisy had killed some 50 persons in the north of Madagascar, left
70,000 persons homeless and caused damage to infrastructure, crops and



- 1i -
economic activlty estimated at up to USS250 million. In reply to the
President's appeal for Bank assistance an appraisal mission visited
Madagascar from May 25 to June 5, 1984, to assess the damage to
infrastructure and assist the Government in preparing an outline for the
reconstruction program and a framework for the proposed project, including
inastitutioal arrangements. Negotiations vere beld in Washington from
September 21 to 24, 1984. The Malagasy delegation was led by Mr. Rem&
Rasata Rainiketamanga, President of CNC. No Staff Appraisal Report has
been prepared.
Approach, Objectives a-d Rationale
37.       The proposed credit would finance urgent works in priority
sectors, thus providing al initial impetus to the reconstruction effort.
This approach would support a coherent rehabilitation process and provide a
foundation for the restoration of economic activities. The project would
also assist the Government in handling the rehabilitation management,
planning and financing issues steiming from the destruction caused by the
cyclone. The project wa defined by selecting critical items wbich
encompass the most e .atial and urgent investments necessary for the
reconstruction of shelter and key facilities.  Other contributions to the
rehabilitation program, such as mentioned in para. 34 above, will
complement and will not overlap with the proposed project. The proposed
project is expected to be completed in two years.
38.       The IDA contribution to the overall rehabilitation program would
alm at:  (a) contributig to the physical and economic rehabilitation of
the areas damaed by the cyclone and particularly by restoring essential
facilities before the next cyclone season (January-April 1985); (b)
supporting a streamlined institutional arrangemet appropriate for
efficient coordination; and (c) helping de7elop measures that could be
applied to minimize potential damnage from natural disasters in these and
other vulnerable areas of the country. The project components were
selected on the basis of: (a) their priority as assessed by the Government
and the Bank; (b) the necessity of immediate restoration of some
activities; (c) their location in areas which would permit appropriate
execution and supervision; and (d) the absence of other finacing.
39.       Specifically, the objectives of the project are:  (a) to restore
the ports of Mahajanga and Antsiranana, to a minimum operational level; (b)
to restore the airports of Mahajanga and Antsirarzna in order to maintain
air traffic safety; (c) to rehabilitate sections of the roads RN4, RN6, and
RN8; (d) to repair the public buildings of Mabajanga and Antairanana and to
prepare a program based on an urban and drainage study for improvement of
certain wards of Mahajanga in which there are unsanitary conditions; (e) to
help FIFABE (the Island's second largest rice producer) maintain its
production by reconstruction of the Amboromalandy Dike which protects the
rice fields and by replacing lost transport equipment; complementary
investments would be undertaken by AfDB and KFW to rehabilitate the FIFABE
Irrigation system; (f) to repair the power plants and networks; and (g) to
make housing credits available to home owners to assist them in repairing
their houses. All these components are located in the provinces of
Hahajanga and Antsiranana.



- 12 -
Institutional Framework
40.       For the rehabilitation effort, the ministries concerned are
mainly Public Works, Agriculture and Transport. At the request of the
Bank, the Minister of Finance has established, in the ministry of Public
Works, a National Coordination Committee (CNC) composed of full time
representatives of all ministries concerned. This Committee is headed by
an advisor to the Minister of Finance. He is assisted by two experts to be
financed under the project. The principal role of the Coordination
Committee in the proposed project is to plan and coordinate with the
executi=g agencies the preparation and implementation of sub-projects and
to monitor their execution. The CNC would be responsible for verifying
that sub-projects are prepared and implemented in accordance with the
requirements of the Bank, including preparation of bid documents aad
contract award. The CNC would approve reimbursement of project
expenditures by reviewing the works performed and authorizing payments from
the Special Project Account. The CNC would also represent the Borrower for
_he purpose of loan disbursements.
41.       Under the coordination of the CNC, the implementing agencies
would be the existing institutions responsible for each sector: (a) the
Ministry of Public Works for the ports (through SEPT), civil works for the
airports, the roads and public buildings, and the urban drainage study for
Mahajanga (through SEIMAD); (b) ASECNA for airport equipment (this agency
is operating the Mahajanga airport); (c) the Hinistry of Education for the
educational buildings financed by Credit 663-MAG; (d) FIFABE for the
agriculture component; (e) JIRAMA for the power networks, to be financed by
Credit 1002-MAG; and (f) BTI and BFV for the housing credit (administration
of housing loans , recovery of loan charges) and SEIMAD for reconstruction
supervision.
42.       The Government would enter with ASECNA into a subsidiary loan
agreement for the Mahajanga airport equipment which would be operated by
ASECNA and into a -contrat particulier (special implementation agreement)
for the rest of the airport component. The Government would also enter
into implementation agreements (-conve-tions de travail-) with SEPT, SEIMAD
and FIFABE. For the housing credit, the Goverment would use the services
of two banks, BIM and BFV, as intermediaries. It would enter into
subsidiary agreements with them.
Project Description
43.       The proposed rehabilitation project would consist of components
in the following areas:
(a) Ports
(i) Mahajanga: rehabilitation of Vuilleman and Barriquand
Wharves, repair of offices, housing and warehouses, repair
or replacement of port equipment (navigational aids,
launches, tugs and spare parts); and (ii) Antsiranana:
rehabilitation of the old and new wharves, restoration of
buildings and housing, and replacement or repair of port
equipment (launches, tugs, navigational aids, and spare
parts);



- 13 -
(b)  Airports
(i) Mahajanga: Repair of air terminal, technical
facilities, control tower, staff residences and hangcr;
replacement of equipment (radio beacons, pylons, antennas,
1 GIF receiver, IVOR/DKE station and 2 power units); (ii)
Antsiranana: Repair of air terminal, technical facilities
under construction, hangar and quarters; replacement or
repair of equipment (1 VOR radio transmitter, pylons and
antennae, landing aids, generating set and fire engine); and
(iii) restoration of Mahajanga and Antsiranana
meteorological stations including repair of technical
buildings and quarters, replacement or repair of various
measuring instruments and repair of communication, telex and
telepho=e equipment.
(c)  Roads
(i) Rehabilitation of Amboromalandy Dike, bridge and
spillway on RN4; (ii) reconstruction of the 12 km road
linking Marovoay to the RN4 (RN8); and (iii) repair work on
LN6 between Ambondromany, Port Bergg and Ambanja.
Cd)  Public Buildings
C) Repair of educational buildings (about 15 schools in
Mahajanga and 15 in Antsiranana); and (ii) repair of other
public buildings, administrative offices and public housing
(about     20 buildings in Mahajanga and 16 buildings in
Antsiranana).
Ce)  Agriculture
(i) Restoration of the FIFABE fleet by purchasing one tug
and two barges; (ii) re-establishment of FIFABE spare parts
stock (spare parts for diggers, pumps and power units); and
(iii) repair of 15 FIFABE buildings at Marovoay and
Mahajanga.
(f)  JIRAMA
(i) Rehabilitation of power networks and plants in
Mahajanga, Antsiranana, Toamasina, Nossi-Bg, Ambato-Boeni
and Marovoay; (ii) repairs to various buildi-gs in
Mahajanga, Antsiranana, Antananarivo, and other sectors; and
(iii) re-establishment of JIRAMA vehicle spare parts stock.
(To be financed under Credit 1002-MAG).
(g)  Housing Credit.  Credit to be made available through Bf1
and BFV to private owners for the reconstruction of their
houses, provided the damage was caused by the cyclone; the
repayment period would be 10 years with two years of grace
and an interest rate of 12 percent per annum, with maximum
amount of FMG 1.5 million. The interest rate of 12 percent



- 14 -
per annzm is belov the prevailing bank lending rates In
Madagascar which vary between 15 and 20 percent (the rate of
general price Increase in the economy for 1984 is estimated
at 16 percent). A monthly income below !MG 70,000 would be
required for eligibility.
(h) Consultant Services
(i) Urban planning, housing and drainage study for the
low-income neighborhoods of Mahajanga: Amboboka, Tsararano,
Tsaramandroso and Abattoirs; (ii) two experts assisting the
National Coordination Committee; and (iii) assistance in
supervising program execution.
The project provides the Government with the opportuaity to reinforce its
procedures for coping with natural disasters. For this reason the National
Coordination Committee has been established and is being provided with
technical assistance. Throughout project execution we will assist the
Government in adapting the functioning of this committee so that it can be
a model for coping with future emergencies. The Government program
includes studies to provide techbical solutions for low cost cyclone
resistant construction and the preparation of sub-projects to protect
low-lying urban areas that are subject to flooding.
Project Costs
44*       The total cost of the project, including taxes, is estimated at
US$27.7 million. Of the total cost of the project, 59 percent or
US$16.3 million is estimated to be foreign exchange, as shown in the
following table, and isn Annex 4:
USS Million                  K
Local Foreign Total        Total Cost.
Ports                            0.88   1.85   2.73              9.8
Airports                         0.60   1.42   2.02              7.3
Roads                            2.98   4.37   7.35             26.5
Public Buildings                 2.96   2.19   5.15             18.6
Agriculture                      0.17   0.43   0.60              2.2
JIRAMA                           0.78   1.38   2.16              7.8
Housing Credit                   0.80   1.20   2.00              7.2
Consultant Services              0.68   1.06   1.74              6.3
Total Base Costs                 9.85  13.90  23.75             85.6
Physical Contingencies            1.18   1.75   2.93            10.6
Price Contingencies              0.44   0.63   1.07              3.8
TOTAL1/                    11.47  16.28  27.75           100.0
1/ Goods, works and services procured under the project will be subject to
taxation, the total cost includes custom duties and internal taxes
amounting to US$4.5 million (16 percent). Baseline costs are expressed
in June 1984 prices.



- 15 -
45.       The cost breakdow- by major categories is as follows:
USS million
(a)  civil works                          15.2
(b)  equipment                             4.8
(c)  housing credit                        2.0
(d)  consultants services                  1.7
(e)  contingencies                         4.0
Total                            27.7
This cost includes refinancing of the disbursed amount of a= IDA Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1.0 million which was approved in July
1984 for project preparation, for recruitment of consultants for the
National Coordination Committee (CNC) and for starting some repairs which
should be done before the next rainy season.
46.       Physical contingencies have bee= estimated at 15 percent for
civil works and equipment. No physical contingencies were allowed for
tech_ical assistance, studies or housing credit. Price contingencies on
the local and foreign components were based on anticipated international
inflation of 3.5 percent for 1984, 8 percent for 1985 and 9 percent
thereafter. The resulting price escalation factor represents 3.8 percent
of total costs. A more detailed breakdown is provided in Annex 4.
Project Financing
47.       In addition to the proposed IDA credit of US$15.0 million, three
on-going projects would contribute funds towards certain urgent
rehabilitation needs i- their respective sectors: (a) the Second Education
Project (Credit 663-MAG) has a remaining balance of US$700,000 after
completion of the project; these funds would be used for emergency school
repairs; (b) US$2.0 million from the Water and Sanitation project (Credit
1002-XAG) would be used for rehabilitation of JIRAlA's facilities, and for
the urban and drainage study of Mahajanga which Is necessary for proper
rehabilitation; and (c) the Sixth Highway Project (credits 1391-AG and
SF4-MAG) are being used to start urgent works which are expected to result
in payments estimated at US$0.5 million before approval of this credit.
48.       This drawing of funds from other projects will not affect the
respective projects because (a) credit 663-NAG would otherwise have been
closed at the end of 1984 with an undisbursed balance of US$700,000; (b)
credit 1002-HAG has a remaining balance of about US$16.0 million which
could not be fully utilized due to delays in project execution and to
savings resulting from dollar appreciation; and (c) only small amounts
would be utilized from credits 1391 and SF4 - MAG to start the road works
as the new credit is expected to take over the disbursements for road works
after January 1, 1985. Appropriate amendments have already been made to
the Second Education credit and minor amendments are being made to the
other two credits to permit disbursement from them.



- 16 -
49.       Total IDA assistance would amou=t to US$18.2 million.  The table
below summarizes the f inancing plan:
USS million
Local Foreign Total
Proposed IDA Credit                              0.7    14.3    15.0
Credit 663-KAG (2nd Education Pr.)               0.3     0.4     0.7
Credit 1002-MAG (Water & Sanitation Pr.)         0.7     1.3     2.0
Credits 1391 and SF4-HAG (Sixth Highways Pr.)  0.2       0.3     0.5
Government or Cofinancing:  Investments          5.0             5.0
Duties and Taxes                                 4.5             4.5
Total Financing Required                   11.4    16.3    27.7
Project Implementation and Monitoring
50.       Those parts of the reconstruction program included in the project
are expected to be completed within two and a half years. This period is
sufficient to execute the most urge=t investments necessary for the full
restoration of economic activity i- the affected areas. In fact, most of
this project would be completed within one year. A project implementation
schedule is given in Annex 5. The implementing agencies (para. 41) have
the capacity to execute the project quickly. They have experience with
Bank projects and would be helped by consultants in the field and by the
National Coordination Committee (CNC). As part of its coordinating role
CNC would be responsible for review and approval of all documents before
submission to the Association. Local coordination and supervision of the
project would be performed by CNC with the help of consultants retained by
the Ministry of Public Works and financed by the proposed credit.
Implementation agreements, subsidiary agreements, subsidiary loan
agreement and Contrat Particulier- between CNC and the executing agencies
would define responsabilities for project execution (para. 42). Their
signatures would be conditions of credit effectiveness (Draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)).
Procurement
51.       Due to the availability of funds under existing credits and the
PPF, the CaC has been able to carry out project design work and preparation
of bid documents. One expert has been recruited for CNC and another one
for the Ministry of Public Works. The consultants of the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects are in the field and have completed design studies. The
works for the roads and the public buildings have been started in August
1984.
52.       The table on the following page indicates the planned procurement
procedures and respective amounts. This distribution may be subject to
some revision as the sub-projects and respective implementation
arrangements are developed in detail.



- 17 -
Procurement Arrangements
Not          Total
Project Element              LCBaI    Otherbi   Applicable         Cost
Civil Works                  11.00      4.70         -            15.70
(7.70)    (3.30)        -           (11.00)
Equipment                     2.00      1.90         -             3.90
(2.00)    (1.90)                     (3.90)
Housing Credit                -         -           (2.00)        (2.00)
Consulting Services           -         1.60         -             1.60
TOTAL             13.00       8.20         2.00         23.20
(9.70)    (6.50)       (2.00)       (18.20)
Notes  -  Cost figures shown in this table include contingencies and are
rounded.
-  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that would be
financed by IDA.
a/ Local unrestricted bidding (Appel d'Offres ouvert local).
b/  Force account, direct negotiatio=, amendments to contracts already
signed, direct purchase and hiring of consultants.
53.       Taking into account the necessity to expedite procurement, local
uarestricted bidding procedures acceptable to IDA in which foreign firms
are eligible to participate would be used for civil works. Road works
would be carried out on the basis of amendments acceptable to IDA made to
contracts for works being executed under the Fifth and Sixth Highway
Projects (credits 938-MAG, 1391-MAG and SF4-MAG) awarded on ICB basis. All
equipment would be purchased on the basis of LCB acceptable to IDA or by
local shopping with at least three price quotations (if the expected price
is below US$100,000), except technical equipment for airports which,
because of standardization, would be purchased by direct contracting.
54.       The following measures would be applied to streamline the
procurement process as it relates to this project: (a) submissions from
bidders would be reviewed by the National Coordination Committee which
should issue a bid evaluation report within ten days; (b) the executing
agencies would react to a bid evaluation report by issuing a decision
within ten days of its receipt; (c) the Central Tender Comission would
render its opinion on this decision within five days of its receipt; (d)
all works contracts over US$1,000,000 each and equipment contracts over
US$500,000 each would be subject to prior IDA review. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post-award review; and (e) other procedures
not routine in Madagascar but which have been used in Bank-supported
projects, such as public bid openings and requirement of a performance bond
or Bank guarantee, would also be applied.
Disbursements
55.       Retroactive financing of up to US$2.25 million (15 percent of the
credit amount) would cover expenditures made after July 1, 1984, for items
urgently needed to start the reconstruction effort. The Bank would



- 18 -
disburse 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 65 percent of local
expenditures for equipment, 65 percent of civil works net of taxes and
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures
for consultant services. The schedule of estimated disbursements given in
the Credit and Project Summary is based on a two and a half year
implementation period (see Annex 5).
56.       All disbursements would be fully documented and prepared by CNC.
Because of its growing familiarity with the Bank portfolio in Madagascar,
the Treasury should be able to transmit requests to IDA without undue
delay. The resident mission is alsc. expected to help in this regard.
57.       To ensure prompt availability of funds for the project, a
separate Special Account (revolving fund) would be established in the
Central Bank, with an initial deposit by IDA of USS3.0 million. The
Special Account opening balance was calculated as the equivalent of three
months of IDA disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed credit plus
20 percent.  The Borrower would also open in its Central Bank a Project
Advance Account with an initial deposit of FMG 1 billion. At the beginning
of each quarter, the account would be replenished up to this amount.
Establishment of these Accounts would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Draft Development Credit Agreetment, Section 6.01 (b)).
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
58.       CNC would maintain individual accounts which would record each
sub-project of the rehabilitation program. Annually, the CNC would provide
the Bank with accounts and financial statements including the opinion of an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Also, on an annual basis, the CNC
would supply the Bank with a copy of the audit of the Special Account
including the opinion of the auditor.
59.       CNC would also be responsible for preparation of quarterly
progress reports to be addressed to the Association. The regular reporting
of project progress to be provided by CNC on a quarterly basis would
consist of the following: (a) implementation schedules by component; (b)
disbursements during the preceding quarter and cumulative, with a breakdown
for each sub-project; (c) documentation attested by the executing agency;
and (d) a qualitative description of progress in the overall rehabilitation
program and in the IDA supported project. In addition to this quarterly
progress report CNC would monthly send to the Association, by telex, a very
short report giving the status of each component, the contracts signed with
their amounts, the problems to be resolved and the solution recommended. A
Project Completion Report would be prepared by CNC and sent to IDA within
six months of the close of disbursements.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The benefits of this project are related to the reconstruction of
infrastructure which has been destroyed or damaged by the cyclone. This
reconstruction is needed as quickly as possible to restore economic
activity in the regions of Mahajanga and Antsiranana. In particular, the
reconstruction of the Amboromalandy Dike is required to restore the traffic



- 19 -
on the RN4 (Antananarivo-Mahajanga) and irrigation of 2,500 ha of rice
fields. The repair and restoration of about 30 schools would provide
accommodation for an estimated 15,000 pupils who are either currently
deprived of adequate educational opportunity or accommodated in
over-crowded classrooms. The replacement of airport equipment will improve
the security, not only for local traffic, but also for international
traffic, since Mahajanga Airport handles international traffic in the
region. Finally, a general benefit for the rest of the country would be to
equip Madagascar with a framework for handling future emergencies of this
kind. This would be achieved through the institutional
framework established for the project (paras. 40 and 41); the National
Coordination Committee would be maintained with experienced staff. In the
preparation of the PCR the effectiveness of this approach in responding to
similar emergencies in the future would be assessed. Moreover,
rehabilitation works financed under this project would be designed on the
basis of methods for reducing vulnerability of buildings.
61.       The foreseeable risks in this project are principally those which
relate to the need for timely execution and the timely availability of
funds, local and foreign. CMC will have to prove its ability to prepare,
coordinate and execute sub-projects in a timely manner, but this risk will
be reduced by the recruitment of two experts financed by the proposed
credit. There is also a risk of delays in the procurement process. This
risk has been taken into consideration in the scaling and phasing of the
project, its reliance on components to be executed by experienced agencies
(Ministry of Public Works, ASECNA, etc.) and closer monitoring and
supervision. The last risk concerns the timely availability of funds and
the start up support necessary for the rehabilitation. Bank experienem in
other reconstruction projects strongly suggests the need for streamlined
disbursement procedures and close monitoring in the start-up period. The
commitments which would be obtained from the Government regarding the
provision of counterpart funds (Draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.01 (a)), special procedures put into place to speed up the procurement
process (para. 53), the retroactive financing proposed for the IDA credit
and frequent supervision missions are seen as a means of supporting the
start-up process.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
63.       Special conditions to the Credit are listed in Section III of
Annex 3 to this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit are: (a) the establishment at the Central Bank of the
Special Account and of the Project Advance Account; and (b) signing of
implementation agreements, subsidiary agreements, subsidiary loan agreement
and Contrat Particuliere as indicated in para. 50.



- 20 -
64.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECoMUENDATION
65.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
WashinRton D.C.
October 11, 1984



-  21  -                                        Annex  1
TABLE C                                         rscE I  of 5
HADAGASCAR            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HADACASC                           REFERENCE GROUPS (tEIGHTED AVERAGES) j.
MUST               (HOST RECNT ESITEATE) lb
RECENT     LOW INCOHE AFRICA       mIDDLE IN-COM
196q0b    1970m k    zst riTb      soUTN OF SAHARA     AFRICA S. OF SAMARA
ARE (TUO SAND Sq. U)
TOTAL                              587.0     187.0     537.0
ACRICJLTURAL                       361.2     363.7      370.5
CGN Fm  CAPITA (VS$)                  130.0     190.0      320.0              249.1                1112.9
KNOtt CONSIWTIUM PER CAPITA
(KILOCRANS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)       27-0      60.0       41.0               62.6                 529.0
PoPuLATION AD VITAL SUTlSTICS
POPULATION,HID-YEAR (THOWSANDS)   3474.0    6785.0     9199.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 oF TOTAL)       10.      14.1       19.5               19.2                  29.7
POPULATIUII PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                         16.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                           34.1
POPULATION HONETM                                       1.9
POPULATION DENSISY
PER SQ. EN.                        9.3      11.6       15.3               32.5                  55.8
PER SQ. N. AGRI. LAND             15.2      18.7       24.2              119.2                 111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 US                          41.6      42.6       43.9               45.6                  45.4
15-64 YRS                         55.Z      53.9       52.9               51.5                  51.7
65 AND ABOVE                       3.2       3.3        3.3                2.9                   2.9
POPULATION GROUTH RATE (C)
TOTAL                              1.6       2.1        2.5                2.8                   2.8
URBAN                              4.9       5.0        5.2                6.2                   5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        46.7      45.2       46.7               48.6                  47.0
CRUDE IDEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       26.6      21.9       17.8               17.7                  15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0       3.0        3.2                3.2                   3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TNOUS)           .
USERS IS OF HARRIED VOEE)           ..        ..         .
YODM AND UnRItION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       89.0     102.0       94.0               65.8                  31.6
PER CAPITA SUMY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)     100.0     107.0      109.0               86.4                  98.2
PROTENS (GRANMS PER DAY)         57.0      59.0       56.0               49.9                  56.7
OF WICH ANDAL AND PULSE         17.0      17.0       15.0 Ic            18.3                  17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         45.0      32.0       23.0               23.8                  18.7
IsLAI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.2      42.2       47.9               48.4                  51.7
INFANT NUT. RATE (PER THOUS)       177.0     149.0      116.0              117.5                 102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               *-      11.0       25.0 Id            21.8                  35.6
URBAN                               ..      67.0       76.0 7d            61.5                  54.1
RURAL                               ..       1.0       t4.07d             14.2                  27.3
ACCESS TO ElCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 oF PoPuLATIoN)
TOTAL                               ..        ..         ..               32.0
URIUN                               ..      68.0         ..               69.2
RURAL                               ..        ..        9.0 Id            24.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          6900.0   10170.0    10170.0 le         27477.8               11946.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3110.0 tf 3350.0     3660.0 77          3396.2                2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                            420.0     350.0      500.0 Ie          1069.0                 986.9
URBAN                            150.0 /f  210.0      240.0 7W           395.2                 368.7
RURAL                            610.0o 7   460.0     520.0 7W          3094.0                4012.1
ADIUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..       5.8        4.7 /d
URBAN                               ..       5.3        5.0 Id
RURAL                                        5.9        4.7Td
AVEMRE NO. OF PERSONS/bROO
TOTAL                                                   ..              ..
URBAN                               ..        ..
RURAL                               ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 Or DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN                               ..        ..
RURAL                               ..        ..



22                                                    Annex 1
IZ A       1h                                       mc 12  or  5
___CASCAk              - SOCeL =?CK`;S UAA S5 
CMSCZ                  CUNT Uaznm  X,s  uz      A aIE
~~~~cW  3S: B52XAS;4 l'b 
*96UM           LOW lXC=ff AS&=        !13r  L  MM
:9l-b '   97V! Et                      StlC-s OF SAza      A    L3cL S. or ScAA&
P32a*Y:   --.A                      52.0       Ul.C 0     100.0 l             69.2                    91.0
58.0      95.C          ..                78.8                    90.5
Fs-L                     45-0       s;-0   .-                       57.6                   73.6
cE~&ZT: ~U:A.'"a0  1'.0                                    -4.0 /c            L3.1                    17.4
-M,:-                     5.0       '3.0          __                17.6                   23.7
!aX                     3.0        9.0          __                8.3                    14.8
ocOSa. Cm OF SECmSIt)                 9.L        8.7           _                 7.2                    5.3
P3~AiY                              70.0       65.0        55.G /a             4&1                    38.6
SECOlrAM                            Z -O0      20.0        23.0 7F            25.9                    24.3
AZ=  =I3ACr RA-Z ()                     ..       39.0        50.0 /c             44.3                   35.6
PASSESGR C&35TIUSSC  POP               4.0        6_8         7.1                 3.8                   20.7
=:aX  ;ERZS/31T:5=   POP              15.0       79.7       195.1                41.9                  100.8
, RECE3S/0I&     0?                   ..        0_5        52                 2.0                    8L.5
1!RESr) CE..L'A-Z0
PM   S i -PCkPm"J_OS                 7.7        7.8                                                   17.2
=       ALAL A0 !/CP                   OS         0.7          __                 '.-                    0.3
-AL LA3a FW3CE C(5)                3046.0    3620.0       4634.0       . 
7       5PE F)                      46.9       46.1        44.5               36.5                    33.8
AMIC:;= (PECENZD)                   93.0       90.0        87.0                77.4                   57.1
:SiCs   (P 'IE7)                     :.0        3.0         4.0                9.8                    17.4
?A4lC1PA105 3A= CPERCS-)
TOTW-                               LL5_6      53.4        50-4                41.0                   36.3
MAL2                                60.7       58.8        56_0                52.1                   *7.6
_iEnALE                             50.9       48.2        44.7               30.2                    25M1
ECSIIC DPENOCE RA                      0.8        0.9         0.9                 1.2                    1.4
-ECN OF PRW            tO
mq         m 1
:[ EMS52 OF 07ISEO                  5_0_
HIGES. 23: OF BlDCSt                  --
L0Es: 2OZ oF _DSNO            _          : ..7 .. ..
LT   40Z OF    SE                   13.0 .LL 
!STnATED ABSoLC= P0Wo?Y IE
LamL (055 PER CAPXM&)
BAS                                   ..         ..       150.0 /c            168.3                   525.3
WAAL                                  ..         ..        86.0 Ic             90.8                  249.0
ESTIATED RfLArV  POwER2T  DlE
LEVEL. (5s PEM CAPITA)
ORSAS                                 ..         ..       135.0 lc            107.7                  477.4
R=A;.                                 ..         ..        86.0 7r            65.0                   186.0
ESrTMAD PoP. ar-M ABSOLCZE
roy LCME LEVEL (:)
C3BAS                                 ..         ..        50.0 Ic            34.7
AL                                    ..         ..        50.0 7T            65.4.
307- AVALLkZL
-0 APPLICABLE
5 O T x S
Ia  Mm group averages for each Ind-cator are popuiat_lo-wIghad arItbtfc _ems. Cow.rae of catries mgg the
Indicators depends an availabllity of data -d Iaut no niforu.
fb   UnLa.. otbrulee noted, -Dota for 19o0 refer to any yer betwen 1959 end 1961; -za for 1970J betwea  1969 ad
1971; and data for Most Recent !Estiate  between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; Id 1975; 1. 1978: /f 1962; LL POpu1at1on.
Mm. i1si



-23-                                                                         Annex 1
.9 '                                                                       Page 3 of 5
-      t0.t0  009 -. -  *90= 9.99           999.a9 3.    99             t9990  0=  .00.9J9. 3. .0-OS *0.9 -     #0= 999.          09999000009
0.. -     99 9.     - .9.0=900= 001 99010= 0= 99   .5.4 -   99.ofl .090.9  09 0910990.99 9 0=99  19.   - o. 1009.9.    90 -
e. .,  -  .u.. ** os. 0=                        . ..n.0. - 49Mb fire .090.9..
- 6.4o9- - - 'E9 .90 0.09 - 099 -- 0=0?) .0.. - t99 - 000=. .-90 09.*0 =0= 0- 90047 - 99
0-9  .        :.n    99. .99r :a   39: 999*999   *         e 90490. 0990= 0=09 91009.    -       0=9  - 9.0            -   '      0*9-9.0009990
99919903990. 9-.- 99999- 90.9 -   0= 999909 a  .0J.91399 9.0.o.  .90.909.             9c      lor                    -   fhto, - 909 .0nf...
9   -  0=9 999 10= 9090949.. 90999 199 0090 - 9009*99             999 0=0=999 0=0-0 - 0=    000=.....t 009    09             *999. 9090 09 09
900= 0  999099 99900 -. -  099.   - 99900=. -             9     -    .9   9  to  990fl9= .9.  -         00=99199.              *          -
-. 19  99-= .                                                                         0909. -. 909.09199 - 90099099 419100   9-9    9999009t99
- %..0 ...9...-.o    't9 0   .-...C .9.  00.                               00! cOO   ..091.9 90=.   tC         01c .90.990t. sO..
-         ..                                                               0.991...     9..0.9 9099.99 - 3*OZ.5 099 009900 9.  9 -     999399
- 9919099 .9 90.. 99999.. -   9,9.0 e9999009 - 990     9                9    90.9. 59   9.10  0=0.00 0.990. 990.30
--   -  919*999 990    0' 009 94.99. -.                    0=9099 0=9009999..
9.     09:                                                                   o.           0=9.9.1 -  - *...; .      -  9.990 - .0099.09 **990.
-. 1000 419,904w -. 090.0 . 999 -
Cr. 0 -- - -                                         -0.                  ...s..0.o. oeoo. - ro....  .? - .ws.oo99  oo.0 -
-      9.9099 9999.'4 - 9.9t* 90 -        .0-.: 0=0.. -                  '0=99109.5090 999999. 994**:        09900.0. 0.009  4..9
009  399*0* -  .0- 4999.                                                          - -  109       001-099..  99900. 9.09*9099 999993.9009 o....90
.90. - - 0.9000. 9.9.1 ino.az.. 10. 0990.s 999039
9999.9 0=0009.3 99 C'o  - 9900.90 .0993 -t.- - 99909*                                tt990 999 -  9909  9999             *   .Ott- 9*99 - .9.90.90
909990-0        . -  0009. 0990-0=. 9.9.9.1 -         0.49-. - 1..9                 Io.          9699 0.. .9.. 1 999.90 .999  09-09900         0=
0=   9999*   9990*t 09*991 199.0 - .10   09910= 0  .9900.. .*.                     999.0 - - 0099909 -    * 9990991
:993.    Ofl. 499..                                                              f22*=.rz**=*::=.-   .990 a          .5 .900.9.00= - - *00599
0-0090.. .-099
2999. 90.-.-  900 '90   - - -  3999   00=. 090. 50-                         0=009.
00.,                                                                            .  3399 99 1009 *099..e -*              05099.t .50  0= 9.990
00o 99fl09 .1 rn.fl - -- a    -. 000 ..o0*                                - 1084m.9e .5 . o.a *0000. *                         0o90o q.0=99
99.    000.0910= - .9n 999o   -                  on. a ..                        09909 0-.   &.. a         -  9.0-9    - 0= 0= - 0990000.
-9  9009909. 0909. 9009* 0= 0992..                                              999 1009  9.9 .9009.0              .
*.9090 0=000=                                                                            a   a           n.   - 9.9.0 .            .... ..... a
900.9099 1.      -     2           99199 .99099900 999.9  IS                             999 0   09 901 .099* -  '919.0 901990900 0100
999.0. .00.9 Ia 01 S         -  10=9   t0009 -  9.99t lot.                     0-200W. 3990309909.    00t..9. 00.0                  .990.9.0
3'9999.  9.S9.90.9 009999 999 9.9090099 99990 9093.9 - 390                         9990  099.
000. ..00.9 009. .0=99,09.9 9teot 00090199 9099 9099.*9 999                  -       99 939999091*9 'ooe.. a    3, *.90 - *.9*: -   -  9.9.1 -
-t   0.0101.. -  90.39 00*   999r9 990=0093.99 .9 ?.23                          909990    00.00 9090 9099090001. 19 009099     99 S 0095
  109 0         9.9 9.9?. rot. os .bo 00        o.9.1..                    a ,...0. ..        *0=0    40o  Ott.9S9.
99 Zte 00 99900099 0990=099 9. 0990= 099.0 - - 90=09
f0099999 9.9 .- 0. - oc - a -  ...                                        a,oe
.s          a    ..00.    9.900 00.9 9   9.9 00999 0.9 --                    99.99.4 009.9309 999099
9039. .00.99... -           39      09         03901       .0199                  fl9.fl  0=.          9909    9001 -         0090. 9.09 9  9519
-          . 10= ..9t.9. 0=1. e....9000 99993.0909                 .....000*    90         -- .n      0.009 - 09.9009 .1 ...t..
--  00 909.190.9 9-0=  9. 9.900  000 '0                                         9919.99 000-999 .00.9.. -   0=9.009 1 o..999 9901*9.9 09 9.31
900099999999900.  99- 9 000.9 009. 099 99990 9909 09 9090=                       *99 94099999.9 9099.90  -39999.5 9939.99 00.9099. 999
99990 99 099 -     9999 0= *  9999909 39 90- 90. -  99.                       00*9099 9099 9.09999.0 00.9090 0.0009  -  -          1.9. 999
9999 39t.    09000. 090009 9099 -  0=3.0 - 9                              .00          309999 990.999       999 099091.1    0 S
o a 9  r..   90=99*993-ta - 0=    4.90199 go 999                           ......... 90=1 . *.9.  909    *99919 - 290999 - .0..
2.w0.       .. -    .. a 9.-no... ..-o. ...009.09 0990 -                          .9   990=    -        9.9 9  - 49         9909. 10=999.90.9.
999.099,99 .0999 - 9999 29.09 0.9 999.0.9090 990=9'9 9                             99.991999 .099*  9. --00=1. - 999.999 *99099.9 30=0=900 999
9910=  '09.90= 999099.n-0.0 9.9..                   999.09.99*                        9 00=40* ..         9    0. 9.0=             '    0=
09. -   a... o  -  9993   .909 -  999.0= 99009. -                               99999.109 99.051.
a   .000909. 39 199      0 09 9.9999 - 9 99939 a 999                 9999900=1 999.9009.99 *9999999  9 999999* - 0.90 9390 09.9t9..900
.39t99999...999.9.:099-9999..1.9399999999.40                                    .,904-.09993990...990.0   -
099 9009   0= 9999 0'9''99.3 * - 9.90.9.0999  0. 9999999.                      *.9..9.4o.90. 99 - 099909099  9 .9 9199  99,9-90--
99999..                                            999.      .r-.    0-999.99..99-99,9.-090.90...99
-  -. 99. 9..'..-.         - 9-9999199.9 99- .9 909309.9.99  999                9 99-.0e  .9 99.9  *0.0 999919909. 04  -s  999    9999.
*300099t99 999 - .99.999 .999990 - COO 390= 9*0-. 99.991. 0000 -,
- .03. 0= 9990399 01 9999*05 0=90 - 990   .99.4.0=9                            99009.999 999999.9 '10   9.9.:.9 ... -  oo- .. 9.o.. 0-
09909.. 3900. fl'0 0  0094 9019.                                            9909 09009 :999 99.9 90999 9.909. 99.100 CLO9.. -.   -
99190099 90* 3.99 .999999) - -.94: - .090 499.9* 9.99. *9 99. .990              .900.0=    391990.
1990.9990. .09097.. 0= .r9..:.                                         99   0939999 '999 9        999*0990990 - 000 99$9991 999.09990 99999499
9.000.90.9 C909 999. '09,91990' -    . 9-4. 490590 19999*9 990=                         9999 99 .090. 990009  9 9        9 .009909..   0a
.00-10 999 :0.0.99. ..M.          0990.92.                                       .90199- 99           .                             .o    - 9
-     99909 0=9 10 0109  - -         00.9 991009 9.9 99099.0 99                      9    30919999  9969 99. 9090= 9.999 0  0      99.9.9993. 900=00
9991 990009910 .0-. .990.   .9.2 9999.                                           99.99 919. *09.0  009f09.
939.4. 0=9,9 999. '0  1900=0 - 9-0             910  a 9949                       - 9999? .999 9999 0     9999199'993 - ?* 99909999 99.  ..99999.
0909999.. o909 o*. 99 0992 00990.                                              9.00990909009 0  310  090919.9. 0151 90009909 99 9999009
CS... 900995909. toO. -   9e 9-9.9 499099999.           9900909909                 10 .099099.409   990        9.90.999039. 91990=9009 999.99.
O  09.1 9090           9099 090 .bt          93.0    993 909                       99   09990.939. '909 10  90.990990 -          0=
90=0000999999. .0000  099.9999 9.9909         l9 909, I*,'0.                      09990099099 - '4990. .0090 39990999 99.09. 0*90= 9 9.90090.90
0992.                                                                            909000399 4999999 *99.9t09 9. 9999999 999.0090 09.  993. 909.9
59903. 0309.9 - .9-rn9  9.0=5 't99...9  - 99,9391 at  91 99.9.9999                t. -  4.o09  0 39 09   -             .00 909.
09 999t9990 09996          00      31 0=3.00 '0-37 01999999                   23.99900909999999999 909 249099 0  9999 - 9000 99099 a        91
93099.                                                                            099999 9909 9..10  099 9999. 199060.99 0990.900  9 099.09 90990 99
900* 909900.9 - 90999 '999-9.9   e.0o..     ' - 999999    - 0=00.9                 9.3019   99
0 9090=99t99 0 599993 9109 99 0=0=000
9999909099 a  999990 990t399999099 99900   #9099 -.        94
99909.090.9    a       9909 -     -   39.909, 9039090 9.9                       099. .9999 99999 9099.0=91 - 019-9.10. 9.93.. 99       09.191099 -
0090090 .0=999.90099 990 09           99. .90= 00109.                            909999 994-90999.9    .09 0.d9. 90099.   99949.99* .99, 909999
09099099 99 9* 5 999990900 09 0.910 .99.99199 999 -
90= -  *'93*'*?w                                                                     '.909.  9999 ,t'3 ..4 0991 4.9*.
999 9990-9 09.91901 - 000 99 9.9 909093                                  - 0539 009 99109 99 9999.90 99 99993 09009 99919,
9-0  990090.99 0' 33.      09-09099. 99000090 99909999                         ri2=.:='   9991 0.999 39 *.90999* 99999099. 9000900
00.9.4 - - c999 0=9 0=00. 900900099 9999 993.999 99999 9990.                    9099.099 90 93.919900 999999:09990  9999, 3909. 0r0  '90099.
.000  00999 a 0991 90049 999 99090. 0=  990909   9t9999 19.9.                  :9999 99999991 - t    99999 09 999009, -09909199.. 0919909.9199 0
*fle 0=099999 99000-40. 09909 900-91099 .9 009. 90*99 09                         900909099. .9 99049909 99990=0 99 99990 09099 99199. 0900. 19'9
990=00=0 90990 990099 999999909099. 0900099. 0.9.0. -  1992                99909.. 4999.
9999.                                                                          90990.00390 9999 o9.9.0' 9990 9.09 0  9in09 - 3990tO390 09
9019990999999099W t99.9099 999.909 .5 Ot.3.0  9 590999 999.                        9.00999.99.9. 99* .0999* 99 99090.  0.9. 0= 9o..a. 1.9 9.99.99
90999 95    #0- 90039.99901.9909 09 900910 9909009w                        9.990=09 90 990. 9.09 0=10.0999990.900.9 05900         o9990o909.
.  9.0.9900.   00  909099 9-39 9-90.9. 0t*  On.                               In. 090'* 0= 0990 059.         a  9- 99 9091'9 9.9939000.999999
95999. 9.9 09- 399.0=. -  90=0099.9900- 993900 9994* 99999,                      9900999090 0.0  9939990.9 999.0:99099.          099 9099 090=, 9
9-3.9'.. .009 90=99099099. 0=1.00. 4199900=099.   999.999                        999 .99099999 399 9999 0=000 0999.,
90=999094 - 99999994 99 9999093.999990          991 0=000                  '99.0=9 0990-099 99909 - 99.0. a 9999099099 .fo  II   09 9.9 .. t.
99909099 0=0=0090 90=0499099 0=099-90 .909900=.          9.09099,                099   9099 0.0099099 109999 0   019000.
O - - 40.99.0=099 a 990990909 0- 9000=99 19..... 10*
..       o 0999:: 3900-el, 0 999 0= 20= 990.                                 *tW  099999991199
9 .009 9.990. .5 .901.09 9990=0=00990 - 93909 9000 a 0  999309                                     19-  999* 99 0   94 93900 - 099910=99 90-9
-  .OpE  *090 -  499. 00009491.. 91 90=3. 90000=               0=                90910=. 9.93909 39399.00. 9999.9    991.0, 0= 99.0990 09 90900= .1
0000.09 999.03.099099960=19099 S   9999*49 999 .99-                              00049
9090.9 9059090 999919999909 9994990= 90510 99 0 0=
99099 90909. .90-9901099-999.0499 .909905999909. 90                          099191 "0=99.    9
9.10  -  0.9   91 90  05 .90.0  99909 0=21 sIn.                             309 99.1009. 99910=99.999999 .9.99900-.          a 09909 099.09.
a 0=9.0. 9.009999. 99990 001 009 .99t. 9.9-69  999 39 999                        90-09 99 0999909000 9090 9.99904999009 905009.
10099 9.904    901... 0903-09. 09?'! 999000 999                               9903.9999 99990919 9091. 2990=099.0 919999 9990099 9 09999 0= 999.0 -
0  59.099 9999009 9.9.09 99.9 .999.3 0= 0.100 - 9999909 0=909   10=                *000999 9.99999 09- 1900990=  9- 0.990 99109 .90099 9900.90
90900=  00=9.09 0= 990009 49099999 0099, 0900999. 1999 0=  95.                      9t03001 99-99 9990 90.9 .039: 99990= 999609.09 090
5909.                                                                            0500149619.
99* 00 '00909 0.90 900 99900901 9900-0 9 .091.90990 9900=19                      99909.999990.909. 9999900 999990 199993 '2990 '900390 9 090=0= 9.990
0        099 99999. 9939900909 0909 0  090=, 09.          09.099                 90991.9.1.9000 90=999 0090 .9900 09 0=9990.9 .5 0=90      99.099
99099 009 49900= 999. 0099 90399, 0909. 099*0= 0990 4919.                        9.9.99.0 3.069   905990. 0.0  :0990 0. 4999994 9090. .9590
0.9.0. 9000 902000 0.9 03.o. . .0 10.0t -
9 91     *9 009.1090.99              99qt9.. 909909909. 9909. 999.0999 9.99990. 9.0 09-991 .999900 9 .90=
1.9.99 9993 339 9999 9 900=0 900090. 99.59. .0 0900=9 001 -
91 0 0 010 00.9 9099990 0993. .' 0= 09.3 ..
90900991 99.99991 099.9999 - 099909909.0 . 09990 990= 9.9.0 -
91 9019 099990. 9,0=. -  99 9.0 9090 90990009 99.0 99. 9999                                                 99999 0.9 90919939    009.9. 10.99399
0=99 09:. (09009499099.9.9 04.990*09  9 90990=94 994                                                           .9900. 0=09900 0=  99290    90999909
99I90  0=99          9090=9999 .999.90.09-90.95. 95100. 909                                                                  -3999
90919 9.20.5 99 .990909 90 39909 3.9tt 9.0-993-. 09.9
900.9999 0=401 909*3.91900=9094 0.0-990= a 99.9 ?09 00099
90=9 9909 9999 99 9.090900909 0000190009 91 0=
900. 99 .9990.09.99999939990939 14 9.9909 9 9= 100..9
. a - 0029490=3-9. 559.9. 4o..9....ooa.. ..st .9
00949909 999.903909.09 *:r. a .0,
6999 9099949 9900009.93 909900 000999.90 9 09900 940= 0= 99990
99 a 39o90 . o.991. -. 0= .00o
9910909 90 93.0949090099 999039930. 09999990009090 0 00000-
00999000009 0=469.00. 9090.9900909909990. 9.99-00909
- bOW 09999. 10990990910099690990=
.090391 090092.0-0.99.



- 24 -
4ne 1
Page 4 of 5
MADAGASCAR - ECONQIIC DDICATOS
GROSS NATiONAL PRODUCr IN 1983                    ANUAL RT OF GROVrr1I
uSS Kim.         Z       1975-79   1979-82
GOP at market Prices       2,837.7         100.0       0.1        0.0
Consuption                 2,646.3         93.3       -0.6        0.8
Gross Domestic Investen      373.8          13.7       4.1        4.2
Current Account Balace     -324.3        -11.4        -            -
EiWor-z of Goods, NES        324.5          11.4      -2.8        9.5
Imports of Goods, NrS        506.9          17.9       2.3       -7.0
OUP. LABOUR FORCE. AND PRODUCnVT IN 1983
Value added2/      Labour Force3/    VA Per Worker
ISS Kin.      1       '000        z    -s- mK        _
Ariculture      1155.1        40.7   4095       88.4    282.1       46.0
Industry         418.6        14.8    127        2.7  3,296.1    537.8
Services       1,156.2        4L.8    357        7.7  3,238.7    528.4
unJaliocated41   107.8         3.5      51       1.2  2.113.7    34.9
Total           28Tj         100.0   4630     62.        9       -100.0
GOVERIUT FINANCE
Ceztral Governent
=HG B31               Z of GDP
1983       1975       1980    1983
Curre=t Receipts              141.0       13.6      14.6    11.4
Current Expenditures          143.0       13.0      16.4    11.7
Current Deficit                -2.0      +0.6       -1.8    -0.2
Capital Expenditures           49.9        3.3      13.4      4.1
Foreign fEinancl  (net)        17.1        1.4       5.2      1.4
MONEY, CREDT and PRICES
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
(Millioni MRG Outstandig at End of Period)
Money and Quasi Money            141.0  173.0  206.0  242.0  276.0  271.5
Bank Credit to public sector      49.0  99.0  176.0  234.0  266.0  304.0
Bank Credit to state enterprises
and private sector             101.0  121.0  150.0  164.0  197.0  229.6
Money and Quasi Money as #   of GDP 29.0  29.1  29.9  30.7  27.7  22.2
GDP Price Deflator (1978 - 100)   195.7  217.9  250.6  313.7  403.9  488.9
Annual percentage chages In
GDP PrSce Deflator               6.8  11.4  15.0  25.2  28.8  21.0
Bank Credit to public sector      75.0  102.0  77.8  33.0  13.7  14.3
Bank Credit to State enterprises
and private sector             5.2  19.8  24.0   9.3  20.1  16.5
Note: All conversions. to dollars in this table are at the average exchange
rate prevaili=g durig the period covered.
1/ 1 1970 prices for 1970-81 arnd 1982 prices for 1982-1983.
/ At market prices.
31 Tozal labour force in 1980.
' Import duties.                                               July 1984



- 25 -
A        1
Pge 5 of 5
,-DAGMCM - TRADE PAV2r AND CGPTL HC
}gNC CF PAILS                                                r-DIE iR   (AVM    1977-M)
1981  1982  19831/                USS MX.    2
;TTS M-11IIMT
Coffee                      132.8       41.3
Va=illa                      40.7       12.7
Cloves                       47.8       14.9
M-e an 'mul  producs         18.7        5.8
EiqpoTts of G   L& NF.S.  391.6  378.6  363.5  Fish ansdd fish                  7.1       2.2
Iroos  of GoDas & S.F.S.  735.6  651.7  510.3  Stgar                            9.9       3.1
Pecrlen pr&rs                11.4        3.5
Resource Blme            -343.0  -273.1 -216.8  Chrcmite                       13.7       4.2
Other *cIIeHsad              39.5       12.3
Toal                   31.6      100.0
hL--eStEME    e            88.3  -%.6 -106.3_
Private Trafers, Net        4.0   -1.4   -1.2   E Al  ET, I4RI    31, 198i5/
WS M1-.
Garren          Bal1     -427.3 -369.1  -324.3
Phblic Debt, i1. guaraee    1,564.8
Official *, eqested                               n-(immateed Pri-a"e Debt         -
Trafers               62.6   72.3    63.8 Total Oumtandi:g & Disb         1564.8
Net M; Borowing:           323.9  189.0    51.5 DEBT SIC    RATO FCR 19823/
D I sbursIers          326.8  309.9   200.6                                   2
nrziern                 -78.8 -110.4  -183.9
Debe Relief               75.9   89.5    34.8  Public Debt, frncl. gated  33D.d-5/
Other .4tal (me)2/         50.7  116.4)          IMZ/I IDIA LW G  gSeptw 3DZ 1984
)  2D9.0                                 USS mi111=
qt~E   - Reere              9.9   -8.6                                         IMR        IDA
autstadg &
DIisbisid                  28.96   254.26
PATE (F EA0KE              1981   1982   1983    bdisbrsel                              164.8
tsanm   Icl.
USS1.00 -        D       21.7D O.3  3    430.45 34hzD45                        28.96   419.10
1        I  USS 0- o.2  Q0023
ProvIs1awl estIninter
I Thiu    ne NF cret, state a  private           3/ Debt service payi3 s as 2 of eqports of goocs
sbart-tezm captal, arre    zd coUdated   4              services.
arrs, and errors and aissioc.          4      / After effects of debt resdm*hdlg armg ts
rParPis 0iub.
Provisic l data dill be revisel wt= updated
de- data are available.
July 1984



- 26 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEXOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Ba-k Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984)1/
Loan or
Credit
Number     Year   Borrower    Purpose               Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
-(US$ Million)
Ten Credits and Five Loans
have bee= fully disbursed                           32.57   112.95      -
CR  663-MAG    1976 Madagascar Education II                      14.002/   1.14
CR  817/1-4AG  1978 Madagascar Andekaleka Hydroelectric          43.00(PI   5.82
CR  881-HAG    1979 Madagascar Mangoky - Agriculture             12.00     2.85
CR  903-HAG    1979 Madagascar Railways II                       13.00     0.23
CR  938-MAG    1979 Madagascar Highways V                        24.00     5.05
CR  977-HAG    1980 Madagascar Industrial Bank - BNI              5.00     1.81
CR 1002-XAG    1980 Madagascar Water/Sanitation                  20.50    15.87
CR 1016-MAG    1980 Madagascar Petroleum Exploration             12.50     2.92
CR 1064-HAG    1981 Madagascar Agriculture Bank - BTK            11.50     7.58
CR 1086-MAG    1981 Madagascar Plain of Antananarivo T.A.         2.30     1.20
CR 1155-HAG    1981 Madagascar Accounting and Audit              11.50     5.91
CR 1161-HAG    1981 Madagascar Forestry II                       20.00    10.70
CR 1211-HAG    1982 Madagascar Village Livestock II4/            15.00    11.27
CR 1249-HAG    1982 Madagascar Agriculture Institutions           5.70     2.69
CR 1298-HAG    1982 Madagascar Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                    11.50     5.00
CR 1337-MAG    1983 Madagascar Lac Alaotra                       18.00    15.69
CR 1391-MAG    1983 Madagascar Highways VI                       25.00    22.38
CR P004-MAG    1983                                              20.00    18.21
CR 1433-HAG    1983 Madagascar Cotton                             7.90     7.43
CR P008-HAG    1983                -                              9.90     8.29
CR 1497-MAG4/  1983 Madagascar Urban Development                 12.80    12.80
TOTAL                                  32.57   428.05   164.84
of which has been repaid              3.61     2.55
TOTAL now outstanding                  28.96   425.50
Amount sold of which has been repaid   0.00      6.40
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    28.96   419.10
TOTAL undisbursed                                    164.84
1/ The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3| Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 27 -
Ak     2
Page 2 of 2
B. Stateme=c of IFC 1kvestmeats (as of September 30, 1984)
Loan     Equity     Total
-(US$ Million)-
1977   Sotema - Textile Mill at Miajuga           11.00     0.29      11.29
1980   Bata - Shoe Manufacturi=g in
AitaLanariLvo                             1.25       -        1.25
1983  EPecheries de Nossi-Bg                       2.57     0.13       2.70
15.24



- 28 -
Annex 3
MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                  April 1984
(b)  Project preparation:             May 1984
(c)  Appraisal mission:               May-June 1984
(d) Negotiations:                     September 1984
(e)  Board Presentation:              October 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  December 1984
Sectio- II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) Establishment at the Central Bank of a Special Account to
receive an IDA deposit of US$3.0 million (para. 57).
vii)  Establishment of a Project Advance Account to receive a
G-overnment deposit of FMG 1 billion (para. 57).
Ciii) Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement and of a -Contrat
Particulier' with ASECNA (para. 50).
(iv) Signature of implementation agreements (conventions de
travail) with SEPT, SEIMAD and FIFABE (para. 50).
(v) Signature of subsidiary agreements with BM and BFV
(para. 50).



- 29 -
Annez 4
Page 1 of 2
CYCLONE EIL             PROJECr
Cost Estimates
(USS = 560 F(g)
FMg Million              US0  million            z
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
A. PORTS
KgLmjaDsga
Civil Works          127      186     313   0.227   0.332   0.559         60
Equipment             73      244     317   0.131   0.436   0.567         77
Antsiranana
civil Works          200     294      494   0.357   0.525   0.882         60
Equipment             93      309     402   0.166   0.552   0.718         77
Sub-Total A      493   1,033   1,526   0.881   1.845   2.726          68
S. AIRPORTS
Mahaj arga
Civil Works           33       24      57   0.060   0.043   0.103         42
Equipment            144     480      624   0.257   0.857   1.114         77
Antsiranana
Civil Works           95      70      165   0.169   0.125   0.294         43
Equipment             42      140     182   0.075   0.250   0.325         77
Meteorological
Equipment             23       78     101   0.042   0.139   0.181         77
Sub-Total B      337     792   1,129   0.603   1.414   2.017         -,s
C. ROADS
Amboromalandy Dike    810   1,190   2,000   1.447   2.125   3.572           60
RN8 Works              238      350     588   0.426   0.625   1.051         60
RN6 Works              619      910   1,529   1.106   1.625   2.731         60
Sub-Total C   1,667   2,450   4,117   2.979   4.375   7.354           60



- 30 -
Amn    4
Page 2 of 2
FMg Million             USS Million            S
Foreign         Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Excharge
D. PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Education
Mahajarga            315     234      549   0.564   0.417   0.981       42
Antsiranana          537     397      934   0.960   0.709   1.669       42
Others
Mahajanga            441     326      767   0.787   0.582   1.369       42
Antsiranama          365     270      635   0.651   0.482   1.133       42
Sub-Total D   1,658   1,227   2,885   2.962   2.190   5.152         42
S. AGRICULTURE
FIFABE
Equipment             35     115      150   0.061   0.205   0.266       77
Spare Parts           32     108      140   0.058   0.193   0.251       77
Buildings             27      20      47   0.048   0.035   0.083        42
Sub-Total E      94      243     337   0.167   0.433   0.600        72
P. JIRAMA
Civil Works          260     191     451   0.463   0.341   0.804        42
Equipment            175     583      758   0.312   1.041   1.353       77
Sub-Total F     435      774   1,209   0.775   1.382   2.157        64
G.  BOUSING CREDIT         448      672   1,120   0.800   1.200   2.000        60
R. OCXSULTANT SERVLCES
Mahajanga
Urban Study           98     224      322   0.175   0.400   0.575       70
Supervision          153     200      353   0.274   0.357   0.631       57
Experts              129     168      297   0.230   0.300   0.530       57
Sub-Total R     380      592     972   0.679   1.057   1.736        61
Total Base Cost          5,512   7,783  13.295   9.846  13.896  23.742         59
Physical Conti:gencies    664       978   1,642   1.186   1.747   2.9 33       60
Price Contingencies        247      353     600   0.441   0.630   1.071        59
TOTAL COSTS   6,423   9,114  15,537  11.473  16.273  27.746         59



- 31 -
Aznez 5
MADkGASCAR
CYCLONE REBAIILIflTIOK PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Building Period
1984           1985            1986
I                        I   I                                          1 I I | I -         
JA PORTS
I  Civil Works           |  j             _             '
E Equipment                                         1
jEALEORTSI  I*I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  1  i
IB AIRPORTS                   .                             5  
_                      .i         I11            1         I   I   I   It 
Civil Works          I  I  I  LJ-            I  I  i  |  |  |  I
Equipment            1  I  1  iI-    _   I    I  |  I  I  I
IC    ROADS              I   I     I     I   I  I   I   I   I   I   I   I
Amboromalandy Dike    I  I   I    .
JRN6                     I            _ I                       I  I i
3RN8                                  _  _
ID PUBLIC BUILDINGS
ISchools                                  _
Others                   I            - _
E AGRICULTURE                 .         I  I            I  I  I
Civil Works                   ----
Equipment                      zt|FA 
F JIRMA 4A
Civil Works
Equipment                        t               
G HOUSING CREDIT                I
H  CONSULTANTS' SERVICES |
Coord. Comm. Experts
Mahajanga Urban Study
Supervision            1  1                       - t               1



-cs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
.    _tMADAGASCAR
-rw  -w   Ke                         CYCLONE REHABILITATION
Io~~~~ P. d C
R -~~~~~~~~~
.,.
P.m  A-
- - - - - I.1w ' M
-           --   '    w   -
-16~
so  .00
AV~~~~~~~~Z 
e   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,
4.                                             vE



MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
_dhPl. r
*_ -  -                                                                 -  
-  A-
P...d A..m
_ gA~~-                                         _4
R ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ 04 .  - 
=   Sd_o R_e F- 
PrA ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~       ~
= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~, _ _                   ___gt-                                     -
S--                                                                               PA~~~---  
; ~~~~~~~~~ 7 t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~cr_ 
___      /                                               Ge
y  !=/ -                                                                  2
;~~~ ...,                               -                                                                  ,
+o~~~~-                                          /            o_                                          ~,
i- ~      ~~~                                  C. 0.                                                          0
- ~     ~       r Ta      E-                               
JULY *1



