Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10618
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-MAG)
AND
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
(CREDIT 1526-1-MAG)
MAY 11, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and maye be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoirization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Cuzrency Unit  -  Malagasy Franc (FMg)
US$1            -  FMg 560 (appraisal)
US$1            =  SDR 0.986 (appraisal)
US$1            =  FMg 972 (average)
US$1            =  SDR 0.849 (average)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASECNA          Agence pour la Securit6 de la Navigation A6rienne en
Afrique et A Madagascar (Regional Aviation Authority)
BFV       =    Banky Fampandrosoana Ny Varotra (National Commercial Bank)
BTM       -    Bankin' Ny Tanteaha Mpamokatra (Rural Development Bank)
CNC       =    Comit& National de Coordination (Coordination Comittee)
FIFABE         Agricultural Regional Development Enterprise (Marovay
Irrigation)
JIRAMA    =    Jiro Sirano Malagasy (Water and Electricity Public Utility)
MTP       -    Ministry of Public Works
OPEC      =    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SEPT      -    Soci6t6 d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina (Port
Authority)
FISCALY
January 1 - December 31



THE W ORLD BANK              YFOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice at Difector Gewfl
Opwratm Evaluatkin
May 11, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on the Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Cyclone Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1526-0-MAG) and Supplemental
Credit (Credit 1526-1-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on the Democratic Republic of Madagascar Cyclone Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1526-0-MAG) and Supplemental Credit (Credit 1526-1-MAG)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
~'k
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
POJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRAI7.C REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
'YCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-MAG)
AND
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
(CREIT 1526-1-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .    .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 
Fre-luLktion Summary  . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .s
PART  r: PROJECT REVIEW EDON IDA'S PEOSP=CTIVE
A. Project Identity. ..  .  . . .  .  . . . ..                           1
B. Background.                            .  .  . . .  .  . . .       ..
C. Project Objectives and Description       . .   .    .    .  .    . . .   . .
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project DOescription ........ .... . .  .  .  . . .  .  . . .   . 2
D.  Project Design and Organization.  . . .  .  .         . . . . .  .  3
E. Project Impl entation  3        . . . ..                              3
Credit Effectivoness and Project Start-up                            3
Implementation Schedule . .      .         .  .  .  . .   .   . .    4
Procurment ;. . . . . . .  .  .  . 4    .  . . . . .  . .     .  4
Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Credit Allocation                          s . . .  .  .  .  . .  .  . . . . . .  .  S
Finacingl...           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  ..    .  .  .  . .  . .  . .  . .  S
F. Projoet Results . . .                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Project Objectives                                                   6
Physical Results        . . . .  .  .  . . .  . * . . . . .  ..   6
Institutional Performanca . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Financial Performance......                      .     ...... .  6
G.  Project Sustainability              .................... .    7
H. Bank Performance     .. . .             .    .             . ..... .  7
I.  Borrower Performance  . .       .         ..* . . . . . .            7
J. Project Relationship  ..................... . 8
K.  Consulting Services . . . .     . . . 9   . . . . . . .  . . . .    .  
L.  Projoet Documentation and Data                     8
RT ls PROJEaCT FROM B0RR0'S PERSPECTIVE .                                9
PART fljt STATISTICAL INPORMATION
Related Bank Credits  . .      . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .     . ..  30
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . .. . . . .        . . . . . . . .   31
Credit Disbuxrsements           * *   * *  *   * .        -   - - -.  *  32
Disburse _ s by Quarter  .. . . .. ..............    33
Project Costs and Financing . . .                                       34
Ue- of Bank Resources . . . . . . 99999999999
35
Map I8RD No. 2003SR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATIO', PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-MAG)
AND
SUPPLEMENTAL CRrDIT
(CREDIT 1526-1-NAU'
MEFACK
1.       ThiL  is the Project Completion Report  (pCR)  for the Cyclone
Rehabilitation Project in Madagascar, for which Credit 1526-MHa in the amount
of SDR 14.8 million tra approved on October 30, 1984. A Supplemental Credit,
in the amount of SDR 8.8 million was approved on August 5, 1986, and the
Credit Agreement was amended accordingly.   The Credits were closed on
December 31, 1989, as scheduled in the Amnding Agreement. They wore fully
disbursed and the last disbursements were on Hay 21, 1990 for Credit 1526-0-
MAG, and may 18, 1990 for Credit 1526-1-HAG.
2.       The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
DivisioLl of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional
oQfice (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and II), and the Borrower (Part
II).
3.       Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in July 1989, and is based, inter alia, on
the President's Reports, the Credit Agreement and the Amnding Agreement,
supervision reports, irrespondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.



- Li -
PROECT  SOPLTON REPORT
DEMOCLW.TIh L!PUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-MAG)
AND
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
(CREDIT 1526-1-NAG)
UVALMAIONSUMR
1.      The project's major objectiveg were tot (i) contribute to the
physical and economic rehabilitation of the areas damaged by Cyclone Kamisy
(of April 9, 1984) and Cyclone Honorinina (of March IS, 1986)t (ii) support
lnstitutionai  arrangements  appropriate  for  efficient  coordination  of
reconstruction efforts on this and possible future occasionsu and (iii) help
develop masures to minimiLz the potential damage from natural dLsasters that
are prone to occur to vulnerable areas of the country.
2.      During the appraisal mizsLon, IDA requested the establlshment of a
National Coordination Coumittee (CNC), asoisted by extornal consultants, fox
the implementation of the project.  The comittee's  performance was very
good. Almost all the works were completed before the orlgLnal schedule, anf
withln the appraiLal cost estimate.   The bid, documents were very welt
prepared and ready on time.  There was no problem in the bid evaluatLot
process and supervlilon of works was done smoothly. The performanco of the
contractors was generally excellent.   The only exceptlon concerned the
rehabilitation of public buLldings ln Toamasina, the second phase of which
was awarded to a contractor who, contrary to CNC's assertions, had badly
pe-formed under the fLrst one. To overcom the problem, IDA required CNC to
cancel the contract or to have the works managed by the supervising
consultLng firm.   The latter was done and the works were carrled out
relatively well, even though the delays were not made up for.
3.      Overall, the project was successful in meeting its objective of
rehabilitating infrastructure in areas dmaged by the two cyclones.  In
addition, the credlt flnanced an urban and drainage study for Mahajanga,
which could serve as a basLi for a future IDA assisted project ln Madagascar.
4       on the  nstitutional and flnaniaLl side, the performance was also
impressive. ClC was established on a permanent basis and has been useful and
efflclent for the repair of dmages caused by more recent cyclones,
partlcularly Cyclone Calasanjy in the czrig of 1989.
5.      Finally, the project Lncluded studies to provide technical solutlons
for low cost cyclone-resistant constructlon and lead to the preparation and
dlssemination of antl-cyclone construction standards, whlch &re now wldely
used ln Madagascar.
6.      The Credlt holped the Government strengthen lts procedures for
copLng wlth natural dlsasters. When the HonorinLna cyclone occured in March
1986, CRC was able to react very quickly and s*mo urgent works wer started
in Aprll 19S6, wlth the approval of the appraisal issiLon. Noro recently,



- iii -
Government has been ablo to appropriately handle rehabilitation of
infrastructure in areas damaged by cyclonez and floods, albeit with some
delays.
Findines and L-sscn1s Learnd
7.       This project  is another clear demonstration that,  in special
circumstances, IDA has the capacity to process a credit in as little as three
months from identification to Board presentation. Efficient appraisal team
and task management lz obviously a critical factor in such a situation.
Elapsed time between every step of credit processing was reduced, except the
Board package which was sent an usual to the Executive Directors 13 working
days before Board pr-sen'tation. The project also showed that, in the absence
of tie for detailed project preparation, with strong supervision, it is
possible to ensure that appraisal costs estimates closely match the actual
costs at the end of the project.
8.          The main 1. soon learnt is the necessity to have a strong
coordinating unit on the Borrower's side, and to give it the possibility
to manage the procurement process with flexibility. This lesson is
particularly relevant at a time when a very sizeable effort to
rehabilitate the infrastructure in the country in underway, and when the
procur ement legislation is being overhauled.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-1iAG)
AND
SUPPLEMXNTAL CREDIT
(CREDIT 1526-i-HAG)-_
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIVE
A. Protolt L4"t*it
1.01     Proieet Data
Name                 Cyclone Rehabilitation Project
Credit Numbers    s 1526-0-HAG and 1526-1-MAG
RVP Unit             Africa Region
Country              Madagascar
Sector               Urban, Transport, Water Supply and Sanitation
R. Bsakground
1.02     Every year, Madagascar in hit by about ten cyclones or tropical
depressions, during the cyclone season, from December '.o March. For most of
the , the damage is minimal, but sovere cyclones occur from time to time.
The most devastating occured in 1929, 1956, 1959, 1972, 1975, 1984 and 1986.
in 1984, after the cyclone season, Cyclone Kamisy hit the City of Antsiranan4
on April 9, then Mahajanga on April 11 before crossing the Island from West
to East, through Antananarivo to Toamasina. Due to the extreme violence of
the winds (more than 250 km/h) and very heavy rainfalls, severe damage wau
caused in the provinces of Antsiranana and Mahajanga to ports, airports,
roads, buildings, irrigation schemes and the power network.
1.03     Two years later, on March 15, 1986, another Cyclone, Honorinina,
again severely struck Madagascar.   It devastated the Toamasina area and
damaged key infrastructure throughout the eastern part of the country,
principally the breakwater of the Toamasina Port. Crops of coffee and cloves
were partly destroyed (6% and 50% respectively), and the value of exportable
stocks of coffee and cloves that were destroyed by the cyclone (1,900 tons
and 3,560 tons, respectively) was estimated at US S 17 million.
1.04     In 1986, the cities of Toamasiaa, Mahajanga and Antsiranana had
about 180,000, 120,000 and 70,000 inhabitants respectively. Their ports are
the three main ports of Madagascar. In Nahajanga province, there is major
agricultural infrastructure such as the irrigation zone around Marovoay (100
km south of Mahajanga), operated by the Betsiboka Rlce Company (FIFABE),
which is the country's socond most Lmportant rice surplus area after Lac
Alaotra. The area includes main cotton producing zones of Madagascar which
support an important textile industry. Agriculture is less concentrated in
tlt Toamasina province, which is specialized in export crops such an coffee,
cloves, vanilla, bananas, peppers and lich-es.
1.05     The President of the Republic of Madagascar requested, by telexes of
April 16, 1984 and March 18, 1986, the assistance of IDA to help repair the
material damage caused by theso cyclones. To rospond to these requests, Bank
missions visited Madagascar from May 25 to June 5, 1984, and from April 13 to
27, 1986. The purpose of these mirsions was to estlmate the damage, define
the priorities and set up a rehan'li1tation program with cost details that
could be proposed to IDA and othir financing agencieo.



-2-
C. PrIoeat Oblectivls and Descrintoa
Proiect Obi_etives
1.06     The major project objectives were to: (a) contribute to the physical
and economic rehabilitation of the areas damaged by Cyclones Kamisy (April
1984) and Honorinina (March 1986)g (b) support institutional arrangemnts
appropriate for officient coordination of reconstruction efforts; and (c)
help develop measurea to mi:iimize the potential camage from natural disasters
in the future.
Proiect Description
1.07     The  first  project  (Cr.1526-O-MAG)  consisted  ot    X  physical
components:
(a)   Ports  In Mahajanga, rehabilitation of Vuillemain and Barriquand
wharves, repair of offices,  housing and warehouses,  repair or
replacement of port equipment (navigational aids, launches, tugs and
spare parts) and, in Antniranana, rehabilitation of the old and now
wharves, restoration of buildings and housing, and repair or
replacement of port equipment.
(b)   Airports. In Mahajanga and Antriranana, repair of air terminal,
technical facilities, control tower, staff residences and hangars;
replacement of equipment (radio, pylon., antennae, landing aidc;
generating set and fire engine); and restoration of meteorologica?
utations including communication, telex and telephone equipment.
(c)   Roadg. RN4s  reconstruction  of Ambdromalandy  Dike, bridge  and
spillway; RN8s: rehabilitation between RN4 and Marovoay; and RN6:
repair works between Ambondromany, Port Berge and Ambanja.
(d)   Public Buildinas. Repair of educational buildings, administrative
offices and public housing (about 35 buildings in Mahajanga and 31
in Antsiranana).
(e)   Ariculture. For FIFABE, restoration of its fleet by purchasing one
tug and two barges; re-establishment of spare parts stock and repair
of 15 buildings at Marovoay and Mahajanga.
(f)   Power. For the National Water and Electricity Company, Jira Sy Aano
Malagasy (JIRAMA), rehabilitation of power plants and networks in
Mahajanga, Antriranana, Toamasina, Nossi-Be, Ambato-Boeni and
Marovoay;  repairs  to  buildings  in  Mahajanga,  Antsiranana,
Antananarivo and other sectors; and re-establishment of vehicle
spare parts stock.
1.08     The project also includedz
(g)   Housina credits to be made available through two banks,BTM and BFV,
to private owners for the reconstruction of their houses, provided
the damage was caused by the cyclone; the repayment period was ten
years with two years of grace and the interest rate was 12 percent
per annum.
(h)   Consulting Services. (i) Urban planning and drainage study for the
low income neighborhoods of Mahajanga; (ii) two experts assisting
the National CoordinatLon Committee; and (iii) assistance in
supervising program execution.
1.09     The second cyclone project includod the following components, for
Toamasina and Sainte-Marie:



-3-
(a)         Rehabilitation of tho breakwater, protection of Pier C and
relocatlon of Tanic Lighthouse.
(b)   Aignxt. Repairs to buildings and replacement of navigation aid
equipment.
(c)  B2KW. Repair works on RN5, RN6 and in Sainte-Marie Island.
(d)   Public Buildinas. Reconstruction of schools, health facijities and
administrative offices in Toamasina and Sainte-Marie Island.
(a)   Conultina Services. (i) technical assistance to CNCt (ii) Toamasina
breakwater study; and (iii) supervision of buildinIgs reconstruction.
D. Prolect Dfeasn and Organisation
1.10     In view of the emergency nature of the job, there was no detailed
project preparation.  When IDA received the request of the President of
Madagascar for emergency assistance, in April 1984, the Bank decided to send
an identification mission to assess damage and determine how best to assist
Madagascar. However, in order to save time, the mission decided to define
priorities and to appraise a rehabilitation project immediately. The same
process was used in March 1986 for the second project.
1.11     In the pre-departure issues paper, it was suggested:
(a)   to require the establishment of a coordinating central unit for th9
whole project, taking into account the number of ministries involve 
(five);
(b)   to require decisions to avoid cumbersome procurement procedures,
usual in Madagascarl and
(c)   to grant a US $ 1.0 million PFF to finance emergency works, and to
reallocate financial resources available under existing projects
which could assist in the rehabilitation of cyclone damage, without
changing the nature of the existing credits.
1.12     The above measures were proposed by the appraisal mission to the
Government and agreed upon. The first requirement was met on July 20, 1984
by decree No.84/260 establishing a National Coordination Coumittoe (CNC),
under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. The management of this
committee was defined by the "Arr6t6 Intertninist6riel 3177/84 " of July 23,
1984. The second one was met by a special decree No.84/236, signed on July
18, 1984, to derogate to the common regulation of " March6s Publics ". In
particular, the prior review of contracts by the Commission Centrale des
March6a  (Central  Tender  Bou<A)  was waived.    These  arrangement   were
maintained Ror the supplementi credit 1526-1-MAG, until the closing date.
1.13     The most urgent studies and works were financed by a PPF No. P297-MAG
and other existing credits: the Second Zducation Project (Cr.663-MAG), the
Water and sanitation Project (Cr.1002-MA¢), and the Sixth Highway Project
(Cr.1391-MAG). In 1986, the same thing was done for the second project with
the Third Railway Project (Cr.1694-MAC).
B. ProgSot Xmolementat40
credit Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up
1.14     Credit 1526-0-MAG was approved on October 30, 198', for an amount of
SDR 14.8 million, and signed on December 6, 1984.  The initial date of



effectlveness was January 25, 1985.  rt war post -oned to February 25, 1985.
The only conditlons of effectiveneus were the slgning of the subsidiary loan
agreements between the GoverAment and BTh, BFV &nd the "Agence pour 1-
S8curLt& de la Navigation A&rienne (As*CNA), the slgning of project documents
("conventLons de travail") between CNC and the seven executLng agencles, and
the deposlt f4 FMg -0O. billlon into the Project Advance Account. The Credlt
was declarad eff*ctLvi on rebraary 25, 1985. Credit 1526-1-HAO was approved
on August 5, 1986, for an amount of 8DR 8.8 million, and signed on August 18,
1986.  The initLal date of effectLveness was November 16, 1986.  It was
postponed to January 19, 1987, but the Credit wac declared effective on
December 9, 1986, when the only condition of effectiveness, tho signing of
the SEPT (ToamasLna Port Company) subsLdlary loan agroement, was met.
Imolementation Schedule
1.15     The first project was originally scheduled to be completed by
December 31, 1986. All the works were effectively compl_esd by that date,
and 91.7% of the credit was dLsbursed. The only remaining activity was the
housing credit component.  Meanwhile, Cyclone HonorinLaa occurred in March
1986 and it was deided to extend elLgibillty for houaLng credits to own-rs
of the Toamasina Region, and therefore to extend the Credit closing date,
June 30, 1987, to that of the Supplemental Crzdlt, i.e. December 31, 1989.
Implementation of the second project was scheduled to be completed by June
30, 1989, ln a three-y-e'  period.  The main works were completed at that
time, except for the reconstruction of public buildings Ln Toamasina, bec-ause
of the failure of the main contractor, and 94.2% of Credit 1526-1-MAG was
disbursed, as of June 30, 1989.
Procursmen
1.16     Procurement actlon proceeded on time and satisfactorlly, as Decree
No.84/236, of July 18, 1984, allowed for expedltlng the procurement process.
The bidding process for the major works on road RN4 and the raconstruction of
the Amboromalandy Dike were started ln June 1984, and the contract was slgned
in August 1984, i.e. after works were inltiated. These very urgent works had
to be completed before the ralny season, whlch begins ln December, because
this dike protects the rice fields (80,000 ha) against flood. As a matter of
fact, they were completed on December 10, 1984, two months before Credit
effectiveness.   For the second project, the urgent repalr works to the
breakwater of the port of Toamaslna started in December 1986, only one week
after Credit effectlveness.
1.17     The main problem faced durlng the implementatLon period was the
award of the reconstruction contracts for public buildLngs in ToamasLna. The
Ministry of Public Works proposed to dlvlde the flrst phase in smll
contracts, in order to award these contracts to local fiLme wlthout exceseLve
risks, and the Bank agreed with this approach. Four eontracts were awarded
to four different contractors. Before this phase was completed, CNC proposed
to award the rest of fn  reconstructLon works to one of tham, which was
presented as the best %..ntractor, its contract was amended, and the Bank
agreed on June 10, 1987.  As a matter of fact, ln July 1988, the works
executed by the three other contractors were satisfactorily completed, but
not those executed by the one who was considered the best, and at the end of
1988, it was clear tha; this contractor was unable to perform lts job. A
supervision mission, in February 1989, proposed to terminate thli contract,
but CNC preferred to glve more responsLb_.ity to the consulting flrm, which
was asked to manage the works itself. The result was relatively good, but
with additional costs and delays.   Nevertheless,  it li  clear that this
amendment would not hAve been possLble without the decree 84/236, requested
by the Bank to expedite procurement. This was the only negative effect of
this decree, otherwiLs very useful.



1.18     The comparison between appraisal estimates and actual costs of the
project is shown in Part UII, section 4. The appraisal cost estimates were
US$ 27.7 million and 16.8 million and the final costs were US$ 28.4 million
and 16.3 million, or for the total of the two credits, US$ 44.5 and 44.8
million, respectively. This represents a cost overrun of 0.55% of the total
project cost.  Cost overruns under the roads and airport components were
absorbed through adjustments to the public buildings component.
DigbUrsements
1.19     Actual disbursements from the Creo.t by year compared with appraisal
estimates are given in Part TTI, section 3. Disbursements took place over
two years and a half for Credit 1526-0-MG and three years for Credit 1526-1-
MAG, as estimated at appraisal, or five years for the two credits. Since the
project was an emergency project, no comparison can be done with the
Madagascar profile which indicates a period of seven years. The original
closing date of June 30, 1987 could have been respected, but the Amending
Agreement prepared for the supplemental credit changed the closing d-,e to
necarber 31, 1989, for the two credits.
Credit Allocation
1.20     The original and revised allocations, and actual disbursements for
Credits 1526-0-MAG and 1526-1-MAG are shown Jr section 3, Part III. Ther*
was no formal reallocation.  Categories 5 (initial deposit to the Special
Accouvt), 7 (unallocated) and partly category 6 (refunding of PPF) were use#
to compensate for categories 1 and 2 (civil works and equipment) which wer*
overdrawn by US $ 3.9 and 1.9 million, respectively.
Financing
1.21     One of the main features of this project was to finance urgent works
by existing IDA credits, which were amended accordingly. In addition to the
IDA Credit 1526-0-MAG of US $ 15.0 million, three on-going project.
contributed funds towards certain urgent rehabilitation needs in their
respective sectors: (a) the Second Education Project (Credit 663-MAG) had a
remaining balance of US S 700,000 after completion of the project, which was
used for emergency school repairs; (b) US $ 2.0 million from the Water and
Sanitation Project (Credit 1002-HAG) was used for rehabilitation of JIRAMA's
facilities, and for the urban and drainage study of Mahajanga; and (c) the
Sixth Highway Project (Credits 1391-MG and SF4-MAG) contributed for an
amount of US 5.0.5 million towards urgent works on RN4 and reconstruction of
t%o Amboromalandy Dike.
1.22     Following Cyclone Bonorinina, in addition to the IDA Credit 1526-1-
MAG, the Third Railways Project (Credit 1694-MAG), approved by the Board on
May 8, 1986, included US $ 1.0 million for the rehabWlitation of the
breakwater of the Toamasina Port.  Finally, only SDR 549,321.38 was used,
entirely for studies and supervision of the works.
1.23     At the time of the appraisal of the first cyclone project, in April
1984, the OPEC Fund manifested its interest in participating to the
reconstruction effort, particularly for the port component. A loan of US $
2.2 million was approved by the OPEC Board in December 1984 and signed on
December 21, 1984. In a telex of December 7, 1984, OPEC requested that the
administration of their loan be taken up by IDA, and wished to note, however,
that disbursoments on their loan could not commenco until arrears due to the
Fund were settled. It was proposed to allocate the OPEC funds to the ports
of Mahajanga and Antsiranana, and to the Antniranana airport. An agreement
between IDA and the Fund was signed in January 1985, and the OPEC Fund Loan



-6-
No.367P was declared *ffective On May !O0, 1985.  OPZC informed IDA by telex
of May 22, 1985, and specified agair that "no disbursements would be made
fr=. sald loan pending settlement of issue of arrears on Fund's other loans
to MadagascarO. Since no disburs_ment authorizatLon was given by OPEC, this
loan was never utilized.
IF. Prolact Results
Proiect Obiectives
1.24     Overall., the project was successful  in meeting its principal
objectives oft (a) rehabilitating infrastructure damaged by Cyclones Kamisy
and Honorininai (b) establishing a permanent Lnstitution (CNC) to coordinate
reconstruction of forta; and (c) developing construction standards to minimize
the potential damage from natural disasters in the future.
Physical Results
1.25     The physical targets of the project were achieved substantLally as
planned and even beyond. At the end. of the project, the Bank extended its
financing to the resurfacing of the Toamasina roads, not initially included
in the project but deeply needed.
Institutional Performance
1.26     The  success  of  the  project  is  mainly  due  to  the  Nationa&
Coordination Committee (CNC), required by the appraisal mission an
established as early as July 1984. The project start up was greatly helped
by two consultants who defined clearly the procedures and responsibilities of
the various agencies involved and prepared an efficient control system.
1.27     As requested by the Bank, CNC was under the responsibility of the
Finance Minister. Nevertheless, for lack of available space in the Finance
Ministry, CNC was located in the Ministry of Public Works (MTP), which was by
and large the principal executing agency (for a total cost of US $ 24.0
millLon, or 54% of the total project cost). prom the beginning, MTP tried to
take over the management of the project, and the Bank had to resist
continuously this trend which would have jeopardized the institutional
arrangements, since the other ministries would accept coordination from the
Finance ministry but not from MTP. In the mlnutes of a MTP-CNC meeting of
January 2, 1985, it was stated that the consultants of CNC would be the
advisors to the MTP MLnister, and that CNC would not be authorized to visit
the works. This was dropped after a strong negative reactLon from the Bank.
In February 1985, MTP proposed to reinforce CNC by the recruitment of a local
management speciallit, and the Bank agred. On November 6, 1985, the Bank
received a telex from MTP proposing to terminate the contracts of the two
foreign experts of CNC, and to keep le local manag ement specLalist untll the
closLng dato. The Bank reacted strongly and insiLted on the ned to have ac
least one foreign expert until project complotion, which was eventually
agreed.
'Financial P-rformance
1.28     The project accounts were regularly audited by an external audltor,
and the reports were reccived (with some dolay) by the Bank. There was so"e
discussion on the presentation of the accounts, because CNC prepared the
accounts in FMg, in US $ and in SDR. Nevertheless, the auditor never raised
any important problem.



-7-
0. Proleat gm    iitv
1.29        The project has had signifLcant benefits in implementing new
institutional and financial arrangements for efficient reconstruction
after natural dioasters. CNC was able to cope with Cyclone Nonorininina in
1986, with the help-of ZDA, and with Cyclone Calasanjy in 1989. Permanent
staff of CNC is paid by the Ministry of Finance, and they have been able
to racruit consultants when necessary, particularly the control and
supervision consulting firm, who helped CNC for the public building
component of the project. CNC has however been much less active with the
last two cyclones (Alibera in 1990 and Cynthia in 1991), which is casting
some doubt on its sustainability.
H. Bank Performance
1.30     IDA supervision was relatively .ontinuous, as no change in task
manager  occurred during the life of the project.  Supervision was also
intensive since, during the implementation period, a total of fourteen
supervision missions visited Madagascar in five years.   Ten supervision
mission were shared with other projects: Water and Sanitation Project, then
Tana Plain Project. The number of staff-weeks spent on this project, by task,
is given below:
EX             14  1985   1986  197           I9    1990       Total
LOP             1.5   6.5   0.8   1.2                           10 0
LENP            5.8                                              5.8
LENA            9.4  10.4   5.6                                 25.4
LENN                  4.8          1.0                           5.8
PAD                   3.2          0.1                           3.3
SPN                  20.5  14.4  11.1   9.8   2.8   2.3         60.9
TOTAL          16.7  45 4 20&  ILA 4           9  8   U2       111.2
1.31     This represents a total of 111.2 staff-weeks for the whole cycle of
this twofold project.  The detail of the missions is given in Part llI,
sect .6.
1.32     IDA performance has been good.  The best criterion is the elapsed
time between appraisal and Board prosentation: five months and 25 days for
the first credit and three months and 8 days for the second one. The project
was well appraised and supervised, with a good coordination between the
Power, Transportation and Urban and Water Supply Divisions.
I. orrox   Perfor  nco
1.33     On both the technical and financial sideo, CNC's performance was
excellents  he bldding process and bid evaluation reports were prepared on
time, without any procurement problems, and within the appraloal cost
estimates. The only exception was the award of an important contract to a
contractor without sufficient experience (para.5 04). Payment requests were
submitted on time to the Treasury, and the payments to the contractors were
generally done in a reasonable period of time.
1.34     Quarterly reports were submitted by CNC to IDA in a timely manner.
An independant auditor was retained by CNC for its own accounts. Audited
accounts were prepared regularly through March 1990. Delays occurred at the
beginning, but generally th a*udit reports were received within nine months
after the end of the fiscal year, instead of mix months as required by the
Credit Agreement (section 4.01.b).



1.35     CWc's contribution to the PCR consists of reports on the physical
components of the project, given in Part SI, and flnanclal data, which have
been used for Part IS.
J. Proidct Relationuh
1.36     IDA relatLonship wlth CNC on the project has been very good.  The
relationship with the Government was disturbed at the beginning by the
efforts of NTP to take over responiLbilitles of CNC. RelatLonships between
the Borrower and the contractors and consultants were also very good, with
the exception of the foreLgn consultant of CNC (see para.6.04).
1.37     The success of the constructLon component, carried out on a timely
and satisfactory manner, within the framework of the appraisal cost
estimates, could not have been attained without the quallty of consultant
inputs that were received during the project appralcal and implementation
periods.
L. Prolect Docueation and Data
1.38     Original documentation for the project was adequate and appropriate
The President's Report of the project provided a useful framework for bot;
IDA and CNC for revliw of project implementation,J



-9.
PROJECT COMPLETION REP1RT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-MAG)
AND
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
(CREDIT 1526-1-MAG)
PART II: A. LETTER AND COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT ON PARTS I AND III
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND BUDGET                        Antananarivo, June 17, 1991
GENERAL SECRETARIAT
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF EXPENDITURE            THE MINISTER OF FINANCE AND BUDGET
AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT
to
NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE
FOR CYCLONE RELIEF                               Mr. Marc BLANC
Chief, Infrastructure Operations Div.
---                            South Central and Indian Ocean Dept.
P.O. BOX 5123                                   Africa Region
---                                  THE WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON, DC 20433
Ref.:  140/MFB/SG/DGDI/CNC.                       U.S.A.
Subject: Cyclone Rehabilitation Project
Credit 1526-MAG
Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Blanc:
You have asked me to provide information for Part II of the Project
Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Bank. In the same communication, you
indicated that the completion report prepared by the Permanent Secretariat of the
National Coordinating Committee (CNC) in June 1990 could, with some additions,
form the basis for the aforesaid Part II.
I am of the opinion that the Borrower's views have been well
represented in the CNC report and correspond to those of the Bank as set forth
in explicit detail in Part I of its PCR.
In light of the foregoing, -I have the honor to request you to prepare
Part II of the PCR from the basic information presented by CNC in its report and
to draw this up in whatever format you deem most appropriate.
Further to the CNC report, I take the liberty of enclosing a brief
memorandum of comments that could be inserted in Part II of the Bank's PCR.
Yours, etc.,
I/s Leon M. Rajaobelina



- 10 -
MNMORANDUM
of additional comments on
the evaluation of Project 1526-MAG
"Cyclone Rehabilitation"
As an emergency project, 1526-MAG was a convincing achievement having
regard to the time constraints to which its implementation was subject.
The Borrower shares the Bank's view of the excellent results
achieved, reflecting as they did the good relationship between the parties.
The operation was successful overall, despite the problems that it
encountered. It was not an easy operation: slippages and shortcomings were
experienced, such as the difficulties small contractors faced in controlling
cheir costs, despite the establishment of a system of prefinancing by the pilot
companies. These shortcomings were at the root of the problem referred to in
section 5.04 of Part I.
It should also be noted that a number of modifications affecting thf
final eligibility of works were ordered during impLementation of the project
resulting in uncertainties at the worksites. -
As a consequence. CNC chose not to cancel contracts, considering it
more useful to complete works even though delays could no longer be made up.
To remedy these shortcomings, an adjustment in conditions would be
desirable, particularly as regards contract awards, so that the lowest bidder is
not automatically selected (the source of problems as noted).
The credit agreements also need to be revised in order to ensure that
procedures take account of the fact that the cyclone rehabilitation project is
an emergency operation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-MAG)
AND
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
(CREDIT 1526-1-MAG)
PAPT II: B. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.         ANz Q lUCTION
The damage caused by cyclone Kamisy was so extensive that the
Democratic Republic of Madagascar was obligad to ask for World Bank assistance
for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of economic and social
infrastructure. The Bank quickly responded to this appeal and decided to
assist the rehabilitation process in the areas most seriously affected,
espocially Antsiranana and Mahajanga.
The necessary structural and organizational arrangements were made
in conjunction with a Bank mission, with a view to preparing and implementing a
quantified rehabilitation program. This program was financed by Credit
1526-0-MAG in the amount of SDR 14,800,000, the Crodit Agreemenc being signed,
on December 6 , 1984.
Although the first of its kind, the project got under way smoothly.
Implementation was at an advanced stage when the cyclone Honorinina hit the
eascern part of Kadagascar or March 15, 1986. It devastated the Toamasina
region, damaging key infrastructures and prejudicing the economic prospects for
1986. As a result it became necessary to revise the application area of the
Kamisy project and related financing needs, especially in foreign exchange.
The revised rehabilitation program required a level of imports of
goods and equipment that was beyond Madagascar's available foreign payments
capacity. Consequently, a request for emergency assistance was addressed to
foreign donors, to which the World Bank responded. The request from the
Government to IDA was approved by the Bank's Bo, -d in the form of an additional
credit of SDR 8,800,000, formalized by an Amendi,r Agreement to the initial
Credit Agreement. This additional contribution, in the shape of Credit
1526-1-KAG, raisea the overall Lmount of Bank resources made available for
cvclone rehabilitation to SDR 23,500,000. This substantial sum was to finance
a program in various sectors and its management led to the establishment of a
National Coordinating Comittee (CNC) to oversee the rehabilitation work.
In addition to its coordinating role, CNC utilized technical
assistance to identify anti-cyclone standards designed to prevent or at leassc
alleviate the destructive impact of such storms.  In brief, project preparate 
ani execution was governed by the objectives being pursued.
1.    Project Preparation and Deflnition
The project was planned in light of clearly identified objective.
namely:



- 12 -
rehabllitate physical and economic infrastructure in the regions
dmaged by the cyclones KUmisy and Honorinina;
rationalize institutional arrangements so as to ensure effective
coordlnation of the program to be implemented;
-     deraie the actions required to minimize the risk of damage when
na':;r  catastrophes strike vulnerable regions.
Given the urgent nature of the work to be performed, the structure
of the project was governed by the need for coordination and rapid action.
Hence an agency responsible for coordinating and supervising program
implementation was established at the suggestion of the World Bank. From the
start this was a centralized but relatively flexible organization that evolved
over time to become the current CNC, which meshes with regional committees in
accordance with Decree No. 84,443 of December 14, 1984 concerning the
establishment and functions of the CNC, whose organization chart and functional
structure are shown in the tables on pages 4 and 5.



- 13 -
Organization Chart
CNC             .CNCP
CNC                        CNCO
SP l
CRCP
EII
CRCO
Kes                    ~~~~~Acronyms:
Hierarchical link        CNC:  Comwit National de Coordination (N^tional
Coordinating Comittee)
Functional link          CNCP: Corlte NMalonal de Coordinatlon Plenier (?e.
National Coordinating Committee
CNCC: Comit National de Coordination Opdration'e:
(National Coordinating Committee for Opera:-
SP:   Socricariat Permanent (Permanent Secretar:1
CRCP: Comicd Regional de Coordination PlUnler ?
Regional Coordinating Committee
CRCO: Comite Regional de Coordinatlon OpdratLor-.
(Regional Coordinating Committee for Operv



-14-
Synoptic Chart of the Structural and Functional Organization of CNC
Functions
Participations                       Actions
Structures                  (make-up)                        (functions)
Ministry of Finance and     Damage appraisal
Budget
Ministerial Departments     Definition of priorities
CNCP                of which the ex DGP          Exploration and coordination of
financing
BCRM                        Political definition and program
JIRAMA                      Monitoring progress of operations
Commercial Banks + SP       Identification of blockages
Chairman of CNCP            Execution of CNCP program
CNS Representative          Solutions to financial/legal/
technical problems
The DGP, now MPE            Contract awards
CNCO                MTP Representative           Preparation of financing
documents
MPARA Representative + SP   Determining conditions for
allocating grants and assistance
Works supervision
CE/Faritany members         Cooperation with CNCP at regional
CRCP                Representatives of Minis-   level
terial Departments + OE
_________________ * SG/Faritany
CRCO                Faritany Representative      Cooperation with CNCO at regional
Head of logistical          level
?Permanent Secretariat
______________ _   "TP                                        I
As noted above, it was CNC's task to manage the funds made
available through Credits 1526-0-MAG and 1526-1-MAG.
* T.N.      Not all the abbreviations used here are clear to those unfamiliar
with the project (i.e. neither fully legible nor explained). Here
as elsewhere in the tables in this report a very compressed
approach is used.



- 15 -
1.1   Credlt 1526-0-MAG
As per Scheduie 1 of the Credit Agreement, the funds allocated to
each category wore as follows:
Ca5te=cy                                                Amount
(hin SDRs)
1.   Works                                                  3,900,000
2.   Goods                                                  1,900,000
3.   Consultants                                              900,000
4.   Housing credits under part G of the project            1,900,000
5.   Initial deposit in Special Accourt to                  2,900,000
prefinance works, goods or services under
categories 1 through 4 above
6.   Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                  900,000
7.  Unallocated                                             2 400 OOQ
Total                           14,800,000
These categories cover the following components:
Comonent                       Designation
A                            Ports
B                            Airports
C                            Highways
D                            Buildings
E                            FIFABE
G                            Housing
H                            Consultants
J                            JIkAKA



- 16 -
1.2   Credit 1526-1-MAC
The Amending Agreement to the initial Credit Agreement resulted in
an additional Credit of SDR 8,800,000, allocated as follows:
Categorv                                                       Amount
(in SDRs)
(l)(a)   Works other than those referred to under            3,830,000
category (l)(b) and (1)(c) below
(l)(b)   Works under part A (iii) of the Project            4,020,000
(Ports)
(l)(c)   Works under part B (v) of the Project                  48,000
(ASECNA)
(2)(a)   Goods                                                  S0,000
(2)(b)   Navigation aid equipment                              140,000
(3)      Consultants                                           712 000
Total                           8,800,000
This covered the following components:
Categ2xX                              Designation
A                                   Ports
B                                   ASECNA
C                                   Highways
D                                   Buildings
G                                   Consultants
H                                   JIRAMA



- 17 -
For both 1526-0-MAG and 1526-1-MAG, the details of the work
*xecutee  under each component is identified in the documents annexed co the
Amending Agreemnt to the Credit Agreement; it is therefore unnecessary to
repeat them in this report, which it was agreed should be a summary document.
However, details on each part of the project are given in the annex to meet
possible information requirements.
Thus defined and organized, the programs were executed within the
same institutional framework but at different periods extending over two and a
half years, in view of the fact that some components were implemented under
the supplementary Credit.
2.    Technical Execution of the Project
Both for credit 1526-0-MAG and for 1526-1-MAG the responsible
sector institutions were in charge of executing the subsector components of
the project, namely: the Ministry of Transport as regards port and airport
infrastructures (through SEPT and ASECNA), the Ministry of Public Works as
regards highways and public buildings, and the Miniatry of Mines and Industry.
through JIRAMA. Thus, for the works themselves, these agencies were the maid
contractors while CNC was the implementing authority. To ensure its
effectiveness in this capacicy CNC had recourse to technical assistance from
BCEOM for Credit 1526-0-MAG and from SOCOTEC-MADAGASCAR for Credit 1526-1-MAG,
since technical execution of the project required the intervention of
specialists.
2.1   Technical execution
In technical terms it was noe enough merely to carry out repairs
for their own sake. It was also necessary to adopt techniques designed to
provide adequate protection of infrastructures against natural disasters. It
was recognized that, to achieve this aim, particularly where housing was
concerned, structures needed to be reinforced using anti-cyclone standards in
the zones subject to serious risk. Apart from this technical criterion, time
was the determining factor in the award and execution of contracts.
2.1.1 Contract award
Since the rehabilitation was designed to restore normal social and
economic activities as soon as possible in the affected areas, the need for
quick action governed the choice and execution of the activities to be
undertaken. It was therefore necessary to waive certain regulations, which
prompted Decree No. 84,236 of July 18, 1984 setting aside certain provisions
of-Decree No. 70,089 of January 28, 1980 governing public contracts,
specifically as regards contracts awarded in the aftermath of natural
disasters. Contracts were then awarded on this basis. As regards execution.
contracts were entrusted dtrectly to designated companies, inspection and
oversight being performed either directly by the organizations responsible -Or
each component or through the consultants providing technical assistance to
CNC.



- 18 -
2.1.2 Contract execution
Project *ffec'tiveness depended to a great extent on the proper
execution of services (goods and works). To achieve this, particular
importance was attached to monitoring costs, execution periods and the quality
of operatLns, which tasks were made the responsibility of professionals such
as BCEOM and SOCOTEC-HADACASCAR. This recourse to experts was all the more
justified insofar as the geographic dispersion of work sites required a
considerable level of organization.
The tables on pages 9, 10 and 11 show seivices provided under
Cradits 1526-0-MAG and 1526-1-MAG respectively. An analysis of these tables
reveals cases both of noteworthy performance and also some shortcoming. Among
the former, mention should be made of the excellent performance by companies
such as COLAS. Clearly, situations occurred in which the final costs exceeded
the initial contract amounes, either because they involved additional works or
because of a fall in the exchange rate (for external payments).
While a number of companies honorably fulfilled their commitments,
others demonstrated shortcomings, not to say incompetence. Clearly, one or
more factors beyond the firms' control may have contributed to this 3ituation
(for example, supply difficulties resulting from an unfavorable economic
situation). But ought not a company's effectiveness to be judged by its
ability to overcome difficulties? However, this report ought not to be a
subjective document; in order to remain objective it will focus on overall
results.
2.1.3       Actions and results
Despite the difficulties encountered since the project became
effective, it is quite proper, now that it is completed, to say that the
results have been positive, thanks to the determination shown by the various
parties involved, viz, the World Bank, CNC and its technical assistants, and
the companies. It should be recognized that the joint efforts of these
institutions and agents made the project a success, and an overview of these
efforts is appropriate here.
The World Bank sent more than 12 missions to Madagascar in the
course of the project. Mission personnel did not stint their time in visiting
work sites with the Madagascar officials responsible for the project. Each
mission provided an occaston for briefings and consultations with a view to
ensuring the saooth prograss of the project. As a result, difficulties were
either alleviated or resolved and errors corrected, since mistakes were indeed
made as a result of the imperative need for quick action. These difficulties
and errors did not always make it easy to maintain the project execution
schedule. The reports prepared as aide-m6moires at the conclusion of each Bar.k
mission provide details of the situation at that time and the measures taken or
proposed. This Bank supervision carefully complemented the works monitoring
and oversight operations carried out initially by BCEOfl and subsequently by
SOCOTEC.



- 09-
These monitoring and supervision tasks were energetically
performed. In addition to their conventional monitoring, those concerned also
had to ensure that the companies involved mastered anti-cyclone techniques. In
addition, SOCOTEC-MADAGASCAR issued a booklet of construction standards
applicable to buildings erac- d in areas of high cyclone risk. This document,
approved by the Ministry of Housing, was an integral part of the TBM and
referred to the contracts to be awarded by the Madagascar authorities. The
booklet was especially invaluable to medium-sized firms, since a company of the
dimensions of COtAS, headed by experts, had no difficulty in mastering all the
techniques involved.
Given the spirit in which works monitorlng and supervision was
carried out, execution periods were more or less observed, excepc for the works
undertaken by COGENAL. As a result of the considerable amount of work
allocated to it, this firm experienced procurement problems because of failures
by suppliers of wood; only COGENAL's solid financial position enabled these
problems to be overcome. COGENAL was not the only company to be let down by
suppliers; smaller companies experienced these difficulties also.
Nevertheless, the special case of COGENAL aside, the works were
completed and accepted before the project completion date, namely December 31
1989. The acceptance process was not without its problems, however, especialzy
where housing was concerned. Frequently these works could not be accepted oil
the date proposed by the companies because of defects in subsidiary works or
the failure to observe professional standards. The major works, on the other
hand, were correctly and swiftly completed.
This overview of the technical execution of the project is followed
by a section on its financial execution.
3.    Financial Execution of the Project
In accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement, the
prompt availability of funds for project operations was ensured through the
utilization of a Special Account (in US$) and a Project Advance Account (in
local currency), both opened with the Central Bank of Madagascar. The Special
Ac zount was replenished using the proceeds of the Credit, while the Project
Advance Account was replenished by local counterpart funds.
Transactions in these accounts took place on the instructions of
the Madagascar Treasury. CNC maintained the accounts relating to project
resources and *xpenditures on the basis of bank advices sent to it more or less
regularly. Disbursements were made on presentation of payment orders, the
sequence of procedures being schematically illustrated in the tables on pp. 15
and 16.
CNC prepared monthly reports on the financial situation of the
project which were communicated to all those concerned.
On completion of the project a detailed financial statement, broke-
down by components (including those that were the subject of subsidiary or



- 20 -
special agresmnts). was prepared and circulated. It was felt useful in this
report to supplemnt this information by calculating the deviation between
projections and outcomes.
The results of these calculations are given in the tables on p. 18.
They show that there was an overrun of SDR 92,909.24 in relation to Credit
1526-0-MAG, while Credit 1526-1-MAG shows a balance of SDR 509,102.19 [sic:
error for SDM 590,102.191; the consolidation of these two figures gives a
balance of SDR 497,192.95.
3.1  Origin of the balance
This balance is principally the result of the conversion method
used by CNC, involving the use for its payment applications of the same
exchange rate as that utilized by the World Bank for the most recent
replenishment. Consequently, the balance can only have a relative value in the
eyes of the Bank, which uses the spot exchange rate for all its operations.
The audit report of June 8. 1990 describes these two different methods, which
can only lead to ... [illegible) between CNC's figures and those of the Bank.
However, the audit arrived at the same figure for the balance as did CNC,
noting that the detailed breakdown of expenditure by component and category
properly and accurately reflects the expenditures made by CNC.
This description of project preparation and execution enables the
following conclusions to be drawn.



tAM         0   t                  1I      U. I            ES. I   a         in. 3         PEi le       "It                  awlace   a ae t                          w mi jusmm:1
I _________          mnthsb ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ "ea                        .if
I  r.iwsm uuaaa  t           :     612.669.246.0011                                         a        6161   O9jIi           0126                      WLCamii,    i
I   iMOmlalba  1 33.419.M6.0                                                                        04/2116I11175                         011         1CUK SWU tll
TAlISIMAM          2.549.5.0  tl                                                           1      0011216                 0910346                   Wl  OFF:C
|  EtC        2         Q                                                                                 021151as    o                         CRA.0  M  v19S  vow
sasaCOGE urm        's3.1."                                                                                               rm a t0/31 64t   l/S  s      ave  mmi eua
I                      IG 39  7                             I                I          I              0/f764      61UQ65
ICOrA             *1.5ut W                                                         If   1                                                                  SCUtl
I                        I                 ~~~~~~~           ~~~         ~     ~~~~~~012665  06208  as   MSEN.t
I                                                                                                                    aE C0 1  19  U5/BU9f5        CUf aUS 1    ML
ArArA fUa.wsi.,                                                                   I                         II
EtC O             5136600                                                               t I                                                       F IE 5mNCUTOS     CE
_______     0365Usa        257.6,12.960-4                                                                               ___                                   IIMIU    B  US HI
CIRELIA        9I.Iss,270.0                                                            2       06B        06tO/        07/0916                    so I    SA    AND aB so 1  C fUE
fCA 5hi6.1F.2O0.S                                                                       I t  t  10/045                                         t /14/65  CQ I UC
C"E'fIA           *9340e.00.00                                                          2       0 i/vol   i04U5s     ij 14:: NB I :::Crn:C sEc
I    CINI'II    I    1.934.Qa I                                                                                j                                     I 10  I      t oupU "Br
ELECIIMO   1  3.721040                                                                       112,5      2166       1/7161I119  IIM   LEtI HM
LUIIM             2S26.936.0                                                            4       11/20/115    12/46                               AL      men$W
'                    6t.270.     e          '.6'                                        *    S        0/ft141      OU                                  PCIAII SUES  FO1WeL
| 'Ulu0    I |    .6u2.flI.0                                                         14 dons  |0172U S   0111| 1l InS   1211016                I CtlEILLM f     P  ialS
*ITSE      4   s5s  000eeo.00 4                 4                                      22 U     02/12116            i             i            i CIVIL fEm     iEl   i S     ST r3102-VON
FV                                                                                 no                A Oz1                   '* .ee  a0             C     t  alulFn        -   lT
;      III      ;'1107 96 649.00                      ;                ;                           4. 4K ;_____ ;                                      imasims ;m ; Sm SaImI AEIUt)
4.***.D1:M:0  5                                _ _ _ _ _ __                      Zl                 0/0
s0  j  ae5.ee0.00 j   31   14.0.0    4j22.9S.762.00   470,604.012.00    30   w 013I U    11/04                    1              TiCs. £St. TO aO
AIBISAIMASCAB       4.4565.0II                                                                              I                                         ALAMA   OILEGlaII  To 11136100
UisAn.naSOI    4.60o.s.                             I Qett                                  2       61291    05/30/3                  I            Iie     1965 MalT
cinc     I        sn.wa.  1                   1                 1                                       I          I                            MVN  CfO PF297
IAW c sNIsO          3.496 .Soo00                                                                              OsiZUG? 4  _   03/23/61               to" 1lEn
MUSAIEX                         ______ ______ ______                                           jjI23 1j                            j             1U IES/IW3IEMOTEflE5ISUUII



_      MS UIl            Imtf   u MlOltfI  LOMIAC                  "PM"A                  PJVSI            f  1
ctt6 lFB 1  sMeam     la       Am   t      UI        .  I            go.  a2         DO     .3  gfZl m         04f1E       Ulf.     ACCEPIUM       ACCsP-IM                         a   m m    am
:  :  _ tzml - } _ ^I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE                                                       DAVE
tamee  eDe80 .etO                 SeDeeeee                                          12       Il826/6    *}rSon5                                  IEtOCl  AlU SISIAIIt  RV POW 11N
O1gSs        111.111.372.         n 22r ell.ee                                      4 5                  DIMArs       ezrJX  S       eP01018      WUf s FOR CAPTIN'S A_t ZIN
Its          as.9 PeD.4a.      e 5. ". e.4                                          2       02nrses5   elAresS       06/121 SSlftT a t"SULTION N God
RELKlO          4 ros et0 ee            *                                                                                                              S:  cOSIE, Guist. om _m
lieu         261.4Z1.011.00          19.011.011   32*69011.051.00      29                            0,                                                    *ssa21XX us2m aw     "A I  t
Slf BACOT        4 1^,4f5.00         *                                                                     a GSrsD0 /10ED5                         samelt    w1         P(
"EON     t    11 Jl n *SY.01     102S32.o0lr.00    J,      1     I                   2                                               6S9lUl/* it5!             ilOt &          A     IS
flx   S 2r0 s2D 0D   .  .   .   .              t       0U2reDS 1 esilsAscut. tl a; . II mJInIm
SIP      I       ,SA4CS?                                                              1       0S/2/18 f 0O/10/"                                           . ACSU.t'  m lt
SEPl     ,   2rw0Do 0DD.00                                                          24                   U/0719o SEPT tmihliss
sIEty           65.253.136.00                                                          4       0}10108532.900.0  l. FD  s  040 P1 os         m o                                         i.to  m,alWS
MERI&ANatNala     S so89 9m.00                                                           3         f{S 0 S068    09/02/n  41126/4        06.0tsZ      LIGNIMOS/0J1.U " . I           tIVAA  A If ral
116/51*U        53.290.625.00                                                                  O 4S/0l                                             Sfl*t os1/ IICAISi
I   CtAo O          9.240.000.00                                                     1 21 4ys  to/18/f"    11S/1/4                                 U1lE1  IlAWCIlIU
Its flS          19os60.00                          i                                     2        11/23/4   12/15/64      05106S)5       06/09/66    WItIN REAu u
ElIEU6111 I    19ff9l.40Dr.oo      24U6ss.9Dr.o0                                      10      1 12/01/64                1/09/aS                    mot  CAPIAIuS  OfFlE.  ULJAa"
F1il     E   a .310.fSr.e                      i                                     9       0 1117/64 t 0GZMMf                                |                 .--glNuap* umaDsImn beDGs
GSiwN       is16.000.000.00                     *16    101/24/S5   02101165                                                                       uwiGATIaua  AIDS 
DARINS        40.637. 106.00                                                          4       12//;l64                 10/14/6S     |_            E0IP                                                  I
i COLAS          20.2n.165. ODZ  ERO       llA218U                                                                                                  gs  tSVT 71C"ItJII
;E_ rea            44n7125,41.00                 _                                          ; E   O   jmSaMt i06 MOKc ON waLtoINS.
w As    I   311..630.00                         I                               I    s       02t13/6s  oIn19/83 0;1191ss             07/25/66  1 t5AlS TO BUBlaIS_ .AJTS
E 001    i    43.912.900.00 I   632s4,6Wa.00                                         3    j  10111 01I 01.25            6/66                     ci Wit 101u51S    van, uAJAUA,
;      Ct         7T .79401l.00 I                    i                                          1 02)11/65  s2/19/6  I   aisi"/Ss         07/12) 6     U 369*35 10 gitb    IS
'                  31, 3.5S32.0|    43,912.090.00 |                                               07/06/as | 01/22165      a,1ws.                       at | t  ws EKAIsUel ms
ECOAS         20.926.5oD.00                                                     I    -       AZ//i ,0 M1 tI I /S
t_ _  AlICiA      904.112 394.00   _ ____                                                       1 t   I    -    X  .S                                                S
I                               I;         I DCI   I 1 s1r 4rs l40.eo 1   1   1   3    S1    | 05/26/61 | a9130/U  |  I  I   S
i t^^i        1.4rs7  ae14z z9.34.0                                                     sT   roei/2 t181   05 on31/i 0nE                              PAIRS TO me,2r  am i St lllllSASil
OMA  1.6?.9?.0.0   2752913S4?0013                                            03308    06/SI/K  j  01/2$186          0127
eas           d6,15547L.00                                       *II                                     12/136                  *             * 5IgA3T 195iC1166 266
Ci AS      *.613:80i3717  OD                                                         14 i       5/4 12  ___9U  i 12/   MO V 11       12__8_        3AO GECMCSl       , MO
'I*         4     9    . 651                                                                    12fo  NS/84/6511226/MI _ ____ t 
SIgim         435.76I.M.00 3                                      II                            Ias    1          I               1             3 IECSICAL ASSISfAA,C5. U P alp
iltACf ,        90-000 o .ee00                                                        I           0/                                               PCAE Of/  S    ET /AI S
was      j36.693.613.00 J                                                           1        043/5       05/13/iS                              jiCML 01IlatsS tNAM
* IAISIAANAA   )  23S 62F.r .00 i                   I                                      0i              0I1 130/3    ifSt lC UILOIOS
Ecasnat   1   365499,661.86 1                  1                 2             1    5    2             2   iii    I              I                mis toam1   Os, mSI UAAA
o 66         96os033.0e.0111    112.052.190.00 DO                                            O/ 4    I 08/ 1985 2                       I       tOMat. fsCImICAL sti   a CIV. gEm.
TO1/ 14/64   1/2"           0,1  sG
'   ,    1S   2S'O314.0 S'Uo1                                                       I          lolz *   1 1022/64       05S15Sff                 1 PWIC  eultomiGS
* IAIs"           304 304.s.1002.00   3$9034.621.00 i.                !                         !                            //        _______    I          !s LtoSs



AMEMNEF    ANEIAU    Aftav.                               jPOVISIUL            F usNAL
COMIRACI      AWEON   1o          Man                 llo  I             no. 2              No I°  S      kcvo11*ACD   Ap tOarE   |   DaTI,  |acCEIazc   |ACCEPlAlNCE |winf mm                      l
EmnIhui _  _                                            j v  4  .;  DAIE     "If_
KEal          492,^,.Xe e00      ns,        2 oo00 2l  .11/20                                                 12/24/4b                                IEC AI          TO Coe
COSlfA uAs          52SS               2 .u2S   e                        I* m.m.0zo6e                                           0Son 0/3/                   euAlc   thas     ts gn a r
I                                   jz F                                  I                                                   19                              11CM   £111.10s 9   o |        s a2 M 0 n * e   v z 9a la U § E O ^lr ic "e l a a r
sWrAnae          N.2t.se.K         109.46324.00                      I                      ii      10/e/U    lails/U                                   ToiMSmf 11511  CorrSo
COLAS        21l47                          e           e                                        I K/oUU eU2Uu s/n9 ef   COSI/ nIICIIIIII
COLAS       31.4.18.ut37.Uo I    mo.9.0669.7.70                                        S       0/SI 07/it/2              41?,                      UPIKISE TOAiSM,      Pt &S
E I P S I A I I A   E  e U S  7 s e11.                               0                        9        t  /K /      / N        K    lnn W                   F O A M S [ " ul a
C| IK rscsl        0.481.6        S41.744, B0 59.5                  19 .                              /     0 !  e916g      12/09/19/I                 11=*1UC tO   Of5   alAUNIMS  Ulm
,~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~~90541O                                                               44,Eaz  09288       10/0,1/IS2   1209S 2iOSO                5ItAIi 02  UU1UiI lUNS.>           m
I  SECA2 91'13.M.00                                                                             6.1      09/02/81   09/19/U       0/n |5|EtIUtTlloI  A                           T   01-*me
UCC                                361.699,60.00    45?.092.30.00   522,01.440.00          31 *  ;                                                      AoN/  1S2'S/bISAI t oKIS   NA OWINO SWtlES)
*AiAi.lm            USA.40-00.    il71.S680.00                                                6        04/21/Il   05/2U/Il     03/11/6l       K8/0oli      anpftv Of cosrmgsgm  Time
I sg*Aei        S,2.48S.U          l6-4,1.i.IOO.K                                          6       04/2l/Il   05/22/8l                     i2/K/I9TimnFIER
NPISAROONAUUNI      11390.13.000.S0     1l.li13665.00                                           6       04/2i/I    WMA2,I                                  SWftf OF 68STINimD  TRAmED 
MIlaN           139.303.UO.U       96,420.706.00 j6                                                04/2r/61   OSZ289511ff                              SP0t  O AU 817*15         f0Uitili
COLAS          499,549,i14.00    igsw.6119.0G                       1                      .5      05/ia/Il                06/387 0912/U   204         SVTI m a ft c  ia tMM  aims
I                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIUcTII/uuiLoou  Li
AIDEIANIAVT 0.     34I.S3,14.00.O     i15.649.291.00                                           5       06102/17   06105/Il      06/10/69                    IUILSIMS ISPAIRS
1*Z1APUDtwe         5i,d05,9111.9                                                                                 Itlia?/I                                 WItlO =09  =1tfst Im  lme
#  SA         J                  j".0                                                                             K/Zl/nM INT -STIN S1*A5OWS
FO10I1A             i00I36,150.                                                                                  65/2v/5                                  ANII -STm  SIMOIMS
RnAiSiT5MeASO        ii.127.13i.U                                                                      o 0o/K     03/024/8       51/0                       9L 09  9 M baly stK  i
ta987            i.,444*9500.U                                                                             } 16/22/        09/22/68                   an!0  CUAIS T 0IOAIU    imes      F
________   IMI1SliiA lO        4.ii.507 .0 0 a _  _  _ __  _      __  _  _  __  _   _ __  _  _  __    _ _ __J                                                         90   M
AUCkS            9.4038.27012/8 2.806                                                                                                                   L6Et'T:O    W/630/1A
I  I   I       .    li/ta/U       li/li/U   ~~~~~~~~(I bI               t 09  mAID SPPIitmES)



- 24 -
spEcTAL ACCOMNT (SAl
Diagram of Document Flows:
CNC   2,I-  BC    CE
Application for payment or transfer of funds.A i
Oversight and verification .............. ..................
Order to pay or transfer funds             .      .      ..............0
Debit from SA ..........                                                      0\
Actual payment ............                                                .......
Debit advice .0
Symbols: .Abbrviati
A     forwarding of documents                DT:   Directorate of the Treasury
0.   oversight                               BC:   Central Bank
0     operation                              CE:   Foreign correspondent
E/B: Beneficiary company



- 25 _
PIOJECT ACC uN  Pl
Diagram of Document Flows:
Application for payment or transfer of funds .....
Oversight and verification .
Order to pay or transfer funds .\.
Debit from PA ...
Actual payment .                                                       .  B
Debit advice.
ffib5bgglm                                       AbbreviatiLon
A     forwarding of documents              PG:  Payment Office
a    oversight                             DT:  Directorate of the Treasury
0     operation                            BC:  Central Bank
E/B: Beneficiary company



- 26 -
IDA CREDIT 1526-0-MAG AT 03/30/90
Deviation between Estimated and Actual Costs, by Categories (SDR)
Expenditure
Category            Item                                             Deviation
Estimated     Actual               E - A
1      WORKS                      3,900,000  7,868,632.52   -3,968,632.52
2      EQUIPMENT                  1,900,000  3,793,921.68   -1,893,921.68
3      CONSULTANTS                  900,000    962,324.25        -62,324.25
4      HOUSING LOAN               1,900,000  1,742,204.30        157,795.70
5      INITIAL DEPOSIT            2,900,000           0.00    2,900,000.00
6      PPF297                       900,000    525,826.49        374,173.51
7      UNALLOCATED               2,400,000            0.00    2,400,000.00
TOTALS                   14,800,000 14,892,909.24        -92,909.24:
IDA CREDIT 1526-1-MAG AT 03/30/90
Deviation between Estimated and Actual Costs, by Categories (SDR)
Expenditure
Category             Item                                             Deviation
Estimated     Actual             E - A
IA     WORKS                         3,830,000  3,520,213.99    309,786.0:
1B     WORKS                         4,020,000  3,601,539.17    418,450.83
iC     CIVIL ENGINEERING ASECNA         48,000      23,055.65      24,944 .35
2A     SUPPLIES                         50,000    269,529.26   -219,529.26
2B     MATERIAL ASECNA                 140,000    100,073.02       39,926.94
3     CONSULTANT                      712,000    695,486.72       16,513.2i
TOTALS                        8,800,000  8,209,897.81    590,102. :



- 27 -
CONCW SIONS
Notwithstanding Lts wide geographLcal scope and the volume of
funds allocated to it, the "Cyclone Rehabilitation Projects was effectively
carried out vithin the proscribed period. ThLs was due to the fact that the
planning and execution of the project were characterized by a constructive
spirit that inspired both institutions and agents in thoir efforts to achieve
the project's aims.
Thls L vestment of resources was beneficial in both economLc and
social terms, given the scope of the work carried out in many sectors of the
economy and the signiflcant induced effects. These achievements must be
preserved through appropriate post-project measures, since the durability of
the rehabilitated infrastructures will depend on the maintenance work
performed on them.
The experience of this first project of its kind wvs rich in
useful informatLon and lessons for the future.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Description of che Project
Part A: Ports
The main objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower in: (i) carrying out a physical and economic rehabilitation program
for the areas of Madagascar damaged by recent cyclones; (ii) streamlining the
institutional arrangements appropriate for the efficient coordination of that
program; and (iii) helping develop measures to minimize the potential damage
from natural disasters to vulnerable areas of Madagascar. To thac end, the
Project consists of the followiug Parts:
Part A:     Ports
(i)      Mahajanga: rehabilitation of the Vuilleman and Barriquand wharves,
repair of offices, housing and warehouses and replacement or
repair of port equipment (navigational aids, launches, tugs and
spare parts).
(ii)      Antsiranana: rehabilitation of the old and new wharves,
restoration of buildings and housing, and replacement or repair of
port equipment (launches, navigational aids, tugs and spare
parts).
(iii)      Toamasina:  engineering for and repair of the breakwater.
Part B:     Airports and Metorological Stations
(i)      Mahajanga:  repair of air terminal, staff residences, hangar,
runway markings and runway drainage.
(ii)      Mahajanga:  repair or replacement of technical facilities and
equipment (including radio beacons, pylons, antennas, 1 receiver,
1 VHF omni range/DME station, 2 power units, and meteorological
equipment).
(iii)      Antsiranana:  repair of air terminal, technical facilities under
construction, hangar quarters, runway markings and runway
drainage; replacement or repair of equipment (1 radio station,
pylons and antenna, visual landing aids, fire engine, 1 power uni:
and meteorological equipment).
(iv)      Restoration of Mahajanga and Antsiranana meteorological scations
(including repair of technical buildings and quarters) and repair
of communication, telex and telephone equipment.
(v)      Toamasina: repair of buildings and replacement of navigation aid
equipment.



- 29 -
(i.)     Reconstruction of Amboromalandy dike, bridge and spillway on RN4.
(ii)      Rehabilitation of the road linking Marovoay to the RN4 (RN8).
(iii)      Repair work on RN5 and RN6 and in Sainte Marie island.
Part D:    Public Buildings
(i)      Repair of educational buildings (about 15 schools in Mahajanga and
about 15 schools in Antsiranana).
(ii)      Repair of other public buildings, administrative offices and
public housing (about 20 buildings in Mahajanga and 16 buildings
in Antsiranana).
(iii)      Repair of schools, health facilities and administrative offices in
Toamasina and Sainte Marie. island.
Part E:     Agriculture
(i)      Restoration of the FIFABE fleet by purchasing one tug and two
barges.
(ii)      Re-establishment of the FIFABE spare parts stock (spare parts for
diggers, pumps and power units).
(iii)      Repair of 15 FIFABE buildings at Marovoay and Mahajanga.
Part_-:     Housint Credits
Crecits to be provided by the Intermediaries to private owners for
the repair or rehabilitation of houses damaged by cyclones; such credits co be
p-ovided under the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this
St.nedule.
Part G:     Studies and Technical Assistance
(i)      Technical assistance to CNC to strengthen its managerial and
supervisory capabilLties.
(ii)      Technical assistance for supervision of Project execution.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1526-0-NAG)
AND
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
(CREDIT 1526-1-MAG)
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFOMAION
1. RELATED BANK CREDITS
CREDITS TO URBAN, WATER SUPPLY AND TRAUSPORT SECTOR
Credit Tftle                                                             Year of              Status                                                 0
Asoroval
Credit 1002-lC                      New production facilities, lmprovements to       1980      Csptleted in 1986           The  sanitation   canxnt  ga
Antanurivo llater and Sanitation   the water distribution network, drainage and                                            cancelled due to iqortant delas
sewerae for the low areas of the city
Credit 1497-PM                     Iproveoents   of   urban   services   in         1984      Almost completed
First Urban Project                 Antanhnarivo and Tomasina
Credit 2117-NA                      Flood control, drainage  nd sanitation in        1990      Just started                Inctudes sanitation component of
Antananarivo Plain Development      the low areas of the city, privatization of                                            Cr.1002-NG not iqlemented
the sewerage nd solid waste systems
Credit 1391-PM                      Road rehabilitation progrm minly on RN4          1984      Under iptlemmntation        Financed  works on RU& and  the
Sixth  ighiway Project               nW R"6                                                                                Aboroltandy dike for the CycLone
Credit 1696-M                                                                        1987      Under isplemwntation        Finencj the Toamasina Port for
Third Railiay Project                                                                                                      USS1.0 million
Credit 1ProjeC Rthabilitation progre_ of 9 ports                                     1987      Under iiplementation        Financed the Toa_sina Port for
Port Project                                                                                                               US#$1.0 million
CredHt IW-"Is-                      Road rehabilitation throughout the coumtry       1968      Under implementation
Seventh Highway Project



2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date                           Date                           Date
Item                         Planne                         Revised                         Acua
Identification and                                                                             May 1984             (a)
Appraisal missions                                                                             April 1986            (b)
Credit Negotiations               September 1984      (a)                                      September 1984        (a)
June 1986           (b)                                      June 1986            (b)
Board Approval                    October 30, 1984   (a)                                       October 30, 1984    (a)
August 05, 1986    (b)                                       August 05, 1986      (b)
Credit Signing                                                                                 December 06, 1984   (a)
August 18, 1986      (b)
Credit Effectiveness              January 25, 1985   (a)         February 25, 1985   (a)       February 25, 1985   (a)
November 16, 1986  (b)         January 19, 1987    (b)       December 09, 1986   (b)
Project Completion                December 31, 1986  (a,                                       December 31, 1986   (a)
June 30, 1989       (b)                                      December 31, 1989   (b)
Credit Closing                    June 30, 1987       (a)        December 31, 1989   (a)       December 31, 1989   (a)
December 31, 1989  (b)         December 31, 1989   (b)      December 31, 1989   (b)
(a) Credit 1526-0-NAG
(b) Credit 1526-1-MAG



- 32 -
3. CRUDE! DZSUU8 USIN
A. CUXULAXIV3 USTInPD AND ACTUAL DI7WURSZSIU
(US $  000)
FY 1985  FY 1986  FY 1987  FY 1988  FY 1989  FY 1990
Appraisal Estimate             8,000    4,000    3,000    5,000    4,000    1,000
Actual                         4,519    7,907    2,665    6,482    5,505          885
Cumulative Disburuements
Appraisal Estimate             8,000   12,000   15,000   20,000   24,000   25,000
Actual                         4,519   12,426   15,091   21,573   27,078   27,963
Actual as % of Estimate          56.5    103.6    100.6    107.9    112.8    111.9
B. DI8WUR53EDU BY CATUGORY
(SDR equivalent)
Amount of the                    Actual
Category                                    Credlt Allocated               Disbursements
;1) Civil Workc
(a) Other than b and c below                    7,180,000                  10,847,467.40
(b) Toamasina Breakwater                        4,380,000                   4,273,859.37
(c) Toamasina Airport                              90,000                      35,044.29
'2) Eouioment
(a) Goods                                       2,100,000                   3,876,427.51
(b) Navigation Aid Equipment                      140,000                     105,677.10
(3) Consultantc                                 1,430,000                   1,541,527.61
(4) Housina Credits                             1,900,000                   1,720,519.39
(5) Initial Deoosit                             2,900,000                           0.00
(6) Refundina of PPF                              526,000                     525,826.49
(7) Unalloc&dat                                 2,954,000                            0.00
difference between
historical values of DTS and US $                    0                    673,650.84
TOTALs                      23,600,000                  23,600,000.00



C. DISBURSNKENTS BY QUART3R
Cumulative     Percent   Historical US$
Period Dates             Disbursements    Disbursements  Disbursed    Equivalent
Credit 1526-0
01/01/85 - 03/31/85        3,445,484.89      3,445,484.89       23.3      3,384,210.16
04/01/85 - 06/30/85        1,150,394.58      4,595,879.47       31.1      1,135,116.55
07/01/85 - 09/30/85          111,010.55      4,706,890.02       31.8        116,320.19
10/01/85 - 12/31/85        3,662,787.64      8,369,677.66       56.6      3,985,321.34
01/01/86 - 03/31/86        2,627,347.02    10,997,024.68        74.3      3,013,932.87
04/01/86 - 06/30/86          682,376.09    11,679,400.77        78.9        791,847.47
07/01/86 - 09/30/86                 0.00    11,679,400.77       78.9
10/01/86 - 12/31/86        1,882,891.47    13,562,292.24        91.6      2,281,413.73
01/01/87 - 03/31/87          303,543.66    13,865,835.90        93.7        383,539.55
04/01/87 - 06/30/87                 0.00    13,865,835.90       93.7
07/01/87 - 09/30/87                 0.00    13,865,835.90       93.7
10/01/87 - 12/31/87          168,525.68    14,034,361.58        94.8        219,548.23
01/01/88 - 03/31/88          218,267.60    14,252,629.18        96.3        299,919.92
04/01/88 - 06/30/88          364,150.68    14,616,779.86        98.8        503,280.52
07/01/88 - 09/30/88           47,196.34    14,663,976.20        99.1         61,321.73
10/01/88 - 12/31/88                 0.00    14,663,976.20       99.1
01/01/89 - 03/31/89                 0.00    14,663,976.20       99.1
04/01/89 - 06/30/89                 0.00    14,663,976.20       99.1
07/01/89 - 09/30/89                 0.00    14,663,976.20       99.1
10/01/89 - 12/31/89                 0.00    14,663,976.20       99.1
01/01/90 - 03/31/90                 0.00    14,663,976.20       99.1                                       w
04/01/90 - 06/30/90          136,023.80    14,800,000.00       100.0        18O,108.58
Credit 1526-1
10/01/86 - 12/31/86                 0.00             0.00        0.0
01/01/87 - 03/31/87                 0.00             0.00        0.0
04/01/87 - 06/30/87                 0.00              0.00       0.0
07/01/87 - 09/30/87        1,441,380.58      1,441,380.58       16.4      1,839,467.37
10/01/87 - 12/31/87        1,884,201.72      3,325,582.30       37.8     2,538,623.07
01/01/88 - 03/31/88          511,632.27      3,837,214.57       43.6        708,805.53
04/01/88 - 06/30/88          272,725.54      4,109,940.11       46.7        372,002.28
07/01/88 - 09/30/88        1,817,726.02      5,927,666.13       67.4      2,358,514.26
10/01/88 - 12/31/88        1,260,105.87      7,187,772.00       81.7      1,677,029.12
01/01/89 - 03/31/89          948,862.29      8,136,634.29       92.5      1,247,343.29
04/01/89 - 06/30/89          127,639.11      8,264,273.40       93.9        160,905.81
07/01/89 - 09/30/89           27,302.81      8,291,576.21       94.2         34,792.79
10/01/89 - 12/31/89                0.00      8,291,576.21       94.2
01/01/90 - 03/31/90                 0.00     8,291,576.21       94.2
04/01/90 - 06/30/90          508,423.79      8,800,000.00      100.0        670,454.44



- 34 -
4. PROJECT COSTS AND F IDCIMN
A. PROJECT COSTS
(USS'000)
Appraisal Estimate       Actual    IDA
Base   Conting.    Total               Part
Cost
(1) Credit 1526-0-NAG
A. Ports                  2,726      523    3,249    2,824    1,973
B. Airports               2,017      387    2,404    3,235    2,600
C. Roads                  7,354    1,410    8,764   11,545    6,010
D. Public Buildings       5,152      988    6,140    4,428    2,612
E. F1FABE                   600      115       715       762      613
F. JIRANA                 2,157      414    2,571    2,085    2,085
G. Housing Credits        2,000       90    2,090    2,101    2,101
H. Consultant Services   1,736        78    1,814    1,447    1,237
Total          23,742    4,004   27,746   28,427   19,231
(2) Credit 1526-1-NAG
A. Port                   5,800    1,252    7,052    6,325    4,866
B. Airport                  200       30       230      202       173
C. Roads                  2,000      297    2,297    3,246    1,690
D. Public Buildings       5,100      758    5,858    4,809    2,837
F. JIRAMA                     0        0         0      353       353
H. Consultant Services   1,300        63    1,363    1,429        923
Total          14,400    2,400   16,800   16,365   10,842
Grand Total    38,142    6,404   44,546   44,791   30,073
N.B, Cost overrun is USS 245,000, i.e. 0.55% of total Project cost.
B. PROJECT FINANCING
(1) First Project                                      (USS Million)
Credit 1526-0-MAG                                       15.0
Credit 663-MAG (Second Education Project)                0.7
Credit 1002-MAG (Water and Sanitation Project)           2.0
Cr.1391 and SF4-NAG (Sixth Highway Project)              0.5
Government                                               5.0
Duties and Taxes                                         4.5
Totalt                                    27.7
(2) Second Project
Credit 1526-1-NAG                                       10.0
Credit 1694-NAG (Third Railway Project)                  1.0
Government                                               3.6
Duties and Taxes                                         2.2
Totals                                    16.8
Grand Total:                              44.5
N.B. In addition to this US $ 1.0 million for the port of Toamasina,
Credit 1694-NAG also included US $ 1.0 million for repairs to
the railway system itself.



6. USE OF BAr. RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUT
Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle                                           Cr.1526-0   Cr.1S26-1
Through Appraisal                                                        5.80                0.0
Appraiseal through Board Approval                                      21.30                 5.6
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                   14.50                 2.3
Supervision                                                            47.50               14.6
TOTAL                                           89.1               22.5
Source: Bank MIS
B. MISSIONS
date           Days      number of
Stage of Project Cycle                       Starting    ending        in Field    persons  Specialization represented                    Status
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board Approval             OS/25/84    06/05/84    11                4      highiay, water and port
Board Approval through Eff ctiveness         11/30/84    12/18/84    18 (partly)    2         2 engineers
Supervisfon                                  02/19/85    03/05/85    14                 1     engineer                                        1
05/19/85    06/04/85    16 (partly)    2         engineer and financial analyst                  1
09/0S/85    09/24/85    19                1      engineer                                        1
01/26/U6   02/09/86    14 (partly)    1          engineer                                        1
Aporaisal of suppiemntaL credit              04/13186    04/27/86    14                6      4 engineers, roads, ports, railway and
Supervision                                 09/19/86    10/04/86    15 (partly)    3          port engineer and 2 transport economist         1
11/27/U6   12/12/86    15 (partly)    1          engineer                                        1
03/06/87    03/19/87    13                1      engineer                                        1
10/01/87    10/15/87    14                1      engineer                                        1
01/19/88    02/10/88    22 (partly)    1         engineer                                        1
09/18/88    10/02/86    15 (partly)    1         engineer                                        1
02/12/89    02/26/89    14 (partly)    1         engineer                                        1
06/29/89    07/19/89    20 (partly)    2         2 engineers                                     1
11/26/89    12/07/89    11 (partly)    2         2 engineers                                     1
06/03/90    06/10/90       7 (partly)    1       engineer                                        I
Source: Bank Project File



IBRD 20035R
,s                                                                 .Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR
-    vtou. *ct"    s ti &.
.~~~~~ .I WIoe                                      NOY4\ (             E Amo
(~~Sesz   ~  ~      ~     ~           S\/)Amebor.z  e 
.9/pow 4#,rAvAk*                                                ANTSIRANAN
fM""    AOntotoho
._._.~~~~~~~                                          ) *X$^    A       v- r  ,
/,,  A H A J AbN
n f    f        +    i ){>!   { ~~~~~TOAMASINA".     + 
/o                 \s       5     , w >   ,sJO^            4/ .mb&odJIN
u-             \ t'                                      '  \ ki    r toionrozt o
ANTANANARIV l     mow   j    <      Jf. 
b        Xb¢~~sT.ridio ,'N2 <                        ol;   b  n
a~~~~~~~~~~~resadom. XXbit                      t 
<   /   t  O  lB I A 8 Y w~~~~~FO                          ,mooo/
-Q            ~~TOLIA5V
t X /,~~~~~~~~~4t / Mvmn~~~~~~~~~~iorr
i  2     ~~~0+o  }.        NA    SA 
WN /o ,_ s be    jX7bhipno   KtosTeIs o   so  too  ISO  200
t ) "~~~~~~' 9 Svl ulus~~~~~~~~~i                         o'   t ioo
li    TZA IO  tZANIA   , A  %
bee.                                     . W#W.
Php I                                                ZLOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BABWC  ~ 
JUNE )990



