Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
October 21, 2010 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
Mr. James Rawcliffe 
Vice President 
Sagicor Insurance Managers Limited, 
Acting as Corporate Secretary of the  
Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility 
Harbour Place  
103 South Church Street 
PO Box 2171 
Grand Cayman KY1-1105 
Cayman Islands 
British West Indies 
 
Re: Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) Trust Fund  
 
Grant No. TF058302-CCRIF Project 
 
Amendment No.2 to the Grant Agreement 
 
Dear Mr. Rawcliffe: 
 
We refer to the Grant Agreement between the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance 
Facility (“Recipient”) and the International Development Association (“World Bank”), acting as 
administrator of the CCRIF Trust Fund, dated April 26, 2007, for the CCRIF Project (the 
“Agreement”), as amended.    
 
Pursuant to recent discussions between the Recipient and the World Bank, I am writing 
on behalf of the World Bank to indicate our agreement to extend to the Recipient an additional 
grant in an amount not to exceed twenty million United States Dollars (U.S. $20,000,000) for the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Agreement. The World Bank 
therefore proposes to amend the Agreement as follows:   
 
1. 
The first paragraph of the Agreement shall be amended by deleting in the first sentence 
the words, “an amount not to exceed fifty million United States Dollars (U.S. 
$50,000,000)”, and inserting in said paragraph the following: “an amount not to exceed 
seventy million United States Dollars (U.S. $70,000,000)” 
 
2. 
Section 1.01 of the Annex to the Agreement shall be amended by deleting in the first 
sentence the words, “The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out of 
Various Funds dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), and inserting in said 
paragraph the following: “The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank 
out of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (“Standard Conditions”).” 
 
3. 
Section 2.02 of the Annex to the Agreement shall be amended to read as follows: 
 
“2.02. 
Project Execution Generally
.
The Recipient declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in 
Page  2
2
accordance with the provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the 
Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by 
the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits an
d
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines”), with the modifications set forth in the Attachment to this Amendment No.2, 
amending the Appendix to the Agreement; and (c) this Article II.” 
 
4. 
Section 2.06 (a) (i) and (ii) of the Annex to the Agreement shall be amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“(i) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(“Procurement Guidelines”), in the case of goods and works; and 
 
“(ii) 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ 
services; and” 
 
5. 
The Appendix to the Agreement shall be amended by numbering the text titled, 
“Modifications to the Standard Conditions” as Section I, and inserting Section II as set 
forth in the Attachment to this Amendment No.2. 
 
All other provisions of the Agreement, as amended herein, shall remain in full force and 
effect.  
 
Please indicate the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing amendment by having an 
authorized official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Amendment No.2, and 
return it to the World Bank. Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, the 
Amendment No.2 shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
Country Director 
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
CONFIRMED AND AGREED: 
 
THE CARIBBEAN CATASTROPHE RISK INSURANCE FACILITY 
 
By /s/   James Rawcliffe 
Vice President, Sagicor Insurance Managers Limited, 
 
Acting as Corporate Secretary of the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility 
 
Date:  October 25, 2010 
 
Page  3
3
Enclosures:   
 
(1) 
Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, dated 
 
July 31, 2010. 
 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter dated April 26, 2007, together with World   Bank 
Disbursement 
 
Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006. 
 
Page  4
4
ATTACHMENT
APPENDIX 
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or 
entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the 
individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
1. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an individual or entity, 
including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible 
publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, 
for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or 
implementation of the project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the 
Bank, if at any time the Bank determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity 
has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank 
financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  
Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary 
suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the 
Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
Page  5
5
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under 
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph 
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the 
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board 
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has 
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing 
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be 
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other 
stakeholders.” 
 
