                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00002332



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (P108058)



                                         ON A

                                GRANT
                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$70,997,902.39

                                     TO THE

          CARIBBEAN CATASTROPHE RISK INSURANCE FACILITY

                                         FOR A

           CARIBBEAN CATASTROPHE RISK INSURANCE PROJECT



                                   July 12, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            Currency Unit = US$

                               FISCAL YEAR
                              June 1 to May 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAL       Average annual loss
AFD       Agence Française du Dévelopment (French Development Agency)
CARICOM   Caribbean Community and Common Market
CARILEC   Caribbean Electrical Utility Service Corporation
CCCCC     Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre
CCRIF     Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (the “Facility?)
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
CDEMA     Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency
CDM       Comprehensive disaster management
CEA       California Earthquake Authority
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CIMA      Cayman Islands Monetary Authority, CCRIF’s regulator
CIMH      Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology
COFAP     CARICOM Council for Finance and Planning
DFA       Dynamic Financial Analysis, the model CCRIF uses to assess its financial
          sustainability
DFID      United Kingdom Department for International Development
DRM       Disaster risk management
ECA       Economics of Climate Adaptation
EU        European Union
GEF       Global Environmental Facility
HLEM      Hazard and loss estimation model
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (part of the
          World Bank Group)
IBTF      Initiating Brief for Trust Fund
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association (part of the World Bank Group)
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
JSIF      Jamaican Social Investment Fund
KAC       Kinetic Analysis Corporation
MCII      Munich Climate Insurance Initiative
MDTF      Multi-donor Trust Fund
MOP       Memorandum of the President of the World Bank to the Board of
          Executive Directors
NHC       U.S. National Hurricane Center
NMHS     A national meteorological and hydrological service
OAS      Organization of American States
OECS     Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development grant, a program of the
         Government of Japan
PML      Probable maximum loss
RTFS     Real Time Forecasting System, a proprietary storm forecasting system
         developed by Kinetic Analysis Corporation
SRC      Seismic Research Centre, University of the West Indies
TA       Technical assistance
UN-ECLAC United Nations Economic Committee for Latin America and the
         Caribbean
UNEP     United Nations Environmental Program
USAID    U.S. Agency for International Development
USGS     U.S. Geological Survey
UWI      University of the West Indies




                          Vice President: Hasan Tuluy
                        Country Director: Françoise Clottes
                         Sector Manager: Anna Wellenstein
                    Project Team Leader: Niels Holm-Nielsen
                       ICR Team Leader: Niels Holm-Nielsen
                                    CARIBBEAN REGION
                          Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information                                                                                                     i
    B. Key Dates                                                                                                             i
    C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                       i
    D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                               ii
    E. Bank Staff                                                                                                           ii
    F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                           ii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                              iv
    H. Restructuring                                                                                                       iv
    I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                  v

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 21
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 29
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 30
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 34
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 36
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 37
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 38
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 39
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 51
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 53
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 54
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 55
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 56
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 60
  MAP IBRD 39282
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Caribbean Catastrophe
Country:               Caribbean                 Project Name:
                                                                           Risk Insurance Facility
Project ID:            P108058                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-58302
ICR Date:              07/12/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                       Grantee:                  CCRIF
Original Total
                       USD 24.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 71.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 71.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/15/2007     Effectiveness:                               07/03/2007
                                                                                   11/11/2008
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):                            10/25/2010
                                                                                   10/03/2011
Approval:              04/26/2007     Mid-term Review:           07/31/2008        12/01/2008
                                      Closing:                   01/16/2012        01/16/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                             Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Not Applicable
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                 100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other financial and private sector development                         100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Francoise Clottes                    Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:            Anna Wellenstein                     John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:       Niels B. Holm-Nielsen                Francis Ghesquiere
ICR Team Leader:           Niels B. Holm-Nielsen
ICR Primary Author:        Todd W. Crawford


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO was stated in the Initiating Brief for a Trust Fund (IBTF), approved March 2,
2007, as follows:

       The Trust Fund supports the creation and operation of the CCRIF, which will
allow Caribbean countries access to natural catastrophe risk insurance at affordable rates.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
As further specified for the purposes of the Implementation Status and Results Reports
(ISR), the PDO was stated as:




                                                 ii
        The development objective of the Trust Fund is to support the Caribbean
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility in order to reduce the Caribbean countries financial
vulnerability to natural disasters (earthquakes and hurricanes). The fund finances
CCRIF's establishment costs, operating expenses and insurance payouts. This results in a
significant reduction of insurance premiums and provides stability to CCRIF until it
becomes self-sustainable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)          Values      Target Years
                Establishment of the Facility by end March 2007, and natural catastrophe risk
Indicator 1 : coverage provided to participating countries for the Hurricane Seasons 2007,
                2008, 2009 and 2010.
                                           Establishment of                 Establishment of
                                           the Facility by end              the Facility by end
                                           March 2007, and                  March 2007, and
                                           natural catastrophe              natural catastrophe
Value                                      risk coverage                    risk coverage
                CCRIF not yet
quantitative or                            provided to                      provided to
                established.
Qualitative)                               participating                    participating
                                           countries for the                countries for the
                                           Hurricane Seasons                Hurricane Seasons
                                           2007, 2008, 2009                 2007, 2008, 2009,
                                           and 2010.                        2010 and 2011.
Date achieved 02/06/2007                   12/31/2010                       01/16/2012
Comments
                PDO indicator taken from the approved IBTF. The IBTF did not specify a target
(incl. %
                value. The actual value is as of the date the Grant closed.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Total claims paying capacity of CCRIF
Value
                                                                                US$150 million
(quantitative     0                          US$110 million
                                                                                (See comment)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/06/2007                 12/31/2010                           01/16/2012
Comments          The IBTF did not specify an intermediate outcome indicator. The "original
(incl. %          target value" is taken from the ISRs. The actual value is for the insurance year
achievement)      June 1, 2011, to May 31, 2012.




                                                  iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    06/12/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     9.30
  2    11/07/2008       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   12.27
  3    03/31/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   18.57
  4    10/12/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   25.38
  5    01/30/2010       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   38.34
  6    05/21/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            42.77
  7    02/13/2011   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   65.86
  8    09/06/2011       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   65.86


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To increase the Grant from
 11/11/2008       N        S      S          12.27   US$24 million to US$50
                                                     million.
 10/25/2010               MS     MS          49.74   To add US$20 million.
                                                     To add the remaining US$0.998
 10/03/2011                S      S          65.86
                                                     million.




                                              iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. The Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-2015 provides a global blueprint for disaster
   risk reduction and identifies the need to “promote the development of financial risk-
   sharing mechanism, particularly insurance and reinsurance against disasters,? as a
   priority action for “Building the Resilience of Nations and Communities to Disasters.?
   This recommendation is particularly relevant to Caribbean countries, which are
   highly exposed to adverse natural events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, and
   excess rainfall. On average, at least one major hurricane and numerous tropical
   storms cross the Caribbean each year. From 1979 to 2005, aggregate economic losses
   due just to storms were estimated at US$16.6 billion – US$613 million annually.
   Averages, however, disguise the extreme losses that can occur overnight. Damage to
   Grenada alone from just one of the major tropical storms in the Caribbean in 2004,
   Hurricane Ivan, was calculated at US$800 million. The combined damage from Ivan
   and the three other major hurricanes that wreaked havoc in the Caribbean in the same
   year – Hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne – totaled more than US$4 billion.

2. Large economies can absorb the economic impact of major disasters, as the resulting
   damage, however large in absolute terms, is equal to a small share of GDP and the
   funds required for recovery, a small share of the government budget. For example,
   the damage to Louisiana and other Gulf Coast states caused by Hurricane Katrina in
   2005 amounted to US$125 billion, only 1.1 percent of U.S. GDP for that year1; the
   US$83 billion appropriated by the U.S. Congress in its wake hardly registered on the
   federal budget.

3. The same cannot be said of small island economies, such as in the Caribbean, where
   the damage can easily constitute a multiple of GDP (See Table 1). The capacity of
   the Caribbean countries individually to absorb the financial impact of such disasters is
   limited by a number of factors. Their small geographic size prevents diversification
   of their risk. The modest scale of their fiscal revenues makes establishing a financial
   reserve unaffordable and their small budgets constrain opportunities for reallocating
   resources to meet immediate needs; in any case, reallocation takes time. 2 Their
   possibilities for financial risk transfer through affordable catastrophe insurance in
   traditional international insurance and reinsurance markets are limited by the high
   transaction costs that result from the limited volume of business they could bring to
   these markets. The high levels of their government debt constrain their access to
   credit in international capital markets and their domestic capital markets lack
   sufficient depth to meet their needs following a catastrophe. And, finally, such donor


1
  World Development Indicators database, World Bank.GDP = GDP at purchaser's prices in current dollars.
2
  While larger countries generally have the flexibility to reallocate up to 5 percent of their budgets within a
current year to meet extraordinary needs, for the small island countries in the Caribbean such scope is on
the order of only 1 percent.

                                                      1
      assistance as they may receive to support relief and recovery, with the exception of
      in-kind humanitarian assistance, comes with a delay, often results from a
      reprogramming that reduces funds for other development activities, and is normally
      tied to specific expenditures.

               Table 1: Losses from Major Disasters in the Last 40 Years3

    Year   Natural Disaster        Country         Region        Estimated Direct        Direct Loss
                                                                  Loss (nominal             (% of
                                                                   US$ million)            GDP)
                                       Large Economies
    1992   Hurricane Andrew         USA         North                        265,000          0.4
                                               America
    1995     Earthquake             Japan     East Asia                      100,000          3.2
    1998         Flood              China     East Asia                       30,000          0.7
    2005   Hurricane Katrina        USA         North                        125,000          1.1
                                               America
                                    Small Island Economies
    1985    Cyclones Eric &        Vanuatu     Oceania                            173         143
                 Nigel
    1990     Cyclone Ofa            Samoa         Oceania                         200         178
    1991    Cyclones Val &          Samoa         Oceania                         278         248
                 Wasa
    2004    Hurricane Ivan         Grenada       Caribbean                        889         203
    2009       Tsunami             Samoa          Oceania                         120          22
    2010      Earthquake            Haiti        Caribbean                      8,000         114

4. What the small island countries in the Caribbean particularly lack is ready access to
   untied liquidity to support relief in the immediate aftermath of a natural disaster. In
   the initial relief stage, humanitarian supplies need to be distributed, debris need to be
   cleared, people need to be rescued, sites may need to be prepared for emergency
   housing, vital public services, such as water and power, need to be restored in
   however makeshift and temporary a fashion, and a strategy to finance the much
   greater costs of the medium-term recovery and longer-term reconstruction phases
   needs urgently to be formulated. All of these activities entail extraordinary costs for
   materiel, fuel, overtime for government emergency utilities and public works staff,
   etc. Figure 1 illustrates the three phases for which financing must be mobilized –
   initial relief, medium-term recovery, and longer-term reconstruction.




3
 From “Financial Protection of the State against Natural Disasters,? Policy Research Working Paper 5429;
Francis Ghesquiere & Olivier Mahul; the World Bank; September 2010.

                                                   2
                 Figure 1: Main Phases of Post Disaster Funding Needs4




 
5. The World Bank already had a significant history of experience with supporting
   efforts of countries in the Caribbean and elsewhere to strengthen their disaster risk
   management strategies and recover from hurricanes and earthquakes.5 In view of this
   history, following the devastation caused by Hurricane Ivan and the other major
   tropical cyclones in 2004, the Caribbean Community and Common Market
   (CARICOM) Heads of State requested the World Bank’s assistance in devising and
   creating a structure that would help the Caribbean countries address the constraints
   described above by providing them with access to affordable insurance coverage
   against potential revenue losses from natural disasters, thereby reducing their
   financial vulnerability to such disasters.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6. Given World Bank policies prevailing in 2007 with respect to Bank-administered
   trust funds, the usual Project Appraisal Document (PAD) that would have been done
   for an investment project was not required or prepared for the project. Instead, an
   Initiating Brief for a Trust Fund (IBTF) was prepared for Management’s decision,
   setting forth the following PDO and key indicators.6


4
  Ibid.
5
  See for example Annex 2, “Major Related Projects,? in the Project Appraisal Document for the four
Catastrophe Insurance Projects for the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States; February 6, 2007; Report
No: 38539-LAC.
6
  IBTF 2115 (approved); March 2, 2007. Project documentation for the Board of Executive Directors
consisted of: (i) a Memorandum of the President (MOP) to the Board of Executive Directors, “Proposed

                                                   3
PDO

7. The purpose of the Trust Fund was to support the establishment and operations of
   CCRIF, a catastrophe risk mitigation facility for which no precedent or model existed,
   in order to reduce members’ financial vulnerability to natural disasters. The PDO
   was stated simply in the approved IBTF as follows::

      The Trust Fund supports the creation and operation of the CCRIF, which will
       allow Caribbean countries access to natural catastrophe risk insurance at
       affordable rates.

Key Indicators

8. The IBTF specified the following key indicator:

      Establishment of the Facility by end March 2007, and natural catastrophe risk
       coverage provided to participant countries for the Hurricane Seasons 2007, 2008,
       2009, and 2010.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9. After CCRIF’s establishment, the PDO and Key Indicators were further specified in
   Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR) in order to guide supervision. As
   these revisions are more specific, they will be used for the rest of this Implementation
   Completion and Results Report (ICR).

Revised PDO

      The development objective of the Trust Fund is to support the Caribbean
       Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) in order to reduce the Caribbean
       countries' financial vulnerability to natural disasters (earthquakes and hurricanes).
       The fund finances CCRIF's establishment costs, operating expenses and
       insurance payouts. This results in a significant reduction of insurance premiums
       and provides stability to CCRIF until it becomes self-sustainable.

Revised Key Indicators

     PDO-level indicator: Countries are eligible for insurance payment (and have
      received payment in case of an insured event).




Transfer of IBRD Surplus to Support a Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility,? February 9, 2007;
and a Board of Governors Resolution No. 585, “Transfer from Surplus to Fund the Caribbean Catastrophe
Risk Insurance Facility Trust Fund,? which was adopted April 23, 2007, to execute the US$10 million
transfer.

                                                  4
         o Baseline: CCRIF not yet established
         o End-of-Project Target Value: Participation fee paid and insurance policy
            purchased
    Intermediate outcome indicator – Total claims paying capacity of CCRIF
         o Baseline: 0
         o End-of-Project Target Value: US$110 million

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10. The primary beneficiaries of CCRIF are the 16 member governments. They benefit
    from: (i) being able to transfer a portion of their hurricane and earthquake risk to the
    Facility at a price lower than what they would pay if they were able to obtain
    coverage individually in international insurance markets or the cost of the capital they
    would need to hold or obtain in order to self insure; and (ii) from receiving a prompt
    cash payout, within two weeks or less, following a covered event. A secondary
    benefit might be more favorable investor sentiment, particularly in the tourism sector,
    stimulated by investors’ greater confidence in the governments’ disaster risk
    management strategy and ability to overcome quickly the damage caused by the
    disaster; but such a benefit is difficult to measure and is not assessed in this ICR.

11. As CCRIF has consolidated its standing as a Caribbean institution and broadened the
    scope of its activities, others have also benefited. It has entered into partnership
    agreements for support to and collaborative work with several CARICOM
    organizations, signing Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with: (i) the Caribbean
    Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology (CIMH); (ii) the Caribbean Disaster
    Emergency Management Agency (CDEMA); (iii) the Caribbean Community Climate
    Change Centre (CCCCC): (iv) the United Nations Economic Committee for Latin
    America and the Caribbean (UN-ECLAC); (v) the Seismic Research Centre (SRC) at
    the University of the West Indies (UWI); and, recently, (vi) the Secretariat of the
    Organization of Eastern Caribbean Countries (OECS). Collaborative activities are
    designed not only for the mutual benefit of CCRIF and the partner institution, but also
    to contribute broadly to supporting efforts of CCRIF members to strengthen their
    disaster risk management policies and practices. Section 2.2 amplifies on these
    mutual benefits.

12. A number of officials from member country agencies – e.g., ministries of finance,
    departments of insurance supervisors, national disaster management offices, and
    national meteorological and hydrological services (NMHS) – have benefited from
    CCRIF’s support for their participation in a range of professional development
    activities sponsored by CCRIF itself or by others, such as CIMH and CDEMA.
    Finally, undergraduate and graduate-level students have benefited from CCRIF
    scholarships for studies in insurance, disaster risk management, civil and
    environmental engineering, geology and geography, and related fields.




                                             5
1.5 Original Components

13. The IBTF specified two components:

    1. Establishment of CCRIF – US$500,000
    2. CCRIF Operations – US$30,421,170.50

14. With respect to the second component, eligible expenditures were:

    a. professional service fees, banking initiation fees, and registration fees, including
       related travel expenses incurred by the Recipient in connection with establishment
       of the Facility;
    b. administrative fees, professional fees, audit costs, exchange rate costs, banking
       fees, reinsurance premia, and remuneration and travel expenses of Board
       members of the Facility incurred by the Recipient in operating the Facility;
    c. insurance payouts of the Facility, to the extent that such payouts are not covered
       by any reinsurance purchased by the Recipient; and
    d. such other operational expenses of the Facility agreed with the World Bank.

15. Specific professional fees for which CCRIF received funding from the Grant were
    those for: (i) the members of the Board of Directors; (ii) the Facility Supervisor; (iii)
    the Insurance Manager; (iv) the Reinsurance Broker; (v) the Corporate
    Communications Consultant; and (vi) the External Auditor. CCRIF has financed its
    research and development, partnership, capacity building, and scholarship activities
    out of its own investment income.

16. The project was financed by a Multi-donor Trust Fund (MDTF), which was
    established to support CCRIF’s initial operations.7 MDTF resources were transferred
    to CCRIF via a recipient-executed trust fund CCRIF Grant Agreement.8 The trust
    fund resources were not used to make a direct investment in CCRIF, but rather to
    reimburse it over the course of project implementation for eligible expenditures
    described in paragraph 14. The initial total financing for the two components –
    US$30,921,170.50 – was the sum of pledges from bilateral donors to the MDTF at
    the time that the IBTF was approved, less the Bank’s 2 percent charge for
    administering the trust fund.9

1.6 Revised Components

N/A


7
  TF070721.
8
  CCRIF Grant No. TF058302; April 26, 2007.
9
  Initial donor contributions in US$ equivalents were: the United Kingdom Department for International
Development (DFID) – US$7,500,000.00; Agence Française du Dévelopment (the French Agency for
Development, AFD) – US$6,350,750.00; and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) –
US$17,701,464.80.

                                                  6
1.7 Other significant changes

17. Donor contributions to the MDTF eventually rose to some US$67.4 million.

                  Table 2: Contributions to Multi-donor Trust Fund

          Donor              Currency of            Amount of            Amount in
                             Contribution          Contribution        US$ Equivalent
Bermuda                         US$                          500,000         500,000.00

CDB                               US$                      5,000,000         5,000,000.00

Canada                            CA$                     20,000,000        17,811,025.02

European Commission              Euro                     12,500,000        16,960,000.00

French Republic                  Euro                      5,000,000         7,258,575.00

DFID                              US$                      7,500,000         7,500,000.00

Ireland                           US$                      2,400,000         2,400,000.00

IBRD                              US$                     10,000,000        10,000,000.00

                                Total                                       67,429,600.02


18. With net interest income, the MDTF resources grew over time to US$70,997,902.39.
    As these resources grew and as CCRIF’s eligible expenditures increased, the CCRIF
    Grant Agreement was increased three times from the original US$24 million,
    ultimately transferring to it the full amount of the MDTF. The PDO, outcome
    indicators, project components, and definition of eligible expenditures, however,
    remained as outlined in the original Grant Agreement.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19. Grants from the Government of Japan under its Policy and Human Resource
    Development program (PHRD) to Jamaica and to Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica,
    Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines were
    vital to project preparation. The grants, which were administered by the World Bank,
    amounted to US$800,000 and US$1.0 million, respectively, and were implemented
    by the Jamaican Social Investment Fund (JSIF) and the OECS Secretariat,
    respectively. Project preparation was also supported by Bank budget, amounting to
    some US$400,000. These funds were drawn from the preparation budgets for two
    closely related projects which funded the participation of Haiti, Dominica, Grenada,
    St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines in CCRIF (see Annex 4(b).



                                            7
20. Project design, led by the World Bank with the collaboration of JSIF and the OECS
    Secretariat, was particularly challenging, as CCRIF was the first multi-country, multi-
    peril pooled catastrophe risk insurance facility in the world. In-depth World Bank
    analytical work provided the intellectual underpinnings for the initial dialogue with
    Caribbean and other stakeholders and for designing the structure and policies of the
    Facility. Key elements in this regard were a Bank-published book on the Caribbean
    case, “Managing Catastrophic Disaster Risks Using Alternative Risk Financing and
    Pooled Insurance Structures?, and a paper published jointly by the World Bank,
    United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Organization
    of American States (OAS) titled “Insurance, Reinsurance and Catastrophe Protection
    in the Caribbean?.10

21. Project design drew on data and knowledge accumulated in the Caribbean, North
    America, Europe, and Asia by catastrophe risk insurance entities; insurance
    regulators; actuaries; probabilistic catastrophe risk modeling companies; private
    sector insurance and reinsurance companies, brokers, and associations; disaster
    emergency management organizations; and meteorological, hydrological, and seismic
    monitoring and research centers such as the World Meteorological Organization
    (WMO), U.S. National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Agency (NOAA), National
    Hurricane Center (NHC), California Earthquake Authority (CEA), the Florida and
    Hawaii hurricane funds, U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), and SRC. In addition to
    the work undertaken to identify the most suitable hazard and loss estimation model
    (HLEM), map and assess risks, develop and price the policies, and flesh out the
    institutional and governance structure of the Facility, a thorough assessment was
    undertaken of the regulatory environment for captive insurance companies in various
    Caribbean jurisdictions, including their anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist
    finance regimes, leading to the choice to domicile CCRIF in the Cayman Islands.

22. Design required extremely sophisticated modeling of hurricane and earthquake risk in
    the Caribbean to develop the HLEM that would underpin the pricing of CCRIF’s
    policies and its financial sustainability. The modeling entailed a number of steps,
    including: (i) physical risk mapping and vulnerability estimation for the Caribbean
    islands; (ii) innovative actuarial analysis of the probability of tropical storm and
    earthquake events of different intensities and insurance pricing studies: (iii)
    evaluation of financial structures and instruments and their associated costs for




10
  (i) “Managing Catastrophic Disaster Risks Using Alternative Risk Financing and Pooled Insurance
Structures?; John D. Pollner; World Bank Technical Paper No. 495; The World Bank; May 2001. (ii)
“Insurance, Reinsurance and Catastrophe Protection in the Caribbean – A Working Paper prepared in
collaboration with the World Bank?; Arthur F. Evans, John Pollner, W. Ed Morris, and Jan C. Vermeiren;
Organization of American States, General Secretariat, Unit for Sustainable Development and Environment;
USAID-OAS Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project; May 1996.




                                                  8
     pooled risk financing and insurance; and (iv) assessment of options for the
     institutional and legal structure of the Facility.

23. The design of CCRIF was well tailored to help the Caribbean countries reduce their
    financial vulnerability to natural disasters by addressing the limitations on their
    capacity individually to absorb the initial financial impact of hurricanes and
    earthquakes.

      Risk pooling – CCRIF was designed to aggregate disaster risks across the
       Caribbean, achieving the kind of risk diversification and spreading that its
       members are not able to attain on their own.
      Affordability – Structuring CCRIF as a risk pool with a diversified portfolio
       enables it to offer insurance at affordable prices. At the time of appraisal, it was
       estimated that CCRIF insurance would cost 60 to 70 percent less than the
       members’ cost of self-insurance through establishment of a reserve fund, and 45
       to 50 percent less than the cost of coverage if they were able to obtain it
       individually in traditional markets.
      Parametric facility – CCRIF was designed as a parametric insurer to pay claims
       based on the occurrence of a hurricane or earthquake of a pre-defined magnitude
       – expressed in terms of proximity, wind speed, storm surge and waves for
       hurricanes and ground shaking for earthquakes – as measured by data publically
       available from independent scientific agencies. 11
      Timely and predictable payouts – Given CCRIF’s nature as a parametric insurer,
       its payouts are both timely and predictable. CCRIF is able to make payouts
       within two weeks or less of a covered disaster. This is possible because, with
       covered events being defined in advance and subject to rapid measurement based
       on data from independent third parties, no ex post visit by an insurance adjuster is
       required to assess damage on the ground and determine the amount of the payout.




11
   Parametric insurance differs from the more traditional indemnity insurance in how losses are determined
and payouts are made. Under traditional indemnity insurance, losses are determined based on an adjuster’s
ex post, on-the-ground assessment of actual damage. This can be a time-consuming and contentious
process and payouts to the insured are made only after it is completed. With parametric insurance, payouts
are triggered by the occurrence of natural disasters of a magnitude previously defined in the policy in terms
of proximity, wind speed, storm surge and waves for hurricanes and ground shaking for earthquakes.
Payouts under parametric policies are based on an estimate of the losses associated with those parameters
as calculated by the HLEM. Because payouts are calculated by the model, no on-the-ground ex-post loss
assessment is required and, accordingly they come quickly. In the case of parametric insurance, there can
be significant basis risk, i.e., the risk that a payout will be made when there is little actual damage or the
risk that the payout will be significantly less than the amount of damage against which the policy holder
obtained insurance. In the case of CCRIF, however, basis risk was mitigated through the sophisticated
modeling process described in paragraph 22. CCRIF members can obtain coverage for hurricanes as
frequent as a 1 in 15 year event and for earthquakes as frequent as a 1 in 20 year event. The maximum
coverage available for each peril for each year for which coverage is purchased is US$100 million. The
Facility uses publically available and readily verified scientific data from NHC for hurricanes and USGS
for earthquakes.

                                                      9
        Immediate liquidity – By making rapid payouts, CCRIF meets its members’
         requirements for an immediate injection of liquidity following a disaster to help
         them maintain essential government functions and jump-start recovery.
        Flexible resources – CCRIF’s policies were designed to provide payouts
         sufficient to help members finance their initial disaster response and maintain
         basic government functions while they mobilize the much larger amount of
         resources necessary to fund the longer-term recovery effort. CCRIF was not
         designed as a vehicle for funding all or even a major part of the cost of the
         recovery effort, as financial risk transfer of such a magnitude would not be
         affordable. CCRIF payouts are not tied to specific, previously identified
         expenditures. Instead, member governments enjoy full flexibility in allocating the
         payouts to the priorities that they themselves identify.
        Transparent payouts – Because covered events are defined in advance in
         accordance with objectively measurable parameters and because the events
         themselves are measured by independent scientific agencies which make the data
         publically available, payouts are not only rapid, but also transparent and subject to
         third-party verification.12
        Individualized coverage – CCRIF was designed to allow members to tailor their
         policies to their own risk profile and fiscal requirements. They do this by
         adjusting three policy variables: (i) the attachment point (deductible or most
         statistically frequent event covered); (ii) exhaustion point (most statistically
         infrequent, or maximum, covered event); and (iii) ceding percentage (share of the
         loss between the attachment and exhaustion points that is insured). The cost of
         coverage is a direct function of the amount of risk that the member chooses to
         transfer; thus, there is no cross subsidization from members transferring a low
         amount of risk to those transferring a high amount.

24. A number of other design features contributed to the affordability of CCRIF
    insurance and the viability of its business model. Important among these were:

        Donor support – CCRIF was designed to be funded during its start-up phase in
         part by donor contributions. As described above, these eventually totaled some
         $67.4 million; net interest income brought the final amount of the MDTF to about
         $71.0 million.
        Faster capital growth – By defraying CCRIF’s major operating expenditures and
         reimbursing it for claims within its risk retention during its start-up phase, the
         MDTF enabled CCRIF to retain the bulk of its premium income and, thus, helped
         it to build its risk bearing capacity more quickly than it could have without such
         support and assure its financial sustainability as an independent entity over the
         long-term. One measure of this effect is that total donor resources transferred to




12
     CCRIF retains a Big Four audit firm for this purpose.

                                                      10
       CCRIF were equal to 62.3 percent of its assets as of May 31, 2011.13 Annex 3
       discusses in greater detail the impact of donor support.
      Reinsurance – CCRIF was designed to transfer part of its risk to reinsurers and to
       the capital market through a swap. This reduced the cost of the capital that
       CCRIF needed to cover its risk.
      “Virtual? organizational structure – CCRIF was structured as a not-for-profit
       virtual organization, with a part-time Board of Directors and no physical office or
       staff of its own. Professional services are all provided by contractors operating
       out of their own facilities: the Facility Supervisor, Insurance Manager,
       Communications Consultant, Investment Managers, Reinsurance Broker, and
       R&D support. By staying organizationally lean, CCRIF has been able to control
       its fixed costs and overhead.
      Lower costs to members – These design features helped to lower members’ costs.
       As CCRIF’s capital has grown, it has been able to reduce the participation fee
       requirement from 100 percent of premium to 50 percent for members of three or
       more years standing, lower the price of its coverage by about 30 percent, and
       begin to provide a 25 percent premium discount in years following years of no
       claims.

25. A central point to be reiterated is that CCRIF was established to add to its members’
    revenues in the short-term by providing a cash infusion to help them fund the initial
    phase of their disaster response and avoid interruption of their basic business of
    government. CCRIF was never conceived of, nor designed as, an instrument for
    avoiding longer-term impacts of the disaster on the government’s debt and balance
    sheet. As already indicated, attempting to insure the entire costs of the covered
    disasters would be prohibitively expensive. Nor was CCRIF conceived or designed
    to be a complete and comprehensive disaster response strategy for its members.
    Instead, CCRIF was explicitly seen as only one instrument in the tool chest for a
    comprehensive disaster risk management strategy. A comprehensive strategy would
    include not just financial risk transfer, but also: (i) accumulation and analysis of
    information about hazards and potential losses; (ii) disaster preparedness measures,
    such as prepositioning relief supplies in critical areas: (iii) establishment of
    monitoring networks and warning systems for hydrometeorological and seismic
    events; (iv) identification of evacuation routes; (v) development and implementation
    of zoning and building codes to reduce settlement in hazard prone areas and to
    increase the disaster resilience of construction, including in the private sector; and
    (vi) public investments such as drainage networks and sea walls.

26. During the design and project preparation process, extensive stakeholder
    consultations were undertaken to help shape the Facility’s objectives, structures, and
    products and build support for a successful launch. These included a number of



13
   Or equal to 60.2 percent of CCRIF’s assets as of May 31, 2012, based on CCRIF’s unaudited financial
statements for 2011-2012.


                                                 11
     consultations, workshops, conferences, and briefings for CARICOM Heads of
     Government, Finance Ministers and Permanent Secretaries, insurance supervisors and
     regulators, and other senior government officials; the CARICOM Secretariat and
     CARICOM organizations such as CDEMA and CIMH; U.N. bodies; technical
     specialists; donors; research institutes; and private sector entities involved in
     probabilistic hazard modeling and catastrophe insurance and reinsurance. Among the
     major consultations and outreach activities were: (i) a regional introductory
     workshop in Kingston, Jamaica, organized in collaboration with JSIF and the
     CARICOM Council for Finance and Planning (COFAP) in April 2006; (ii) briefings
     for the CARICOM Heads of Governments in July and October 2006, the latter
     organized in collaboration with the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB); and (iii) a
     donors conference in February 2007, which was opened by then World Bank
     President Paul Wolfowitz, Keith Mitchell, then Prime Minister of Grenada, and Omar
     Davies, then Minister of Finance and Planning for Jamaica. Detailed reports on the
     work to design the Facility were provided at the latter two events. A briefing was
     also provided to the Small Island Developing States (SIDs) under the auspices of the
     United Nations Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries,
     Landlocked Developing Countries, and Small Island Developing States, given the
     interest of the latter in CCRIF as a possible model for similar facilities in other
     regions of the world, such as the South Pacific.

2.2 Implementation

27. Implementation proceeded smoothly under the leadership of CCRIF’s Board of
    Directors and with the capable technical and administrative support of the Facility
    Supervisor, Insurance Manager, Communications Consultant, Investment Managers,
    and Reinsurance Brokers. The project was never at risk and no restructuring was ever
    contemplated or required other than to put into effect the expected increases in the
    amount of the Grant. Disbursements were consistently ahead of projections and were
    completed before the closing date of the Grant. CCRIF’s quarterly reports to the
    Bank were timely and met the requirements of the Grant Agreement. External audits
    of CCRIF’s financial statements were also timely, as well as unqualified. The
    auditor’s management letters never expressed material concerns about CCRIF’s
    internal controls. An on-site inspection of CCRIF in 2011 by its regulator, the
    Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (CIMA), found it to be fully in compliance with
    the relevant regulatory regime and CCRIF’s Trust Deed. In implementing the project,
    CCRIF gave careful consideration to the recommendations that the Bank made in
    three in-depth assessments of CCRIF’s operations and took steps to strengthen its
    operations in line with those recommendations. 14 (See Section 5(b), Quality of
    Supervision, for examples.)



14
  The three reports were: (i) “A Review of CCRIF’s Operation After Its First Season?; World Bank,
December 1, 2008; (ii) “A Review of CCRIF’s Operation After Its Second Season?; World Bank, April
2010; and (iii) “Reducing Financial Vulnerability to Natural Disasters in the Caribbean: A Review of
CCRIF’s Operation After Its Third Season?; World Bank, April 2011.

                                                12
28. CCRIF rapidly built its capital and risk bearing capacity. As of May 31, 2011, the
    end of CCRIF’s fourth year of operations – the latest year for which externally
    audited financial statements are currently available – it had retained earnings of
    US$89.8 million and total assets somewhat in excess of US$114.0 million. 15
    Disbursements from the MDTF amounting to nearly US$71 million made a major
    contribution, as intended, to the growth of CCRIF’s risk bearing capacity by
    reimbursing it for major operational and risk transfer costs and policy payouts within
    its risk retention. Annex 3 discusses the contribution of donor support to CCRIF’s
    survivability in greater detail. The fortunate occurrence of total policy payouts below
    CCRIF’s modeled average annual loss (AAL) in its first three years of operation also
    contributed. In its fifth financial year, from June 1, 2011, to May 31, 2012, CCRIF
    made no payouts at all, thanks in part to the mild 2011 Atlantic hurricane season.

                  Table 3: Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
                                Payouts as of June 26, 2012

          Event                      Date                   Member Affected             Payout (US$)
Earthquake                      November 29, 2007             Dominica                           528,021

Earthquake                      November 29, 2007               St. Lucia                         418,976

Tropical Cyclone Ike              September 2008            Turks and Caicos                     6,303,913
                                                                Islands

Earthquake                        January 12, 2010                Haiti                          7,753,579

Tropical Cyclone Earl               August 2010                  Anguilla                        4,282,733

Tropical Cyclone Tomas             October 2010                 Barbados                         8,560,247

Tropical Cyclone Tomas             October 2010                 St. Lucia                        3,241,613

Tropical Cyclone Tomas             October 2010            St. Vincent and the                   1,090,388
                                                               Grenadines

                                 Total Payouts                                             US$32,179,470

29. For the fifth consecutive year, June 1, 2011, to May 31, 2012, all members again
    renewed their policies. CCRIF wrote 16 hurricane and 13 earthquake policies with a
    total coverage limit of US$624.4 million. It obtained reinsurance to cover US$125
    million of this risk. The bulk of this risk transfer – US$95 million – occurred through
    competitive contracts to cede reinsurance to global reinsurance companies. The
    balance was initially taken up by the Bank’s Treasury, which then swapped it to
    reinsurers via the capital market. This reinsurance gave CCRIF the capacity to pay
    claims associated with a series of catastrophes of such large magnitude that they are
    expected to occur only once in every 1,401 years without needing to draw on its own


15
  CCRIF’s financial statements, as yet unaudited, for its financial year ending May 31, 2012, show retained
earnings of US$94.6 million and total assets of US$118.4 million.

                                                     13
     capital for more than US$25 million (its retained risk for 2011-2012). With CCRIF’s
     assets over and above US$25 million, it had the capacity to withstand an even more
     severe series of events with a modeled probability of occurring only once in every
     10,000 years, although it would require recapitalization in order to continue operating
     thereafter.16

30. The Facility has consistently been conscious of the importance of providing financial
    value to its members, particularly in light of their fiscal constraints – limited revenue
    bases and high levels of indebtedness. Accordingly, as CCRIF’s financial strength
    has grown, it has taken steps to make its coverage more affordable. Since its first
    year of operations, CCRIF has lowered its pricing three times for a total reduction of
    about 30 percent. Members have taken advantage of these reductions to increase their
    coverage steadily. As a result, CCRIF’s aggregate policy limits increased by 26.2
    percent from US$494.8 million in its first year of operations to a total of US$624.4
    million for 2011-2012.17 In addition, CCRIF reduced the minimum participation fee
    requirement for members of three years standing from 100 percent of premium to 50
    percent. This enabled members to draw on their deposits to defray part of the cost of
    their premiums for the fourth year. Finally, given the continued growth of CCRIF’s
    capital strength, it took the decision that, beginning with the year commencing on
    June 1, 2012, it would provide members a premium discount for any year following a
    year in which it had made no payouts. The discount is equal to 25 percent of the
    respective member’s premium in the year in which no claims were paid. No claims
    having been paid in 2011-2012, CCRIF members were able to benefit from this
    discount on their 2012-2013 coverage.

31. CCRIF has shown flexibility in responding to other needs of its members. In October
    2010, following Hurricane Tomas, CCRIF responded to the urgent appeal of the
    affected countries – Barbados, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines – for
    immediate support. Moving more quickly than required by the terms of their policies,
    CCRIF advanced to them 50 percent of their expected payouts within a matter of days,
    providing the balance within the normal period of two weeks after the event.

32. CCRIF is also expanding its product line. Working with risk modelers, CIMH,
    members’ authorities, and reinsurers, it has overcome a number of data and
    methodological difficulties and is in the final stages of developing a policy to insure
    against excess rainfall. It expects to begin offering coverage for this additional peril
    early in its 2012-2013 financial year. This is of great interest to a number of CCRIF
    members, with Jamaica and Haiti expected to be among the first to take up the
    product. In addition, the product is thought likely to attract new members – possibly



16
   For its sixth year – June 1, 2012, to May 31, 2013 – CCRIF wrote policies totaling US$626.2 million,
with all 16 members renewing. It maintained its risk retention at US$25 million and obtained reinsurance
amounting to US$120 million, including a US$30 million swap intermediated by the World Bank Treasury.
The top of CCRIF’s US$145 million of combined risk retention and reinsurance is estimated to give it the
capacity to pay claims arising from a 1 in 1,125 year event.
17
   US$626.2 million for 2012-2013.

                                                  14
     Guyana, Suriname, the British Virgin Islands, and/or Montserrat – an expansion that
     would benefit all members by further diversifying CCRIF’s risk pool.

33. The Facility has sought to increase its value to its members in non-financial ways. In
    2009, it initiated a technical assistance (TA) program, which is funded by a portion of
    its investment income and aimed at strengthening its members’ awareness and
    understanding of their disaster vulnerability and disaster risk management capacity.18
    The program consists of three components: (i) a scholarship and professional
    development program for students and officials from CARICOM countries studying
    or working in areas of environment, sustainable development, meteorology, and
    insurance; (ii) regional strategic knowledge building activities; and (iii) support for
    local DRM initiatives. The latter is not yet under way but is to be developed in
    collaboration with other development partners in the region so as to avoid duplication
    of effort and inefficient use of resources.

34. Most recently, in June 2012, CCRIF awarded two scholarships following a
    competitive application process. Both for two-year programs, the first was for a
    Masters in Public Administration in Environmental Science and Policy from
    Columbia University and the other for a Masters of Science in Climate Change and
    Development from Sussex University. Previously, in collaboration with UWI and
    through a competitive application process, CCRIF awarded three scholarships for
    undergraduate and three for post-graduate studies at institutions forming part of the
    UWI system in areas related to DRM such as civil and environmental engineering,
    geography and geology, and disaster management. CCRIF also granted a scholarship
    to a national of one of its members to pursue a Masters of Science degree in
    Atmosphere, Ocean and Climate at Reading University.

35. CCRIF has sponsored various conferences, professional development workshops and
    seminars, sometimes providing funding to facilitate the participation of CCRIF
    member officials. One recent example of this is CCRIF’s sponsorship for the Sixth
    Caribbean Conference on Comprehensive Disaster Management (CDM) held in
    Trinidad in December 2011 under the auspices of CDEMA. This sponsorship was
    provided within the framework of the MOU between CCRIF and CDEMA. CCRIF’s
    sponsorship provided support for the inaugural High-Level Session, a plenary session,
    and two professional development sessions on the Global Earthquake Model,
    conducted by UWI/SRC, and Flood Early Warning Systems, conducted by the Japan
    International Cooperation Agency. This sponsorship followed similar support for
    CDEMA CDM conferences in the previous two years. CCRIF also provided
    sponsorship for the sixth conference of the Caribbean Division of the Institution of
    Structural Engineers in October 2011, also in Port-of-Spain, the theme of which was
    “Environmentally Sustainable Construction – Mitigation and Adaptation to Climate
    Change.? CCRIF itself hosted the annual meeting of the World Forum of Catastrophe


18
  TA spending is capped at 50 percent of the previous year’s investment income. The amount budgeted
and spent, however, is based on a disciplined process of Board review and approval of specific programs
and activities. To date, annual TA budgets have not risen to the level of the cap.

                                                  15
     Programmes in Jamaica in October 2011, the Forum being a mechanism for sharing
     information and experiences among public sector-supported catastrophe risk
     insurance systems. Other recent examples of CCRIF’s professional development and
     knowledge sharing activities include workshops to improve understanding of the
     forthcoming excess rainfall product, held in collaboration with CIMH, and to train
     Caribbean disaster risk management and meteorological officials in use of Real Time
     Forecasting System (RTFS), which CCRIF licenses from Kinetic Analysis
     Corporation (KAC) and provides free of cost to its members.19

36. One important knowledge generation effort that CCRIF funded was the Economics of
    Climate Adaptation (ECA) Initiative, which it carried out in collaboration with
    CCCCC and UN-ECLAC with analytical support from Swiss Re and McKinsey &
    Company. Using the ECA methodology, 20 the study conducted a cost-benefit
    analysis of a range of adaptation measures to reduce damage to physical assets,
    behavioral measures such as enforcement of zoning and building codes, and financial
    risk transfer options in eight pilot countries.21 This analysis was aimed at providing
    the facts and tools to develop cost effective strategies that could be incorporated into
    national adaptation programs of action and helped the countries prepare for their
    participation in COP-16.

37. Seeking to anchor itself firmly within the broader framework of disaster risk
    management strategies and programs in the Caribbean, CCRIF has built a number of
    partnerships with other Caribbean institutions. As already noted in Section 1.4,
    Beneficiaries, CCRIF has signed MOUs with CIMH, CDEMA, CCCCC, UN-ECLAC,
    SRC, and the OECS Secretariat. The MOUs provide the framework for collaboration
    through information exchange and support for specific activities, which are intended
    to improve the understanding of disaster risk and the quantity and quality of related
    data, not only to support CCRIF’s work and that of its partner, but also to benefit
    CCRIF members and the region more broadly. For example, the MOU with CIMH
    calls for collaboration in the areas of research into catastrophe risk and development
    of new products, specifically the excess rainfall product, provision of real-time
    information to Caribbean countries and institutions such as CDEMA on tropical
    cyclones, and training for officials in the region in hydrology and meteorology.


19
   The Arbiter of Storms-Real Time Forecasting System (its full name) was developed by KAC to facilitate
better prediction of and response to storms and their likely effects. Users can obtain maps and tabular
estimates, updated at regular, frequent intervals, of factors such as maximum hazard intensity for wind
speed, wave and storm surge height, and cumulative rainfall. They can also obtain estimates of the impact
of varying hazard levels on their territory and the storm’s operational impact on major sea and airports, as
well as other site-specific hazard and impact maps. Such information is particularly useful to members’
emergency management agencies and air and sea port authorities, for example in making timely decisions
regarding relocation of equipment, evacuation of people, temporary shelter, and deployment of disaster
recovery staff and materiel.
20
   A methodology developed by the ECA Working Group, a consortium of public and private sector
institutions including the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), United Nations Environment Programme
(UNEP), Swiss Re, the Rockefeller Foundation, Climate Works, Standard Chartered, McKinsey &
Company, and the EU.
21
   Anguilla, Cayman Islands, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Barbados, Jamaica, Bermuda and St. Lucia.

                                                    16
   CCRIF provides funding for these activities and associated equipment and CIMH, in
   kind support in personnel and facilities.

38. The support provided by CCRIF and CIMH to relief and reconstruction efforts in
    Haiti following the January 10, 2010, earthquake is a concrete example of the benefits
    of such collaboration. CIMH developed publicly available, fully automated rainfall
    and flood prediction and inundation risk products for three watersheds identified as
    critical by CCRIF and, in collaboration with CCRIF, assisted the Haitian authorities,
    international donors, and others in their use to inform urgent decisions on matters
    such as the location of temporary shelters and tent camps for displaced persons, key
    relief and recovery operational centers, and transportation hubs. These products
    continue to be used in decision making regarding reconstruction of critical
    infrastructure. In another example, under the MOU between CCRIF and SRC, CCRIF
    is helping to fund installation of a new accelerometric network consisting of twelve
    strong-motion sensors in Jamaica and across the Eastern Caribbean. Data produced
    by this network is expected to strengthen disaster preparedness and will be used to
    refine CCRIF’s model. CCRIF is developing specific work plans with its other
    partners.

39. CCRIF also offers technical assistance to members that have been affected by a
    disaster that caused damage but not enough to trigger their policy. One case of this is
    financing for academic studies in meteorology for personnel to strengthen capacity at
    the NMHS of Belize.

40. CCRIF has steadily expanded its outreach to other stakeholders such as donors and
    the general public, through direct contacts, use of print, radio, and television media,
    participation in conferences, and development of its own website. News bulletins,
    press releases, and quarterly and annual reports are issued and made available on
    CCRIF’s website, along with a variety of technical publications on specialized topics
    including CCRIF’s product range, characteristics of parametric insurance, the RTFS,
    and the economics of climate change. Publications and other information on
    CCRIF’s website document the rapid increase in use of its website, the number of
    outreach and partnership activities, and the volume of press coverage. These
    communications activities have helped to enhance understanding of CCRIF’s role in
    disaster risk management and contributed to the consolidation of its standing as a
    Caribbean institution.

41. Finally, CCRIF worked consistently to strengthen its governance and continues to do
    so. Key actions in this regard include:

    The Board set a Strategic Plan for 2009-2012, including vision and mission
     statements, objectives, and specific performance targets for operational efficiency,
     internal controls, new product development, pricing and financial stability, and
     stakeholder communications. It up-dated the plan annually and, in February 2012,
     adopted a new Strategic Plan for 2012-2015, again with specific objectives, and
     action plan, and performance targets. To enhance transparency, both Strategic

                                            17
           Plans were published on CCRIF’s website. Quarterly reports prepared by the
           Communications Consultant align the presentation of CCRIF’s activities and
           accomplishments with the specific objectives in the Strategic Plan in order to
           focus on results. Announcements of key Board decisions also enhance CCRIF’s
           transparency.
          The Board also instituted a number of procedures to strengthen budget
           formulation, implementation, and monitoring and to improve records of the
           Board’s proceedings and ensure appropriate follow-up to its decisions.
          Annual reviews of the Operations Manual were conducted, with up-dates, as
           necessary, in areas such as: (i) policy with respect to frequency of retendering
           contracts for service providers and their scope of work; (ii) rules of Board
           procedure, including the nomination, compensation, and term of Directors; (iii)
           internal controls, including arrangements for authorizing payments for goods and
           services; (iv) terms of reference of the service providers; and (v) ethics rules.
          A transition in composition of the Board was completed such that four Directors
           have now been appointed, two by the CDB on behalf of the donors and two by
           CARICOM on behalf of the members, in accordance with the procedures
           established in CCRIF’s Trust Deed.22
          The Board developed and has begun to implement a plan to mitigate the risk of
           business interruption and loss of institutional memory by better balancing the
           terms of reference of the service providers, creating a full-time chief executive
           officer position, adjusting the scope of work of the Executive Chairman of the
           Board and the Facility Supervisor accordingly, and staggering the terms of the
           Directors.
          At its June 2012 meeting, the Board reviewed CCRIF’s governance structure in
           light of recommendations made by the International Association of Insurance
           Supervisors in January 2012 on the regulation and supervision of captive
           insurance companies. CIMA intends to implement the recommendations once
           finalized. Based on this review, the Board decided to strengthen its structure and
           processes. Enhancements include the formal establishment of a Board Sub-
           Committee for Internal Audit and Risk Management and formalization and
           expansion of the terms of reference for the Reinsurance and Investment Sub-
           Committees to ensure that risk management is adequately addressed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

42. The IBTF set forth the following key performance indicators: “Establishment of the
    Facility by end March 2007, and natural catastrophe risk coverage provided to
    participant countries for the Hurricane Seasons 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010.? The
    kind of more elaborate formal results monitoring and evaluation framework that is
    annexed to a PAD was not prepared because, as indicated in paragraph 6, the Bank




22
     Under the terms of the Trust Deed, the four Directors can then appoint an Executive Director.


                                                      18
   policy for trust-funded operations which was in effect at the time the project was
   prepared and approved did not require one.

43. During project implementation, a results framework was developed for supervision
    purposes. The first ISR, dated June 2008, specified the following:

    PDO level indicator: “Countries are eligible for insurance payment (and have
     received payment in case of an insured event).?
         o Baseline: “CCRIF not yet established?
         o End-of-Project Target Value: “Participation fee paid and insurance policy
            purchased?
    Intermediate outcome indicator – “Total claims paying capacity of CCRIF?
         o Baseline: “0?
         o End-of-Project Target Value: “US$110 million?

These indicators were tracked and data were used to inform decisions with respect to
policy pricing, reinsurance, and formulation, implementation, and monitoring of the
Strategic Plan.

44. A survey of beneficiaries was conducted in June 2011 to assess their awareness of
    CCRIF, understanding of its products and services, and contributions to disaster risk
    management in the Caribbean (See Section 3.6). CCRIF drew on the findings of this
    evaluation in crafting its new Strategic Plan 2012-2015.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

45. The project did not trigger any environmental or social safeguards.

46. Fiduciary performance was without shortcomings. Procurement and financial
    management were handled in accordance with the conditions of the Grant Agreement.
    As indicated in Section 2.2, Implementation, external audits of CCRIF’s financial
    statements were timely and unqualified and the auditor’s management letters never
    expressed material concerns about CCRIF’s internal controls. CCRIF’s quarterly
    reports to the Bank met the requirements of the Grant Agreement and were timely.
    An on-site inspection of CCRIF in 2011 by its regulator, CIMA, found it to be fully in
    compliance with the relevant regulatory regime and CCRIF’s Trust Deed.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

47. Donor support provided through the MDTF achieved its major objective of
    establishing CCRIF as a fully functioning independent legal entity capable of
    sustaining itself based on premium income from its members, coupled with income
    from its investments (see Annex 3 for a further discussion of the contribution of
    donor support to CCRIF’s financial sustainability). CCRIF’s pricing policy is
    explicitly designed to balance the interests of its members in affordable insurance
    with the need to defray its key operational expenses and maintain the financial

                                            19
   strength required to continue providing valuable insurance and other services to its
   members. For 2011-2012, it had robust risk bearing capacity sufficient, as indicated
   in Section 2.2, to withstand a series of disasters with a modeled probability of
   occurring only once in every 1401 years without needing to draw on more than
   US$25 million of its US$114 million of assets. CCRIF’s assets over and above
   US$25 million would serve to pay claims associated with a 1 in 10,000 year event,
   although it would require recapitalization thereafter to continue operations.

48. CCRIF’s next important institutional step is to launch the excess rainfall product.
    Planned for early in its 2012-2013 financial year, the availability of this product is
    expected to lead, as indicated in paragraph 32, to some expansion of CCRIF’s
    membership.

49. In addition, CCRIF is working with the Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII)
    to develop parametric micro and portfolio insurance products of two sorts, which are
    expected to be piloted in three CCRIF countries: Grenada, Jamaica, and St. Lucia.
    The first would be a livelihood protection product for small scale producers and
    businesses – such as farmers and tourism operators – that would provide payouts
    following weather-related natural disasters of pre-determined magnitudes in order to
    offset a portion of their income and other economic losses from the disasters. This
    product would be underwritten by locally licensed insurance companies and
    distributed through institutions such as cooperatives, credit unions, micro-finance
    agencies with community reach. CCRIF is exploring the possibility of acting as a
    reinsurer to the issuing institutions. The second would be a product for institutions
    such as credit unions and development banks that have significant portfolios of loans
    to individuals and micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises. The product would
    provide coverage to the credit institutions against the risk of losses in its portfolio due
    to defaults arising from the impact of weather-related events on the borrowers’ debt
    service capacity. With regulatory approval, CCRIF could write the product directly.

50. CCRIF will continue its partnerships with other Caribbean institutions, bilateral
    donors, and the World Bank with a view to helping to strengthen disaster risk
    management in the Caribbean. Discussions with the European Union delegation in
    Bridgetown, Barbados, are currently under way regarding possible specific areas of
    development cooperation.

51. Finally, CCRIF has provided some initial support to the Caribbean Electrical Utility
    Service Corporation (CARILEC) in exploring technical, financial, and institutional
    options for parametric insurance for its member utilities. Depending on interest from
    CARILEC, it plans to continue this collaboration.




                                              20
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High

52. The project remains highly relevant to the challenges facing in the countries in the
    Caribbean, their development priorities, and the World Bank’s strategies for
    partnering with them. Natural disasters, which can cause damage equal to a
    significant share if not even a multiple of GDP and which disproportionately affect
    the poor, are no less a concern to the countries in the region now than they were at the
    time of project appraisal. Indeed, concerns are mounting that weather-related
    disasters may be increasing in their frequency and severity, while the risk of seismic
    disasters is, of course, ever present. Thus, financial risk transfer through insurance or
    participation in a joint reserve mechanism such as CCRIF that can pay out rapidly
    continues to be an essential element of a broader natural disaster risk management
    strategy.

53. The capacity of most of the Caribbean countries individually to absorb the financial
    impact of natural disasters remains severely limited by geographical factors, their
    modest fiscal revenues, and high debt levels. Some amount of donor assistance is
    usually available to them in the wake of a catastrophe, but often comes with a delay.
    This inhibits the governments’ efforts to jump start relief efforts and begin mobilizing
    the much larger amount of resources needed for full recovery. Thus, while much of
    the focus in the countries’ development plans and in the World Bank’s country
    partnership strategies is on engineering solutions and social interventions to make
    infrastructure, housing, businesses, and people’s livelihoods more resilient to natural
    disasters, financial risk transfer, including through parametric instruments, also
    continues to figure as a necessary tool in the countries’ broader overall strategies for
    effective disaster risk management. The World Bank is currently elaborating a
    programmatic engagement on disaster risk management and climate resilience in the
    Caribbean region, elements of which will include the expansion of opportunities for
    financial risk transfer, as well as engineering and behavioral adaptation solutions.
    CCRIF’s on-going interest in broadening the ECA Initiative, described in paragraph
    36, is another aspect of the project’s continuing relevance.

54. The project is also highly relevant to the Bank’s broader corporate objective of
    diversifying Bank instruments and developing structures to smooth shocks.
    Catastrophe insurance is one such instrument and facilities based on the same
    principles as CCRIF are being developed in the Pacific, Mexico, and elsewhere.




                                             21
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: High

55. The PDO of the trust fund was to support the establishment and operation of CCRIF
    in order to reduce the Caribbean countries' financial vulnerability to earthquakes and
    hurricanes. This objective and the associated PDO and intermediate outcome
    indicators as set forth in the ISRs (see Section 2.3 above) were fully achieved.

56. The trust fund successfully supported CCRIF’s establishment and operations by
    reimbursing it for major operational expenses, reinsurance costs, and claims paid
    within its risk retention during its first four years. MDTF support enabled CCRIF to
    retain more of its premium income than would otherwise have been possible, thus
    accelerating its trajectory towards becoming a financially sustainable, self-standing
    insurance provider. For 2011-2012, CCRIF had the capacity to pay $150 million in
    claims, associated with a series of catastrophes of such large magnitude that they are
    expected to occur only once in every 1,401 years, without needing to draw more than
    US$25 million (its retained risk) from its own capital of $114 million. With CCRIF’s
    assets over and above US$25 million, it could withstand an even more severe series
    of events with a modeled probability of occurring only once in every 10,000 years.

57. By both of these measures (dollar amounts and frequency of disaster), CCRIF’s
    claims paying capacity by far exceeds expectations. The target for CCRIF’s end-of-
    project claims paying capacity was set in the ISRs at US$110 million, versus the
    US$150 million achieved for 2011-2012, while the expectation in terms of return
    period was one in 200 years, versus the one in 1,401 years achieved with reinsurance
    and US$25 million of CCRIF’s own resources.23 The latter compares favorably with
    the claims paying capacity of the CEA, which is estimated at one in 850 years.

58. As expressed in the PDO, the purpose of establishing CCRIF was to reduce
    Caribbean countries’ financial vulnerability to earthquakes and hurricanes. This
    objective has been achieved. By its very nature, the purchase of insurance reduces
    financial vulnerability. The 16 Caribbean countries and territories that joined CCRIF
    in 2007 purchased 29 policies, which they have since renewed annually. Coverage
    that they have obtained from these policies rose by 26.2 percent from an aggregate of
    US$494.8 million in 2007-2008 to US$624.4 million in 2011-2012.24 These policies
    have provided them with a hedge against the financial risk associated with
    earthquakes and hurricanes and the certainty of timely support in the event of a
    disaster of sufficient magnitude to trigger the policy.

59. The seven CCRIF members that have been affected by covered disasters received the
    additional financial benefit of a rapid infusion of liquidity into their general budgets


23
   Memorandum to the Executive Directors – Proposed Transfer of IBRD Surplus to Support a Caribbean
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility; February 9, 2007; page 10.
24
   US$626.2 million for 2012-2013.

                                                22
     at a crucial time of particular need. Such budget support has totaled US$32.2 million
     to date. The use of these cash transfers, which came within two weeks or less of the
     disaster, was in no way earmarked or restricted. This allowed the recipient countries
     to mount their initial high priority relief and recovery efforts more quickly and
     extensively than would have been possible without the payouts and without needing
     immediately to incur additional short-term government debt. Being able to move
     quickly enabled the governments to prevent or at least restrain the further
     deterioration of damaged infrastructure and added human suffering, thus helping
     them to improve the quality and scope of their initial response while they went about
     mobilizing the much larger amount of financing needed for the broader recovery and
     reconstruction.25

60. Members who have received payouts report having allocated them for purposes such
    as:

      temporary feeding stations for displaced and other affected persons (Turks and
       Caicos Islands);
      immediate reconstruction and stabilization of government processes and provision
       of civilian security (Haiti);26
      capital expenditures, e.g., clearing silty rivers, unblocking major roads, stabilizing
       drinking water plants, and repair of a key government building (St. Lucia);
      recovery efforts under direction of the environmental management agency and
       emergency repairs of key infrastructure, including a major road along the port
       (Barbados);
      clearing of debris, repairing general damage, capitalizing a special recovery fund
       and purchasing upgraded weather monitoring data-capture technology and
       portable weather systems to improve early warning (Anguilla); and
      acquiring building and other materials for persons whose homes or crops had been
       damaged (St. Vincent and the Grenadines).

61. Statements by senior Caribbean officials following Hurricane Tomas and the January
    10, 2010, earthquake that struck Haiti serve to illustrate important views of the high
    level of CCRIF’s relevance and efficacy:27



25
   To improve capacity to absorb cash transfers such as CCRIF payouts and use them effectively for
activities benefiting affected persons, the Bank has been working with a number of countries in the
Caribbean to strengthen the legal framework and processes for emergency budget appropriation and
execution.
26
   The US$7.75 million payment represented approximately 20 times Haiti’s earthquake premium. Among
the approximately 130 articles from regional, international, insurance, and other press outlets, the following
from an article on the Center for Global Development website, which was quoted in the CCRIF Quarterly
Report for 1 December, 2009 – 28 February, 2010, page 18: “The sum is small, but the proof of concept,
powerful. The CCRIF moved faster than the World Bank, faster than the IMF, faster than the U.S.
government. If another 0 or so were appended to the CCRIF financing numbers, it could become a superior
alternative to ad hoc debt relief and debt creation at dire moments.?
27
   Barbados and Anguilla citations taken from CCRIF’s Quarterly Report for 1 June – 31 August 2011,
pages 10 and 12; Jamaica citation, Quarterly Report for 1 December 2010 – 28 February, 2011, pages 9 and

                                                     23
     Barbados Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs, Chris Sinkler, in his
      Financial Statement and Budgetary Proposals for 2011 delivered to Parliament in
      August 2011, indicated that fiscal revenues for 2010-2011 had decreased but that
      “the full impact of this reduction was however not felt due to the receipt of the
      insurance payout from the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
      (CCRIF) for the damage caused by Tomas during the month of November 2010.?
     The Government of Anguilla’s website indicates that Acting Permanent Secretary
      in the Ministry of Infrastructure of Anguilla, Mr. Bancroft Battick, stated that
      Anguilla’s membership in CCRIF has brought significant benefits to the island,
      the major one being to make the Government of Anguilla as robust as possible to
      natural . . . disasters, with enhanced ability to respond after a major disaster event.?
     At the fifth Caribbean Conference on Disaster Management in Jamaica in
      December 2010, the Jamaica Information Service reported that then-Prime
      Minister Bruce Golding described CCRIF as “one of the most significant
      developments to have taken place in recent years in the region? and went on to
      say “I am really pleased with the speed with which CCRIF has been able to
      respond to those cases – Haiti, Anguilla, and the Eastern Caribbean countries –
      that were battered by Tomas.?
     Speaking after Hurricane Tomas and expressing appreciation for the advance of
      the CCRIF payout, Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves of St. Vincent and the
      Grenadines said the early payment would facilitate “urgent restoration of services
      and clearing of the affected areas.?
     At the COFAP 2010 meeting, then CARICOM Secretary-General Edwin
      Carrington stated, “[CARICOM’s] wisdom and foresight were evident in the
      creation of the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) whose
      prompt pay-out to Haiti turned out to be one of the significant sources of
      financing in this, Haiti’s hour of need.?

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: High

62. CCRIF is a highly efficient vehicle through which members can reduce their financial
    vulnerability to natural catastrophes. At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that
    CCRIF insurance would cost 60 to 70 percent less than the members’ cost of self-
    insurance and 45 to 50 percent less than the cost of insurance that they would be able
    to get individually in traditional markets. A reassessment for this ICR based on
    current market conditions reconfirms that participation in CCRIF is a highly efficient
    way for its members to reduce their financial vulnerability to natural catastrophes.
    The paragraphs below describe the methodology and results of the reassessment.




14; St. Vincent and the Grenadines citation, Quarterly Report for 1 September 2010 – 30 November 2010,
page 1; Haiti citation, Quarterly Report for 1 December, 2009 – 28 February, 2010, page 13.

                                                 24
63. Before entering into this reassessment, it should also be noted that, as an institution,
    CCRIF is highly efficient. One measure of its efficiency is its annual operating
    expenditures. CCRIF has kept these at 5 percent or less of its annual premium
    income. Another measure may be found in the fact that only 3.6 percent of Grant
    resources went to cover operational costs, including Board expenses and fees for
    professional services.

Methodology of reassessment

64. The financial benefits of participation in CCRIF can be assessed through a
    comparison of the long-term average price of coverage for CARICOM governments
    through CCRIF with: (i) the case where the country would have to go individually to
    the reinsurance market to buy the same coverage; and (ii) the case where the country
    would self-retain the same amount of catastrophe risks because insurance would not
    be available on the market. These results can be compared to those estimated at the
    time of appraisal of the CCRIF project.
65. The individual country costs of transfer of the same risk directly to the international
    market are estimated by using the reinsurance pricing algorithm that is used to
    estimate CCRIF’s reinsurance costs. This then assumes that individual countries
    would get the same reinsurance pricing as CCRIF does, which likely leads to a
    significant underestimation of those costs to the country (because of economies of
    scale and other factors) and therefore an underestimation of likely savings. CCRIF
    pricing is compared against individual country direct reinsurance market coverage.
66. The cost of self-retention if the country had to retain this risk (because insurance
    markets were not available or countries viewed coverage as too costly) through
    reserves is estimated as the annual average loss plus the opportunity cost of reserves
    for the same risk currently covered by the CCRIF. The opportunity cost of reserves is
    equal to the amount of reserves necessary to provide a payout equal to the coverage
    limit at the exhaustion point of a country’s CCRIF coverage, multiplied by the
    marginal opportunity cost of capital. In the spring of 2012, the average marginal
    opportunity cost of capital for CCRIF countries is estimated at 7.5 percent.
Findings of reassessment

67. As described in Table 4 below, compared to the cost of an individual country going
    directly to the reinsurance market, CCRIF pricing for hurricane coverage runs about
    59 to 54 percent less expensive. For earthquake coverage, this range is from about 62
    to 54 percent less expensive. The cost savings of CCRIF coverage versus the non-
    market-based scenario of self-retention are even greater. Compared to the cost an
    individual country ensuring the availability of the same amount of cover as is
    provided by its CCRIF policy, CCRIF cover for hurricanes is about 75 to 57 percent
    less expensive. For earthquake cover, this range is from about 85 percent to 58
    percent less expensive.




                                            25
            Table 4: Comparison of original estimates of CCRIF savings
                        with estimates of achieved savings

                                                Appraisal              Current (actual)
          Coverage comparison
                                            estimation range           estimation range
                                           Hurricane
      CCRIF savings vs Market              48-56%                     54-59%
      CCRIF savings vs Self-
                                            65-71%                    57-75%
      retention
                                          Earthquake
      CCRIF savings vs Market              42-47%                     54-62%
      CCRIF savings vs Self-
                                            49-53%                    58-85%
      retention
    Source: Appraisal stage estimates from World Bank (2007). Achieved estimates by World Bank
    Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program, with data from CCRIF (2012).

68. As can be seen from Table 4, CCRIF has outperformed the original estimates of the
    cost savings that it would provide almost invariably across scenarios. This is true for
    the estimated savings of CCRIF coverage against self-retention across countries for
    earthquakes and for many countries for hurricane even when the marginal opportunity
    cost of capital estimate used at appraisal was 12 percent and in the current estimation
    is only 7.5 percent (making self-retention a less expensive option in the current
    macroeconomic environment).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

69. Financial risk transfer through catastrophe insurance remains highly relevant to the
    development needs of the Caribbean Islands. They are highly exposed to adverse
    natural events, including earthquakes and hydrometeorological disasters such as
    hurricanes and excess rainfall, the latter of which may be trending toward increased
    frequency and severity.

70. The development objective of the trust fund and project was fully achieved: (i)
    CCRIF was established; 16 Caribbean countries and territories paid participation fees
    and purchased 29 policies, which they have renewed and increased annually, thereby
    reducing their financial vulnerability to natural disasters; (ii) CCRIF has made
    payouts totaling US$32.2 million to members affected by covered earthquakes and
    hurricanes within two weeks or less of the event, thereby helping them to improve the
    quality of their disaster response; and (iii) CCRIF is financially solid and able to
    sustain current operations without further donor support.




                                                26
71. CCRIF is an efficient means for its members to reduce their financial vulnerability to
    earthquakes and hurricanes. Their cost of catastrophe insurance through CCRIF is
    significantly below what they would be required to pay if they sought such insurance
    individually and directly through reinsurance and capital markets, or if they were to
    establish individual reserve funds, and this cost was reduced several times during
    project implementation.

72. Finally, CCRIF itself is operationally efficient. It has limited its expenditures for
    operating the Facility to around 5 percent of gross premium income, thus opening the
    opportunity to reduce its pricing and also to expand its financial capacity for research
    and development activities and technical assistance. The Grant was disbursed in full
    without any need for a closing date extension.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

73. From a raw start-up in 2007, CCRIF has rapidly become a strong institution, led by
    an experienced Board of Directors and supported by highly qualified professional
    service providers. In addition to its financial strength (see Section 3.2), CCRIF’s
    governance structure is sound. It is well regulated by CIMA. As detailed in Section
    2.2, Implementation, the Board of Directors has taken a number of steps to strengthen
    CCRIF’s governance. CCRIF has consolidated its reputation as a Caribbean
    institution, as demonstrated by the desire of a number of other Caribbean institutions
    to partner with it. Positive feedback provided by respondents to the beneficiary
    survey (see Section 3.6) reinforces this point. In addition, although a Caribbean
    institution, CCRIF has global name recognition. Members of its Board and
    representatives of its service providers are eagerly sought as speakers and panelists to
    share CCRIF’s experiences at conferences and other professional events around the
    world having to do with disaster risk transfer and management and related matters.28



28
   Some examples include: (i) the UN Climate Change Conference, Durban, South Africa, November 28-
December 9, 2011; (ii) International Workshop, “Insurance for Climate Change Adaptation for Private,
Productive, and Financial Sectors,? hosted by the Ministry of Finance of Peru, Lima, October 12-14, 2011;
(iii) European consultation for the UNEP Finance Initiative Principles for Sustainable Insurance, hosted by
Munich Re, Germany, October 25-26, 2011; (iv) Pacific Regional Capacity Building Workshop on
Enhancing Access to Finance in the Agricultural Sector, hosted by UNCTAD, Fiji, October 20-21, 2011;
(v) Forum for Agricultural Risk Management in Development Annual Conference, Zurich, June 9-10,
2011; (vi) 31st Annual Conference of the Insurance Association of the Caribbean, Trinidad and Tobago,
June 6-7, 2011; (vii) “Responding to Climate Change in the Caribbean,? conference hosted by the Institute
for the Study of the Americas, London, June 13-14, 2011; (viii) meeting of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners, Texas, March 26, 2011; and (ix) Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries, Istanbul, May 9-13, 2011.

                                                   27
   Providing further evidence of CCRIF’s global reputation as a successful innovator,
   the German government funded an agreement between MCII and CCRIF to develop
   parametric insurance products – a livelihood protection product for small-scale
   entrepreneurs such as farmers, tourism operators, fishermen, and shopkeepers and a
   product to provide weather coverage for the portfolios of development banks’ and
   similar institutions’ loans to such entrepreneurs (see paragraph 49).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

74. A beneficiary survey was conducted in June 2011 to assess stakeholders’ perspectives
    of CCRIF’s impact and expectations for its future. One hundred invitations to
    participate in the survey were sent to officials in CCRIF members’ disaster and
    emergency management agencies, meteorological services, ministries of finance, and
    insurance regulators. Representatives of Caribbean partner institutions were also
    invited to participate, as were officials from non-member countries who had
    participated in CCRIF professional development activities and some CCRIF
    scholarship recipients. Out of the 100 invitees, 50 responded, constituting a complete
    sample of the countries, national agencies, and regional institutions that had been
    contacted – a good survey response rate.

75. Respondents generally expressed appreciation for the uniqueness and attractive
    pricing of the products that CCRIF was able to offer as a diversified risk pool, the
    importance of those products as a component of their broader disaster risk
    management strategies, and the rapidity of its payouts, all of which they saw as
    providing benefits and value for money. They commended CCRIF’s high level of
    information sharing and its flexibility and client-responsiveness. They welcomed its
    technical assistance program, emphasis on capacity building and professional
    development, and partnerships with regional organizations. They noted that CCRIF,
    through its products, services, and contacts, had contributed to an increased
    awareness among finance, economy and planning, disaster management, environment,
    and meteorological officials in the region of the importance of disaster risk
    management, a common understanding of the role that financial risk transfer can play
    in it, and greater interaction among them on these matters. They expressed pride in
    CCRIF as a Caribbean institution and as the first, and still only, multi-country, multi-
    peril disaster risk pool.

76. Accompanying these positive perceptions and assessments were a number of
    suggestions for how CCRIF could strengthen its role and operations. These included:

    Development and issuance of new products, particularly the excess rainfall
     product, but also products covering agriculture, tourism, and electrical utilities;



                                            28
      Increased in-depth technical communications with members’ officials to improve
       understanding of the elements of parametric insurance and how it compares with
       indemnity insurance, particularly how policies are triggered and payments are
       calculated;
      Increased use of television, radio, and social media to communicate with
       stakeholders;
      Development of a mechanism to take into account the cumulative impacts of two
       or three successive events not sufficient individually to trigger a policy; and
      Increased contact between CCRIF Board members and stakeholders.

77. The findings of the beneficiary survey played an important role in shaping CCRIF’s
    new Strategic Plan 2012-2015 and CCRIF is carrying forward work in response to
    beneficiaries’ suggestions.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

78. The risk to the development outcomes is negligible to low from a financial,
    institutional, and political perspective. First, as discussed elsewhere in this evaluation,
    CCRIF is financially sustainable. Drawing on its reinsurance and using no more than
    US$25 million of its own capital, which totaled about US$114 million as of May 31,
    2011,29 CCRIF had the capacity in 2011-2012 to pay claims associated with a series
    of disasters having a modeled probability of occurring only once in 1,401 years.30
    Drawing on its reinsurance and using the entirety of its capital, CCRIF could
    withstand an extraordinary series of natural disasters having a modeled probability of
    occurring only once in every 10,000 years, although it would need to be recapitalized
    to continue operations thereafter.

79. Institutional risks to CCRIF’s sustainability are also negligible to low. It has a well
    functioning governance structure, which the Board is further strengthening through
    implementation of a business continuity plan and additional measures to ensure on-
    going compliance with evolving regulatory requirements for captive insurance firms.
    CCRIF enjoys the support not only of its members, but also that of a variety of
    regional organizations and, in addition, has a global reputation for excellence and
    innovation. Its original 16 members have shown their recognition of CCRIF’s value,
    renewing their policies annually and gradually increasing the amount of their
    coverage so as to reduce further their financial vulnerability to hurricanes and
    earthquakes. MOUs with a number of regional organizations serve to anchor it within
    the framework of the region’s institutions. CCRIF is strengthened institutionally not


29
   May 31, 2011, is the end of the last financial year for which externally audited financial statements are
available. For its financial year ending May 31, 2012, CCRIF’s as yet unaudited financial statements show
retained earnings of US$94.6 million and total assets of US$118.4 million.
30
   For 2012-2013, the top of CCRIF’s combined US$145 million of risk retention and reinsurance provides
cover for a 1 in 1,125 year event.

                                                    29
     only by the desire of donors to seek opportunities for further collaboration but also by
     the continuing interest of the global disaster risk management community and
     reinsurance industry.

80. One political risk to the project’s outcomes – a risk which also has a financial
    dimension – is that the fiscal constraints of some members could cause them to take
    the difficult decision to pull out. This risk is also considered negligible to low. Haiti
    is likely to continue to receive donor support to cover its premium, as was anticipated
    at the time that Haiti joined CCRIF.31 For 2012-2013, the CDB signaled its intention
    to support Haiti’s premium payment with a grant. Some CCRIF members took
    advantage of CDB finance to help cover their premiums in 2010-2011 and, should it
    become necessary, such finance would also likely again be available from the CDB.
    Finally, CCRIF is estimated to need only eight members in order to have a
    sufficiently diversified risk portfolio.32 Thus, even if some members were to pull out,
    CCRIF would remain a viable risk pool.

81. The Board is keenly aware of this financial/political risk and, accordingly, has
    continuously worked to reduce it by seeking ways to enhance the Facility’s value to
    its members. Among such steps have been the lowering of the participation fee
    requirement, the successive reductions in the premium price totaling about 30 percent
    since the first year, the decision to provide a premium discount in years following
    zero-claim years, and the technical assistance program with its range of capacity
    building activities. CCRIF’s efforts to develop an excess rainfall product respond
    directly to members’ and others’ demands and the availability of this product is
    expected to strengthen further members’ perceptions of CCRIF’s value and, indeed,
    to pull in new members. Finally, members’ pride in CCRIF as a Caribbean
    institution is also likely to mitigate the risk that some might pull out.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory




31
   See Project Appraisal Document on Proposed Grant in the Amount of SDR6 Million (US$9 Million
Equivalent) to the Republic of Haiti for a Haiti Catastrophe Insurance Project; February 6, 2007; Report
No: 38540-HT. The CDB has agreed to pay Haiti’s premium for 2012-2013.
32
   Analysis at the time of appraisal of the catastrophe insurance projects for Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia,
and St. Vincent and the Grenadines indicated that, with US$40 million initial reserves, the Facility would
be able to reduce the insurance premiums of a pool of eight countries by more than 40 percent (on average)
compared to individual catastrophe insurance, and to grow its reserves by US$2.5 million year on average.?
Project Appraisal Document for Four Catastrophe Insurance Projects for the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States; Report No: 38539-LAC; February 6, 2007.

                                                    30
82. Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was highly satisfactory. Project design
    was particularly challenging and complex as CCRIF was to be the first multi-country,
    multi-peril pooled catastrophe risk insurance facility. With generous PHRD grants
    from the Government of Japan supplementing Bank budget and with the collaboration
    of JSIF and the OECS Secretariat, the Bank assembled and led an expert team. The
    team tapped the knowledge of a wide range of public sector institutions and private
    sector entities with broad experience in risk modeling, financial risk transfer, and
    disaster risk management. The team carried out detailed risk assessments and did
    highly sophisticated modeling of hurricane and earthquake risk in the Caribbean to
    develop the HLEM that would underpin the pricing of CCRIF’s policies and its
    financial sustainability. It also conducted extensive stakeholder consultations and
    provided in-depth briefings to Caribbean countries, potential donors, and others as
    design progressed to build potential members’ interest in participating in CCRIF and
    donors’ willingness to contribute to the trust fund to support it. The design of
    CCRIF’s policies was tailored to respond to the specific constraints that potential
    members faced in obtaining affordable catastrophe risk insurance and to provide the
    rapid financial payout that they needed following a natural disaster. The possibilities
    for domiciling CCRIF were carefully studied in order to identify from among several
    good options the one that would best balance the need for a strong regulatory
    environment that could command the respect of members, donors, and reinsurers with
    the flexibility in oversight that would be required to support development and roll-out
    of CCRIF’s innovative products. Sections 2.1 and 3.1 discuss these matters in greater
    detail.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

83. Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory. Supervision included the
    usual desk activities such as: (i) review and suggestions for improvements of terms
    of reference, requests for expressions of interest and proposals, and contracts with the
    Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and professional services providers to
    be financed by the MDTF; (ii) review of audited financial statements; (iii) advice and
    support to the Insurance Manager and Facility Supervisor on compliance with the
    Bank’s procurement and financial management policies; (iv) review and authorization
    of withdrawal applications; (v) review and comment on the Operations Manual and
    its periodic revisions; and (vi) review and comment on the minutes of the Board’s
    proceedings. Field supervision missions took place at regular intervals – three to four
    times a year.

84. In addition to the foregoing, the Bank carried out an in-depth supervision mission
    following each of the Facility’s first three years of operations. These missions
    conducted interviews with CCRIF’s regulator, member officials, representatives of
    institutions with which CCRIF was partnering, CCRIF’s reinsurers and investment
    manager and, of course, the Facility Supervisor, Insurance Manager, and members of
    the Board of Directors. The missions assessed developments with respect to CCRIF’s

                                            31
      operations and governance, budget, risk management and investment strategies,
      technical assistance, partnerships and stakeholder outreach, and R&D activities. The
      Bank published reports on these missions.33 While these were intended primarily for
      the Board of Directors and the professional service providers, they were also
      distributed to CCRIF’s members, MDTF donors, CCRIF’s partner institutions, World
      Bank Executive Directors representing CCRIF members, and other stakeholders.

85. Given the innovative nature of the project, the Bank provided proactive
    implementation support during supervision. The Bank participated actively, albeit
    formally as an observer, in nearly all of the meetings of CCRIF’s Board of Directors
    and its informal sessions to develop its business strategy, objectives, and performance
    measures. At the Board meetings and in the three published reports on its in-depth
    supervision missions following each of the Facility’s first three years of operations,,
    the Bank provided recommendations aimed at helping CCRIF to: (i) strengthen its
    governance structure, bring the appointment of Directors fully in line with the terms
    of its Trust Deed and Articles of Association, and enhance business continuity; (ii)
    improve the recording of, and follow-up to, Board decisions; (iii) clarify procurement
    practices, including with respect to matters such as retendering of contracts for
    professional services; (iii) clarify the roles of the professional service providers; (iv)
    improve donor relationships; (v) contain the operating budget; (vi) obtain independent
    actuarial review of CCRIF’s risk model; (vii) strengthen management of the R&D
    program; (viii) improve the affordability of its policies; (ix) enhance transparency,
    outreach, and stakeholder relations to mitigate non-financial risks; (x) increase the
    transparency of the technical assistance program; and (xi) bring greater specificity to
    partnership arrangements with other Caribbean institutions.

86. The Bank’s supervision added value to CCRIF’s operations. As detailed in the
    reports on CCRIF’s second and third years of operations, the Board adopted the
    majority of the Bank’s recommendations. The formal records of the Board’s
    deliberations and decisions also reflect CCRIF’s positive response to the Bank’s
    contributions through supervision.

87. Supervision could have been improved had the three reports on the Bank’s in-depth
    supervision missions been published and provided to CCRIF and to others within
    three months after the availability of CCRIF’s audited financial statements (normally
    available in August). This shortcoming is considered minor, given that the Bank
    discussed the findings of the reports and their recommendations with the Board and
    CCRIF’s key service providers well in advance of publication of the reports.




33
     See footnote no. 14, page 12.


                                             32
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

88. Based on ratings of highly satisfactory for quality at entry and satisfactory for
    supervision, the overall rating for Bank performance is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: N/A (CCRIF member governments themselves had no role in project
implementation, which was managed entirely by CCRIF itself).

(b) Implementing Agency’s Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

89. CCRIF’s performance as the implementing agency for this recipient-executed trust
    fund was highly satisfactory. The Board of Directors showed consistent energy,
    commitment, and creativity in getting CCRIF up and running, consolidating its
    operations, and establishing the Facility as a widely recognized and respected
    Caribbean institution. The Facility Supervisor, Insurance Manager, Communications
    Consultant, Reinsurance Broker, and principal Investment Manager showed similar
    dedication and enthusiasm, going beyond what might have been expected of even the
    most professional service providers. The excitement generated by CCRIF’s
    uniqueness and being able to contribute to its important mission no doubt played an
    important role in these behaviors.

90. Among CCRIF’s accomplishments, as detailed in Section 2.2, Implementation, the
    following stand out in particular:

    CCRIF successfully balanced considerations of capital adequacy and value to its
     members, achieving both objectives simultaneously. In doing, CCRIF showed
     sensitivity and creativity in responding to the needs of its members and other
     countries in the region by:
        o reducing the premium price, lowering the participation fee requirement,
             and deciding to provide premium discounts following zero-claims years;
        o advancing to Barbados, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines
             within days after Hurricane Tomas 50 percent of their expected payouts;
        o overcoming a range of data and methodological difficulties in order to
             develop and make available the excess rainfall product to help members
             reduce their financial vulnerability to this additional peril; and
        o establishing and implementing the technical assistance program to support
             members’ efforts to build capacity in disaster risk management more
             broadly.


                                          33
    The Board took a number of steps to strengthen CCRIF’s governance with respect
     to appointment of Directors, budget management, records of proceedings and
     follow-up, and mitigation of risks to business continuity.
    With an eye to good stewardship of donor resources and the capital it received
     from members in the form of their participation fees and annual premiums, the
     Board limited CCRIF’s annual operating expenditures to 5 percent of its premium
     income.
    CCRIF’s fiduciary performance – financial management and procurement – was
     without shortcomings. External audits of its financial statements were unqualified.
     Regulatory compliance reviews by CIMA were also positive.
    The Grant was fully disbursed in advance of the closing date, without the need for
     any extension thereof.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory (Based on Highly Satisfactory rating for Implementing
Agency’s performance).

6. Lessons Learned

91. Preparation, supervision, and implementation of the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk
    Insurance Project illustrate a number of important lessons:

    Consultations with a wide range of experts and stakeholders are important in
     developing and successfully launching an innovative development instrument.
     In the case of CCRIF, consultations were essential to building understanding of
     the proposed facility, the risk modeling that would underpin its products, the
     nature of parametric insurance, etc. They also served to assure the CARICOM
     Heads that the Bank was being responsive to their request. Without this effort at
     consultations, it is doubtful that CCRIF’s membership would have reached 16 at
     the outset.
    Donor support can be essential for an innovative and untested development
     instrument. The generous donor support for CCRIF to reimburse it for initial
     operating expenditures and pay claims within its risk retention greatly reduced the
     risks to its achieving financial sustainability. Without such donor support, an
     initial year in which claims exceeded the modeled AAL would have been a
     serious setback, as it might have required CCRIF to go back to its members to
     request recapitalization through an increase in their participation fees. It was
     possible to mobilize sufficient donor support because the economies of most
     CCRIF members are relatively small. Adequate donor grant resources to support
     a pilot initiative involving much larger economies would likely have been much
     more difficult to obtain.
    The private sector expertise and hands-on knowledge of relevant markets is
     vital to the success of a project that seeks to respond to a market failure. In
     the case of CCRIF, the Executive Chairman and the two Board members
     appointed just prior to the Facility’s launch had private sector experience in

                                          34
    banking, asset management, indemnity insurance, catastrophe insurance, and
    reinsurance – in the Caribbean as well as elsewhere. Their experience was a key
    component in decisions regarding matters such selection of service providers,
    policy conditions, pricing, and client relations.
   When public funds – e.g., capital contributions from donors and beneficiary
    governments, both ultimately provided by taxpayers – support an
    independently and commercially managed entity, it is important that those
    managing the entity have experience with stewardship of public resources. In
    CCRIF’s case, the two Directors who were appointed soon after the Facility’s
    launch had experience in senior positions in government and multilateral
    institutions, along with their expertise in finance, insurance, and banking. The
    Executive Chairman also had experience in a public sector agency. Their contacts
    with governments in the region and understanding of the regulatory and other
    requirements for accountability for public funds were an important complement to
    their colleagues’ private sector experience. As Directors have departed and new
    ones have been appointed, CCRIF has maintained this public/private sector
    balance, with a strong focus on governance and regulatory compliance.
   On-going communications with clients and other stakeholders are essential in
    piloting successfully an innovative development solution. To this end,
    specialized professional expertise in developing and carrying out multi-media
    communications strategies is required. Despite the extensive consultations that
    were carried out leading up to CCRIF’s launch, continuous efforts have been
    required to improve understanding of its mission, the nature of parametric
    products, and the range of its services. The progressive ramping up of CCRIF’s
    outreach to the public and specialized stakeholders has done much to solidify its
    standing as a Caribbean institution and understanding of its mission, products, and
    value. As was clear from the beneficiary survey, and as is recognized in CCRIF’s
    2012-2015 Strategic Plan, a high level of well-targeted communications will need
    to be maintained.
   A lean organizational structure can be very effective. CCRIF achieved
    considerable cost savings and avoided institutional rigidities by remaining a
    “virtual? organization without a physical office and by contracting externally for
    professional services rather than acquiring a roster of direct employees. This said,
    as time passes and Directors and service providers change, it is important to put in
    place, as CCRIF is doing, arrangements to ensure institutional memory and
    business continuity.
   In a highly innovative project, it is important for Bank supervision to give
    the implementing agency scope for creativity and flexibility, while still
    ensuring compliance with Bank operational policies. When the project
    implementation is in the hands of experienced and highly professional staff, too
    heavy a hand can result in poor use of available expertise, stifled creativity, and
    missed opportunities. The extent of CCRIF’s partnership arrangements, the scope
    of its technical assistance and professional development activities, which are
    valued by its members, the on-going refinement of CCRIF’s multi-peril loss
    estimation model, and its development of the excess rainfall product have much to
    do with the fact that the Bank did not impose a static view of the project but,

                                        35
       instead, created the space for CCRIF to respond to emerging needs and
       opportunities. And CCRIF’s dynamism in this regard has had much to do with
       consolidating its reputation as a valued Caribbean institution.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

a) Grantee/Implementing Agencies

92. The Bank appreciates the comments from the Board of Director and staff of CCRIF,
    agreeing with the assessment of the ICR, and is grateful for the information and
    suggestions that they provided to improve its depth and clarity.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

93. The Bank welcomes the comments from the CDB, which made a significant
    contribution to the MDTF to support CCRIF’s establishment and initial operations. It
    is gratified that the CDB concurs with the assessment of CCRIF’s on-going
    importance and relevance in helping raise awareness of and capacity for effective
    disaster risk management in the region. The Bank appreciates the CDB’s view that
    CCRIF has continually focused on the efficient provision of services demanded by its
    members, has accomplished much in its short history, and will continue to grow in its
    contributions to the region.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

94. The Bank gratefully acknowledges the comments from CIMH, which was the first
    regional organization with which CCRIF signed a MOU and which has been, and
    continues to be, an active partner in generating knowledge and strengthening
    institutional capacity for disaster risk assessment and management in the region.
    CIMH provided valuable suggestions for enriching the assessment of the ICR.




                                           36
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                           Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                                   millions)

             Total Baseline Cost                     30.92                 71.00                229.60
Physical Contingencies
                                                       0.00                 0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                      0.00                  0.00                  0.00
             Total Project Costs                     30.92                 71.00                229.62
Project Preparation Costs34                           1.80                  1.80                100.00
Bank Administrative Fee35                             0.63                  1.15                182.54
     Total Financing Required                        33.35                 73.95                221.74




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of           Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing          (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                              millions)   millions)
Trust Funds36                                                        1.80        1.80     100.00
Free-standing Single Purpose Trust
                                                                   31.55           72.14        228.65
Fund37




34
   Includes only PHRD grant for project preparation. Does not include Bank budget resources.
35
   The Bank’s fee for administering the MDTF was 2.0 percent of contributions.
36
   PHRD grant for project preparation.
37
   “Appraisal Estimate? = Donor contributions to the MDTF at the time of the IBTF dated March 2, 2007.
“Actual/Latest Estimate? = Total donor and IBRD contributions of US$67.43 plus interest income on
undisbursed MDTF balance of approximately US$4.7 million. The amount of the “Free-standing Single
Purpose Trust Fund? in (b) exceeds “Total Financing Required? in (a) due to deduction from the latter of
the Bank’s 2 percent fee for administering the MDTF.

                                                  37
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Establishment of CCRIF

    CCRIF’s certificate of incorporation in the Cayman Islands and the Memorandum
     and Articles of Association of the company were issued on February 27, 2007.
    CCRIF’s license as an insurer under the laws of the Cayman Islands was issued
     on May 23, 2007.

Component 2: CCRIF Operations

            Item                      US$                    Percent of Total
Risk Transfer (reinsurance)                 36,247,652            51.05
Payouts                                     32,179,468            45.32
Facility Supervision Fees                    1,587,297             2.24
Board fees/expenses                            541,803             0.76
Corporate Communications                       170,956             0.24
Audit                                          158,806             0.22
Insurance Manager Fees                         111,921             0.16

Total                                       70,997,902            100.00




                                       38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. Historically, most developing countries have relied on ex post sources of financing
   (e.g., budget reallocation, debt issuance, and donor aid) to defray relief, recovery, and
   reconstruction costs following a disaster. In the last decade, however, governments
   and the international community at large have demonstrated increased interest and
   effort to shift toward ex ante risk financing and insurance strategies to guarantee
   immediate access to liquidity following a disaster and to better manage budget
   volatility arising from disasters. In the Caribbean, Hurricane Ivan’s devastating
   impacts on the populations and economies of multiple CARICOM states in 2004
   catalyzed demand for ex ante budget protection against natural disasters.
Financial and Economic Impact of Natural Disasters in the Caribbean

2. CARICOM states are more exposed to natural disaster events than many other
   countries in the world; in terms of hazard risk, the frequency of hurricane and
   earthquake events is high, and in terms of financial risk, the impact on each country’s
   fiscal and macroeconomic stability is significant. The vulnerability of the region is
   heightened by the fact that most Caribbean countries’ economies suffer from a lack of
   diversification, depending mostly on tourism and commodity exports. These sectors
   suffer dramatically in the event of a disaster, thus exacerbating the short- and long-
   term economic impact. The countries themselves are also extremely small
   geographically, and natural disasters impact the full economic potential of the country
   as opposed to localized impacts that occur in larger countries.
3. The CARICOM states have relied on ex post financing mechanisms to fund their
   post-disaster needs. Given the fiscal and macroeconomic impact of disasters, these
   mechanisms are extremely costly. Furthermore, most CARICOM states have little to
   no fiscal space for ex post budget reallocations, as most are able to reallocate less than
   1 percent of their annual budgets. This situation often forces them to borrow from
   international capital markets at high interest rates following a disaster event, further
   increasing their overall recovery costs.
4. Fiscal Impacts
       a. Adverse impact on public finances: A country’s fiscal balance weakens
          following natural disasters as the domestic tax base shrinks and expenditure
          needs escalate. This deterioration often adds to public debt, which could affect
          macroeconomic performance beyond the short-term and result in higher
          inflation and lower investment potential. For example, Hurricane Ivan hit the
          small Caribbean island of Grenada in September 2004, causing an estimated
          200 percent of GDP in damages across the island. Faced with the
          overwhelming costs of the event, the state was forced to approach its creditors
          for a voluntary restructuring of the island’s public debts, extending its debt
          service payments by 20 years and adding significantly to its overall cost of
          funds.



                                             39
        b. Deterioration in the balance of payments: The current account balance
           weakens as natural disasters impair export capacity due to deterioration of
           infrastructure and transportation services, and studies have indicated that the
           impact can be as great as 10 percent of GDP. 38 On average, the adverse
           effects on the external current account balance last two to three years in the
           Caribbean.39 The median reduction in output caused by natural disasters in the
           Caribbean is approximately 2.2 percent, mostly reflecting damages to
           agricultural production. 40 Natural disasters also increase imports due to
           reconstruction needs and disruptions in domestic supplies. Foreign grants,
           remittances or reinsurance payments from abroad often mitigate the adverse
           impact, but are usually insufficient to offset the initial damage. While private
           capital inflows could also help mitigate the deterioration in the balance of
           payments, they are unlikely to offset it or to be immediately available in the
           Caribbean countries.

        c. Increase in fiscal deficit: The fiscal deterioration in the wake of natural
           disasters typically entails a marked increase in expenditures related to
           emergency assistance and reconstruction efforts coupled with relatively small
           reductions in government revenues and grants. In the Caribbean, higher
           capital spending is seen during the year in which the disaster occurs, followed
           by compressions in current expenditures afterwards. 41 Furthermore,
           productive public spending and broad investments in development activities
           are crowded out as a result of reduced fiscal space.

        d. Escalating cost of debt: A country’s fiscal flexibility is ultimately dependent
           on its initial fiscal position, its financing options, and its debt sustainability
           levels. Nearly all the Caribbean countries are highly indebted, and already
           face relatively high costs of debt, ranging from 6 to 8 percent for 10-year
           bonds.42 In the face of a natural disaster, sovereign bond spreads increase 1-2
           percent on average, thus raising the cost of borrowing for affected
           governments. The results of piece-wise sovereign spread analysis indicate that
           these price effects remain for roughly 6-9 months after a disaster. 43 In
           particular, the CARICOM states often lack adequate revenues and fiscal space
           to deal with the increased costs of debt, especially in terms of the debt service
           payments they are forced to make in the immediate future.


38
   Rasmussen, Tobias N., 2004, “Macroeconomic Implications of Natural Disasters in the Caribbean,?
Working Paper 04/224 (Washington, DC: The International Monetary Fund).
39
   Ibid.
40
   Benson, Charlotte, Michael, F. V., and Robertson, A.W., 2001, “Dominica: Natural Disasters and
Economic Development in a Small Island States,? Disaster Risk Management Working Paper Series, No.2
(Washington DC: The World Bank).
41
   Crowards, Tom, 2000, “Comparative Vulnerability to Natural Disasters in the Caribbean,? Staff Working
Paper No.1/00 (St. Michael, Barbados: Caribbean Development Bank).
42
   Bloomberg, 14-May-2012.
43
   Ozcan, Banu, 2005, “Market Convergence, Catastrophe Risk, and Sovereign Borrowing: An Empirical
Analysis for Emerging Market Countries,? DAI-A 66/12. (Medford, MA: Tufts University).

                                                  40
             e. Limited donor contributions: Underinvestment in protective risk mitigation
                measures is a common symptom across the Caribbean, as governments expect
                that others will provide support of a disaster occurs. However, concerns about
                this approach have become more pressing given the finite willingness of
                donors to provide financial support, coupled with the rising trend in the
                frequency and magnitude of natural disasters. Grants and concessional loans
                from multilateral institutions and bilateral donors designed to finance post-
                disaster mitigation and reconstruction costs are also often earmarked for
                specific projects and initiatives, as opposed to overall budget support.
5. Macroeconomic Impacts
             a. Declines in GDP: Within the context of the Caribbean countries, the impact of
                natural disasters is most significant on the agriculture, fishing, and tourism
                industries, both in terms of direct monetized losses of physical destruction and
                indirect losses associated with business interruption. By extension, natural
                disasters tend to make output more volatile than otherwise, resulting in
                immediate consequences for a country's GDP figures. Real GDP growth in the
                Caribbean slowed down on average about 3 percent in a disaster year during
                the period between 1970 and 1997, often followed by a sharp rebound in the
                following year and a moderate slump afterwards. 44
             b. Depreciation and inflation pressures: Due to the weak current account
                balance and investors' concerns about future losses of local companies, the
                exchange rate of the disaster-affected country will face depreciation pressures.
                Inflationary pressures will also build due to an excess of money holdings in
                the face of reduced incomes and possible concerns about currency
                depreciation, in addition to monetization of the increased budget deficits.
             c. Negative regional spillovers: Natural disasters could affect countries that have
                not been hit directly. Typically, spill-over effects of disasters are most
                pronounced in terms of regional input-output networks due to damages
                suffered near shared ports and disruptions in cross-border supply chains.
                Financial linkages are also evident, as there is often a rise in sovereign credit
                spreads and local banks and insurance companies are exposed to cross-border
                fluctuations.
6. An analysis of the overall fiscal and macroeconomic impacts of past natural disasters
   suggests that, on average:
             a. Impacts on GDP were significant, particularly in the second and third years
                after a disaster strikes. This is presumably the case because the differential




44
     Ibid.


                                                 41
                delays in the year of the disaster and the year immediately following the
                disaster were evened out.
             b. The negative impacts on the trade balance were significant, primarily due to
                the initial increase and subsequent decrease in imports.
             c. An initial peak in government capital expenditure growth was followed by
                low growth rates, while government current expenditure showed a marked
                drop in growth two years after the disaster.


                         Table 1: Average impact of natural disasters on
                   fiscal and macroeconomic variables in CARICOM states45

                                                                     Govt.     Govt.
                                                                                        External
                              GDP     Export    Import     Trade    current   capital
        Year     Inflation                                                               Debt
                             Growth   Growth    Growth      Bal.      exp.     exp.
                                                                                        Growth
                                                                    growth    growth
       -3,-2,
                    8.1       5.4       15.3        11.0   -46.0      5.2      9.5       17.6
       -1
       0            9.0       2.3       5.0         19.5   -65.5      7.2      26.2      20.6
       1            7.6       5.7       15.0        13.0   -72.7      7.6       1.0      13.5
       2            6.5       1.9       11.9         1.5   -70.7      0.1      0.7       13.5
       3            7.9       3.0       16.2         1.1   -56.5      5.4      5.6       16.2

The Approach for the Caribbean: Catastrophe Coverage Using Risk Pooling

7. In this context, the CARICOM governments, the World Bank, and other development
   and donor partners decided to develop a disaster risk financing mechanism that would
   guarantee an immediate injection of liquidity for the government following a major
   disaster. The mechanism had to meet world-class standards of reliability,
   transparency, and affordability. The most cost-efficient design would combine risk
   retention for low risk layers (prohibitively costly to transfer to the private sector) and
   risk transfer for high risk layers. In order to accomplish this, the mechanism had to
   enable maintenance of financial reserves in severely fiscally constrained
   environments and open access to international reinsurance markets for countries for
   which coverage was not available.
8. The catastrophe risk vehicle, CCRIF, adopting a risk pooling approach, addresses
   these constraints and provides numerous financial benefits to the CARICOM states.
   Risk pooling reduces the cost of capital for coverage through diversification and
   portfolio structuring. Because each country’s exposure is unique, structuring a
   diversified portfolio of countries and perils, hurricane and earthquake reduces the cost




45
     Ibid.

                                               42
     of capital,46 reserves, and insurance. In addition, due to economies of scale (i.e., fixed
     costs are spread across participating countries), risk pooling reduces operating costs
     to participating members.
9. Covering diverse risks implies that payments will trigger with more regularity and
   less uncertainty with regards to the timing and amount of capital that needs to be
   available for payouts. Therefore, less capital is required per country to be held in a
   risk reserve or paid as part of an insurance premium in order to ensure solvency for an
   event of a specified return period. Importantly, the underlying risk of each country is
   unchanged, so pricing of coverage with risk pooling does not distort price signals to
   participants about the cost of their exposure to natural disasters.47 Figure 1 illustrates
   these effects.
                 Figure 1: Catastrophe Coverage Pricing and Risk Pooling




         Source: World Bank Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program (2011).

10. For the abovementioned reasons, risk pooling through CCRIF results in a lower
    probable maximum loss (PML) 48 compared to the sum of the PMLs for all
    participating countries. This is the case because multiple catastrophic events are
    highly unlikely to affect multiple states in a given year. For example, the likelihood of
    a severe hurricane impacting one country may be 5 percent every year, but the
    likelihood of three severe hurricanes impacting three different countries is likely
    much lower.



46
   Cost of capital is defined as the amount of capital required to be accessible to ensure solvency in the case
of catastrophe.
47
   Furthermore, the parametric nature (relying on an event’s parameters as a proxy for actual losses) of
CCRIF insurance assures that the AEL is an objective measure of each country’s exposure to perils.
48
   Probable maximum loss is defined as the largest likely loss from a specific catastrophic event for a given
return period. 

                                                     43
11. Figure 2 illustrates the PML for each country’s hurricane and earthquake policies
    under CCRIF versus the PML for the pooled Facility from a 1-in-200 year event for
    hurricane and earthquake, respectively. Due to limitations in data availability, the
    aggregate loss for the individual country depends on the coverage limit and
    exhaustion point under its CCRIF policy (which varies across countries).49 As is
    clear below, the pooled loss for a 1-in-200 year event to the CCRIF portfolio for
    either hurricane or earthquake results in a much lower PML than the aggregate
    possible losses across countries for the risk transferred to CCRIF for events of
    different (primarily shorter) return periods.
            Figure 2: Benefits of Risk Pooling - PMLs under CCRIF policies




Source: World Bank Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program, with data from CCRIF (2012).

12. In addition to the benefits of risk pooling and lower operating costs, there are many
    additional financial benefits of the CCRIF approach that are difficult to quantify in
    this assessment but are anecdotally suggested. Such benefits could include reduction
    in disaster losses due to improved land-use planning informed by catastrophe risk


49
  Precise coverage levels vary across policies, thus the amount and layer of risk being contributed varies
across countries. The aggregate columns are the sum of all of the coverage limits for each peril in the
CCRIF portfolio. In most cases, the maximum protection for a country is less than a 1-in-200 year loss,
while some countries have coverage that is greater protection than 1-in-200 year. The pooled loss for a 1-
in-200 year event to the CCRIF portfolio for both hurricane and earthquake, however, results in a much
lower PML than the aggregate possible losses across countries for events of different (primarily shorter)
return periods.

                                                   44
   modeling, improved decision-making linked to capacity building services provided by
   the Facility, etc.

Financial analysis of catastrophe coverage for CARICOM states through CCRIF

13. The financial benefits of participation in CCRIF can be assessed through a
    comparison in the long-term average price of coverage for CARICOM governments
    with CCRIF compared to (i) the case where the country would have to individually go
    to the reinsurance market to buy the same coverage and (ii) the case where the
    country would self-retain the same amount of catastrophic risks because insurance
    would not be available on the market. In addition, these results can be compared to
    those estimated at the beginning of the CCRIF project. Finally, the role of donor
    capitalization of the CCRIF in reducing insurance costs to participating countries and
    increasing its financial resilience in high-risk layers can be assessed.
14. This analysis uses CCRIF’s Dynamic Financial Analysis (DFA) model, a
    sophisticated actuarial model that computes insurance pricing and survivability
    metrics using different input portfolios, reinsurance pricing models, and starting
    capitalizations for the Facility, among many other variables. The policy schedule used
    for this analysis is that selected by participating countries for the policy period
    2012/13. Coverage choices vary across countries. Attachment and exhaustion points
    for hurricane coverage range from 15 to 25 years and from 80 to 250 years,
    respectively; and for earthquakes, from 20 to 50 and from 70 to 250 years,
    respectively. The amount of risk ceded, or ceding percentage, also ranges from less
    than 5 percent to greater than 85 percent for hurricane and less than 10 percent to
    greater than 90 percent for earthquake. Three countries do not purchase earthquake
    insurance. The differences in coverage choices impact the cost of coverage for the
    country.
15. The price of coverage through CCRIF is estimated as the stable long-term premium to
    annual average loss (AAL) ratio using the CCRIF June 1, 2012, forecasted financial
    position (commonly referred to as the multiple). This pricing is captured as the
    assessed long-term CCRIF multiple for the 2012/13 policy schedule selected by
    participants for hurricane and earthquake. For confidentiality reasons, the long-term
    average pricing multiple for CCRIF cannot be disclosed; it is compared to the
    alternatives, however, by expressing the percentage of cost-savings from using
    CCRIF versus the alternatives (Table 2).
16. The individual country costs of transfer of the same risk directly to the international
    market are estimated by using the reinsurance pricing algorithm that is used to
    estimate CCRIF’s reinsurance costs. This then assumes that individual countries
    would get the same reinsurance pricing as CCRIF does, which likely leads to a
    significant underestimation of those costs to the country (because of economies of
    scale and other factors) and therefore an underestimation of likely savings. CCRIF
    pricing is compared against individual country direct reinsurance market coverage in
    Savings vs Market (Column A) in Table 2 below.


                                            45
17. The cost of self-retention if the country had to retain this risk through its own reserves
    (because insurance markets were not available or countries viewed coverage as too
    costly) through reserves is estimated as the annual average loss plus the opportunity
    cost of reserves for the same risk currently covered by the CCRIF. The opportunity
    cost of reserves is equal to the amount of reserves necessary to provide a payout equal
    to the coverage limit at the exhaustion point of a country’s CCRIF coverage,
    multiplied by the marginal opportunity cost of capital. In the spring of 2012, the
    average marginal opportunity cost of capital for CCRIF countries is estimated at 7.5
    percent. It is noted that at the time of CCRIF project preparation, the marginal
    opportunity cost of capital was set at 12 percent – thus, for insurance coverage to
    continue to be more cost-effective in the current macroeconomic environment, it must
    remain less expensive compared to this lower opportunity cost. CCRIF pricing is
    compared against self-retention for this same risk in Savings vs Self-retention
    (Column B) in Table 2 below.
              Table 2: Estimated CCRIF Long-term Pricing Comparisons50

                                                  Savings vs            Savings vs Self-
                         Country                   Market                  retention
                                                      (A)                     (B)
                                               Hurricane
                       Anguilla                     55.59%                   63.39%
                  Antigua & Barbuda                 56.24%                   65.39%
                       Bahamas                      54.61%                   60.03%
                       Barbados                     56.29%                   65.66%
                        Belize                      57.86%                   70.81%
                       Bermuda                      57.43%                   69.44%
                   Cayman Islands                   57.35%                   69.44%
                       Dominica                     58.89%                   75.01%
                       Grenada                      58.77%                   74.03%
                         Haiti                      53.85%                   57.34%
                       Jamaica                      57.01%                   68.06%
                   St Kitts & Nevis                 55.80%                   70.47%
                      Saint Lucia                   57.68%                   63.87%
                   St Vincent & the
                                                      56.20%                 65.32%
                      Grenadines



50
   For CCRIF pricing and for individual pricing, premium multiples are computed by finding the long-
term average multiple for each country if the multiple for all countries is set at the CCRIF multiple of the
country’s AALfor the first year (in this case 2012/13) and thereafter allowed to float in such a way that
countries are charged external reinsurance costs in proportion to their AAL, CCRIF risk retention costs as
cost of capital in proportion to country coverage limit, and CCRIF overhead in proportion to AAL. Using
the DFA model, this analysis is conducted over many years so that an average multiple can be computed
for each country. This average multiple is used for the comparisons in Table 2.


                                                    46
              Trinidad & Tobago                57.49%                 69.83%
             Turks & Caicos Islands            55.01%                 61.39%
                                         Earthquake
                    Anguilla                   61.87%                 83.87%
              Antigua & Barbuda                60.80%                 80.44%
                    Bahamas                      n/a                    n/a
                    Barbados                   61.02%                 81.17%
                     Belize                    60.08%                 78.17%
                    Bermuda                      n/a                    n/a
                Cayman Islands                 58.52%                 73.03%
                    Dominica                  59.11%                  75.06%
                    Grenada                    60.46%                 79.46%
                      Haiti                    54.07%                 57.95%
                    Jamaica                    57.86%                 70.85%
                St Kitts & Nevis               57.44%                 84.84%
                   Saint Lucia                 62.13%                 69.41%
                St Vincent & the
                                                 60.60%               79.85%
                   Grenadines
              Trinidad & Tobago                  55.23%               61.87%
             Turks & Caicos Islands                n/a                  n/a
           Source: World Bank Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program, with data
           from CCRIF (2012).

18. The substantial long-term cost-savings afforded to CARICOM states by purchasing
    catastrophe coverage through CCRIF is evident in Table 2. Compared to the cost of
    an individual country going directly to the reinsurance market, CCRIF pricing for
    hurricane ranges from about 59 to 54 percent less expensive. For earthquake, this
    range is from about 62 to 54 percent less expensive. Two caveats are reiterated here:
    (i) each country chooses a different policy schedule and pricing is affected by the
    parameters of the coverage; and (ii) pricing for individual coverage direct from the
    market uses the same reinsurance pricing algorithm as the CCRIF, so the resulting
    estimates are likely underestimating the true cost of this cover. While the additional
    savings from approaching the market through CCRIF are masked by the analysis, it
    does convey the primary drivers of the premium reduction, mainly risk pooling but
    also the reserves of the Facility.
19. Furthermore, the cost-savings of CCRIF coverage versus the non-market-based
    scenario of self-retention are even greater, as illustrated by Column B in Table 2.
    Compared to the cost for an individual country ensuring the availability of the same
    amount of cover as is provided by its CCRIF policy, CCRIF cover for hurricane
    ranges from about 75 to 57 percent less expensive. For earthquake, this range is from
    about 85 percent to 58 percent less expensive.
20. Long-term average savings estimated with CCRIF’s current parameters have also
    outperformed the original estimates of the cost savings that it would provide almost
    invariably across scenarios (Table 3). Impressively, this is true for the estimated
    savings of CCRIF coverage against self-retention across countries for earthquakes
                                               47
   and for many countries for hurricane even when the estimated marginal opportunity
   cost of capital used at the time of appraisal was 12 percent and in the current
   estimation is only 7.5 percent (making self-retention a less expensive option in the
   current macroeconomic environment).
                     Table 3: Original Estimates of CCRIF Savings
                       and Current Estimated Achieved Savings

                                        Pre-implementation          Current (actual)
         Coverage comparison
                                         estimation range           estimation range
                                        Hurricane
    CCRIF savings vs Market                   48-56%                     54-59%
    CCRIF savings vs Self-
                                               65-71%                    57-75%
    retention
                                        Earthquake
    CCRIF savings vs Market                   42-47%                     54-62%
    CCRIF savings vs Self-
                                               49-53%                    58-85%
    retention
   Source: Pre-implementation estimates from World Bank (2007). Achieved estimates by World
   Bank Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program, with data from CCRIF (2012).

The Role of Donor Capital

21. At the outset, a multi-donor trust fund (MDTF) was created to support CCRIF’s
    establishment and initial operations. Donors’ contributions totaled about US$67.4
    million; with net interest income this amount was brought to about US$71.0 million.
    These resources were not used for a direct investment in CCRIF, but rather to
    reimburse CCRIF for its major operating expenditures, including risk transfer costs,
    and for claims paid within its risk retention during its start-up phase. By defraying
    these costs, the MDTF enabled CCRIF to conserve the members’ participation
    deposits and the bulk of its premium income. In this way, the donors indirectly
    helped CCRIF to build its risk bearing capacity more quickly than it could otherwise
    have done to a level sufficient to assure its financial sustainability as an independent
    entity over the long-term. A strong capital base also allows CCRIF to retain more of
    the risk through a pooled reserve while transferring to the reinsurance market the
    higher-capacity layers which it has insufficient capital to retain, but which cost less to
    reinsure than the lower layers of risk. Over time, this strategy tends to reduce the
    Facility’s expenditures on reinsurance, increase the financial security of the Facility,
    and decrease the premium required to be charged to participants.
22. The indirect impact of the donors’ contributions on CCRIF’s ability to grow its
    capital and financial sustainability can be analyzed by reducing the CCRIF retention
    to the amount estimated for what CCRIF would have been able to retain without
    support from donors and then comparing the performance metrics for these two
    scenarios. In this analysis, the 2012 retention is reduced by 60 percent, and this 60
    percent worth of what would have been retained is spread across the higher risk layers

                                             48
     transferred to the international reinsurance market. As with the other analyses, under
     this scenario, the starting point, Year 1, is 2012. In years 2 and 3, CCRIF is assumed
     to have been able to increase its retention by 25 percent and 20 percent, respectively,
     per year, and then stabilize. These assumptions are based on best estimates provided
     by catastrophe risk modeling experts of the Facility.
23. Key survivability metrics for this analysis are provided in Table 4. Evidently, the
    Facility performs better across all metrics with the contribution of donor capital. The
    year-end capital of the Facility and its growth are both improved over time with the
    donors’ contributions. Also noteworthy is the role of donor capital in the survivability
    of the Facility. With the contribution of donor capital, the minimum survivability
    level experienced by the Facility over ten years remains at a 10,000 year event. This
    remains well above the minimum solvency requirements (1-in-200 year event return
    period) set in the European Union’s Solvency II Directive. 51 If donor capital is
    removed, however, then the minimum survivability of the Facility over ten years dips
    to a 1-in-175 event, falling below the minimum requirements set by the “best practice?
    standard.
         Table 4: CCRIF survivability metrics with and without donor capital

                                         With Donor                   No Donor
                 Time period
                                        Contributions                Contributions
                                          Year-end capital
               5 years                   116,717,361                   49,420,994
               10 years                  126,720,721                   56,739,203
                                         Retained earnings
               5 years                    11,611,441                    9,315,074
               10 years                   21,614,801                   16,633,283
                                           Sustainability
               5 years                     100.00%                       99.98%
               10 years                    100.00%                       99.43%
                                            Survivability
               10 year average              10,000                        4,260
               Min over 10yrs               10,000                         175
              Source: CCRIF (2012).




51
  Solvency II is an EU Directive that harmonizes insurance regulation across Europe and sets strict risk
management standards – some of the strictest in the world – that are expected to set the standard of best
practice for insurance companies operating in international markets. Solvency II is anticipated to come into
effect in 2014.

                                                    49
Conclusion

24. This financial analysis has illustrated that CARICOM states can significantly increase
    their financial resilience to catastrophes through ex ante disaster risk financing and
    insurance. The analysis has demonstrated that the CCRIF approach has proved the
    most cost-effective option due to risk diversification, portfolio structuring and
    economies of scale in operating costs. The Facility also provides numerous other
    benefits, including timely payouts in the case of a triggering event, which are difficult
    to quantify in this analysis. This financial analysis has proven, however, that even
    without these intangible savings and despite the reductions in the expense of
    maintaining reserves since the original analysis, 52 CCRIF coverage provides
    substantial savings over individual countries directly approaching the reinsurance
    market or self-insuring the same risk transferred through their CCRIF policies.
    Finally, it has demonstrated that the MDTF set up to support the Facility has
    increased all essential survivability metrics.




52
  The marginal opportunity cost of capital for the region has decreased from 12 percent to 7.5 percent
between 2007 and 2012 primarily due to macroeconomic conditions.

                                                 50
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                        Title               Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Francis Ghesquiere        Senior Urban Specialist          LCSUW
Olivier Mahul             Senior Insurance Specialist      FPDSN
                                                           LEGOP/
Lisa Lui                    Senior Counsel
                                                           LEGLA
Atsuko Okubo                Senior Counsel                 LEGCF
Xiomara Morel               Senior Finance Officer         LOAG1
Marc Forni                  Consultant                     LCSUW
Ross Gartley                Consultant                     LCSUW
Maricarmen Esquivel         Consultant                     LCSUW
Ana Daza                    Language Program Assistant     LCSUW

Supervision/ICR
Carlos Rufino Costa Posada Consultant                      LCSUW
Todd W. Crawford           Consultant                      LCSUW
Maricarmen Esquivel        Consultant                      LCSUW
                           Senior Disaster Risk
Marc S. Forni                                              SASDU
                           Management Specialist
                           Disaster Risk Management
Ross Alexander Gartley                                     LCSUW
                           Specialist
                           Senior Financial Management
M. Mozammal Hoque                                          LCSFM
                           Specialist
                           Senior Financial Management
Svetlana V. Klimenko                                       LCSFM
                           Specialist
Patricia E. Macgowan       Consultant                      LCSPT
Olivier Mahul              Program Coordinator             FCMNB
Andrew Mitchell            Consultant                      LCSUW
Ulrich Cedric Myboto       Consultant                      LCSUW
Atsuko Okubo               Senior Counsel                  LEGCF
Edith Ruguru Mwenda        Senior Counsel                  LEGAF
Jonathan Palin             Consultant                      LCSUW
Rolande Simone Pryce       Senior Country Officer          LCC3C
Yingwei Wu                 Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT
Ana Daza                   Language Program Assistant      LCSUW




                                       51
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)53
Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                                 Total:                   0.0                               0.00
Supervision/ICR
                                 Total:                   6.28                             76.10




53
  Staff weeks and USD thousands are for FY 2012 only. In previous years, the costs of preparation and
supervision were charged to: (i) OECS Catastrophe Insurance Project (P094539: and (ii) Haiti Catastrophe
Insurance Project (P104690). These two projects provided IDA grants to Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, and Haiti to cover their CCRIF participation fees and all or a portion of their
annual premiums for the first three years of membership. As these projects are integrally related to the
CCRIF project (P108058), it is not possible to assign a specific portion of the costs to any one of the three.


                                                     52
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Please refer to the Final Report on the Beneficiary Survey, available on the CCRIF
website at:

http://www.ccrif.org/publications/ccrif-stakeholder-analysis




                                           53
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   54
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   55
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments from Caribbean Development Bank

From:          Faye Hardy <barnesf@caribank.org>
To:            "tcrawford@worldbank.org" <tcrawford@worldbank.org>
Date:          06/13/2012 09:06 PM
Subject:       RE: Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility -- World Bank
               Implementation Completion and Results Report

Dear Todd,

Thanks for the opportunity to comment on the draft ICR. It provides a comprehensive
statement on the problems that occasioned the need for CCRIF, and the entity that grew
to fulfill those needs. It is highly encouraging to note that the World Bank’s expectations
at the inception of the project were in many ways surpassed, and that acknowledgement
was made of the growth of CCRIF as a regional entity and an integral and valuable
element in the development network of the Caribbean region. The recognition of
CCRIF’s qualities of strong governance and internal controls, of dynamism and
responsiveness to members’ needs were also pleasing to note.

CDB considers CCRIF’s role to be vital in the region in terms of raising awareness of
disaster risk management, increasing opportunities for collaboration among
complementary regional institutions and governments in this area, and providing risk
management solutions of an international standard within the region. Natural disasters
have the potential to be highly disruptive to the development mandate of the Caribbean
region with which CDB, among others, has been entrusted, and CCRIF’s interventions
help to contain the extent of that disruption in the immediate aftermath of those events.
CCRIF’s technical assistance grants also provide extremely useful opportunities for
strengthening the capacity in the region. CDB will continue to support CCRIF’s efforts
by assisting members with financial and other resources, where feasible to do so.

CCRIF’s focus has continually been on the efficient provision of the services requested
or required by its members. It has, in its short history, accomplished much, and its
continued introspection and quest for improvement in processes and products should
ensure that it continues on a path of growth and relevance to the disaster risk
management strategy for the region.

I noted two edits required:
        1)              on page vi, last paragraph: an unfinished sentence needs
        clarification/completion - “ …stabiility to CCRIF's until becoming self-
        sustainable?
        2)     page 2, the estimated loss on the first line of the table is shown as “26,5000?.
        You may need to move the comma.

With best regards,
Faye
                                             56
From:          tcrawford@worldbank.org [mailto:tcrawford@worldbank.org]
Sent:          Tuesday, May 29, 2012 3:40 PM
To:            Faye Hardy
Subject:       Fw: Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility -- World Bank
               Implementation Completion and Results Report

Dear Faye,

The World Bank prepares an Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) for
each project that it supports once the financing for that project has been completed. The
multi-donor trust fund which was created in 2007 in order to establish the Caribbean
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility and support its initial operations has been fully
disbursed and CCRIF is now operating without donor support. As the administrator of
the multi-donor trust fund and a contributor to it, the Bank has now prepared an ICR for
the project. The ICR reviews the preparation of the project and developments during its
implementation. It assesses the Bank's performance during project preparation and its
implementation and also the performance of the executing agency -- in this case, CCRIF -
- during project implementation. The ICR documents the results achieved and how those
compare with the expected results. It also aims to synthesize the knowledge gained from
the project and the lessons that can be learned from its design and implementation with a
view to benefiting similar projects in the future.

The views of stakeholders greatly enrich an ICR. The Caribbean Development Bank was
a generous contributor to the multi-donor trust fund and, as such, has played a vital role
in helping to establish CCRIF as a self-sustaining organization. In addition, the CDB has
an important role in CCRIF's governance structure, as it nominates two Directors to
CCRIF's Board of Directors. Thus, the CDB's input to the ICR will be valuable. Please
feel free to comment candidly on any aspect of the attached ICR. We would particularly
appreciate your views on CCRIF's relevance to sustainable development in the region and
the value that it has added to the Caribbean countries' disaster risk management strategies.

Could I ask you kindly to reply by June 12?

Once again, let me say how much we will appreciate your perspective.

Todd

(See attached file: CCRIF ICR - 120529.pdf)


Todd Crawford
Operations Advisor
Sustainable Development Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel: 202-458-0112
                                            57
Comments from Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology

From:           dfarrell@cimh.edu.bb
To:             tcrawford@worldbank.org
Date:           06/12/2012 10:31 PM
Subject:        Re: Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility -- World Bank
                Implementation Completion and Results Report

Dear Mr. Crawford

Thanks for not complaining about the lateness of response. The following are my
comments on the document:

1. There are a number of typos and stylistic changes that could be made to improve some
aspects of the document. I assume most of these will be fixed before the document
becomes final.

2. You frequently make reference to "national meteorological institutes" in the document.
Such entities don't exist. I believe you are referring to "National Meteorological and
Hydrological Services (NMHSs)". Please note that the CIMH is not a NMHS. It is an
Institution of CARICOM. There are a number of such designated institutions.

3. You refer to CCRIF's interactions with Institutions of the CARICOM such as CIMH,
CCCCC and OECS among others but you never provide examples of these interactions
and how they shaped important products and services delivered to the region. I believe
that providing such examples will emphasize the value and importance of such
partnerships and may encourage further collaborations and cooperation. I don't recall
seeing the number of MoU's CCRIF has with regional institutions. Again quantifying this
number is important. On page 14, paragraph 31, the reference to meteorological institutes
may be CIMH.

4. On page 8, paragraph 20, you note that the CCRIF benefited from the experiences of
the CIMH. Can this be confirmed? It is not clear to me that CIMH was involved in the
design phase of the project to establish CCRIF. I am aware that many NMHSs in the
Caribbean region were not aware of the CCRIF and its wind product until after the
product was established.

5. On page 20, paragraph 50 states that countries " ... were able to mount their initial high
priority recovery efforts more quickly that would have been possible without the
payouts." Can this actually be verified given the first and second sentences of paragraph
51?

I hope you find these comments fair and useful.

David Farrell
----- ----- -----

                                             58
From:           Todd W. Crawford/Person/World Bank
To:             dfarrell@cimh.edu.bb
Date:           05/29/2012 03:02 PM
Subject:        Fw: Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility -- World Bank
                Implementation Completion and Results Report
                458-0112 LCSHE

Dear Dr. Farrell,

The World Bank prepares an Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) for
each project that it supports once the financing for that project has been completed. The
multi-donor trust fund which was created in 2007 in order to establish the Caribbean
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility and support its initial operations has been fully
disbursed and CCRIF is now operating without donor support. As the administrator of
the multi-donor trust fund and a contributor to it, the Bank has now prepared an ICR for
the project. The ICR reviews the preparation of the project and developments during its
implementation. It assesses the Bank's performance during project preparation and its
implementation and also the performance of the executing agency -- in this case, CCRIF -
- during project implementation. The ICR documents the results achieved and how those
compare with the expected results. It also aims to synthesize the knowledge gained from
the project and the lessons that can be learned from its design and implementation with a
view to benefiting similar projects in the future.

The views of stakeholders greatly enrich an ICR. As one of premier Caribbean
institutions with which CCRIF has a collaborative relationship, the views of the
Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology will be especially valuable. To that
end, I would like to share with you for your review the ICR as it currently stands. Please
feel free to comment candidly on any aspect. We would particularly appreciate your
views on CCRIF's relevance to sustainable development in the region and the value that it
can bring to the work of CIMH in helping countries in the region to strengthen their
disaster risk management capacity.

Could I ask you kindly to reply by June 12?

Once again, let me say how much we will appreciate your perspective.

Best regards,

Todd Crawford



Operations Advisor
Sustainable Development Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433 - Tel: 202-458-0112

                                           59
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

    “A Review of CCRIF’s Operation After Its First Season?; World Bank, December
     1, 2008.

    “A Review of CCRIF’s Operation After Its Second Season?; World Bank, April
     2010.

    “Reducing Financial Vulnerability to Natural Disasters in the Caribbean: A
     Review of CCRIF’s Operation After Its Third Season?; World Bank, April 2011.




                                        60
                                                                                                                                                                  Bermuda (U.K.)
                                                                          UNITED STATES                                                                           (same scale as main map)


                                                                           OF AMERICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CARIBBEAN CATASTROPHE RISK
                      G      u       l    f           o       f                                                      THE BAHAMAS
                       M         e       x i      c       o                                                                                                                                                                     INSURANCE FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                   Turks and Caicos (U.K.)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A T L A N T I C                   O C E A N

                                                                                        CUBA                                                                                                                  U.S. Virgin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    British Virgin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Islands (U.K.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Islands
        MEXICO                                                                                                                                                                                        Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                (U.S.)                                   Anguilla (U.K.)

                                                                                    Cayman Is. (U.K.)                               HAITI          DOMINICAN                                        Rico (U.S.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     St.-Martin (Fr.)/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     St. Maarten (Neth.)
                                                                                                                                                   REPUBLIC                                                                                          St.-Barthélemy (Fr.)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Saba (Neth.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                           St. Eustasius (Neth.)                      Montserrat (U.K.)

              BELIZE                                                                                      JAMAICA                                                                                                      ST. KITTS                                Guadeloupe (Fr.)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND NEVIS                                   DOMINICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Martinique (Fr.)


MALA                                                                                                             C a r i b b e a n           S e a                                                                               ST. LUCIA
                        HONDURAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BARBADOS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST. VINCENT AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THE GRENADINES
       EL SALV.                           NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                            Aruba
                                                                                                                                                           (Neth.)
                                                                                                                                                                             Curaçao
                                                                                                                                                                             (Neth.)            Bonaire                                                          GRENADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                (Neth.)
                                              L. Managua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TRINIDAD
                                                          L. Nicaragua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND TOBAGO

                                                                                  Panama
                                                                  COSTA             Canal

                                                                   RICA                                 PANAMA                                                                                               R. B. DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            VENEZUELA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FRENCH GUIANA (Fr.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUYANA
                                         P A C I F I C                     O C E A N                                                COLOMBIA                                                                                                                                                        SURINAME

                                                                                                                    0   100     200    300   400     500 Kilometers
       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BRAZIL
       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                             0         100      200          300              400                     500 Miles                                                                                                     IBRD 39282
       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAY 2012
