Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3750-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$170 MILLION
TO
FINANCIERA ELECTRICA NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
March 8, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1983                  Exchange Rate Effective Feb. 29, 1984
US$1  = Col$78.861                              US$1  = Col$92.53
Col$1 = US$ 0.0127                               Col$1 = US$0.01081
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg)          = 1.100 short tons (sh. tons)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)                = 1,000 watt hours
. megawatt (MW)                      = 1,000 kilowatts (103 kW = 106 W)
1 gigawatt (GW)                      = 1,000 MW (103 kW = 106 kW)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)                = 1,000,000 kWh (106 W)
paid quarterly in advance          = p.q.a,.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BR             =   Banco de la Republica (Central Bank)
CARBOCOL       =   Carbones de Colombia
CEV            =   Electricity Certificates
CHEC           =   Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas Limitada
CHIDRAL        =   Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicaya Limitada
CONPES         =   National Economic and Social Policy Council
CORELCA         =   Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC                 Corpor-acion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca
DNP             =   National Planning Department
ECOPETROL      =   Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos
EEEB            =   Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
jEMCALI        =   Empresas Municipales de Cali
ENE             =   National Energy Study
EPM                 Empresas Publicas de Medellin
FEN            =   Financiera Electrica Nacional (National Electricity
Deve:Lopment Bank)
FRG             =   Federal Republic of Germany
GDP            =   Gross I)omestic Product
ICEL           =   Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
]:DB           =   Inter-lmerican Development Bank
ISA            =   Interconexion Electrica S.A.
JNT            =   National Tariff Board
OAS            =   Organization of American States
OED            =   Operations and Evaluation Department (IBRD)
UNDP           =   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
POWE:R DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Financiera Electrica Nacional (FEN)
Guarantor:   Republic of Colombia
Amount:      US$170 million equjivalent (including front-end fee)
Terms:       Repayment in seventeen years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate and other charges. Accord-
ing to a fixed amortization schedule based on the expected
aggregate of the amortization schedules of the individual sub-
loans to be made.
Project      The project aims at assisting Colombia during 1984-85 to main-
Objectives   taim  the construction rhythm of ongoing electricity development
and          projects, which will supply the electric energy needed to facil-
Description: itate growth of industrial and commercial activities, as well as
help supply electricity to a larger segment of the country's
population, only 54% of which now have access to it. The parti-
cipation of the international capital market, which had dimi-
nished sharply from past years, has been enlisted in this.1/
The proposed project also seeks to support the development of
FEN, the recently-established financial arm of the power sector,
created to tap domestic and external capital markets on its
behalf. Support is provided under the project to assist FEN in
its role of strengthening power sector financial management.
The proposed project consists of subprojects representing a
two-year time-slice of priority ongoing electricity development
investments, several of which are already partly financed with
Bank loans. Criteria and procedures for subproject selection
have been agreed with FEN. Based upon these criteria, a group
of subprojects has been selected on a preliminary basis, with
final selection and sub-loan amounts to be based upon detailed
proposals in each case. Subprojects will consist of a portion
of the civil works, goods and services associated with the
investments, including interest during construction on existing
Bank loans where justified, and the proposed subloans to be made
by FEN to the utilities would finance foreign exchange costs not
1/ Approval of the Board of Executive Directors of the negotiated terms and
conditions of proposed US$30 million Bank participation in the US$200
million B-loans is to be sought on the basis of President's Memoranda
distributed separately.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
covered from other sources.  Procurement under the proposed Bank
loan, as well as the Bank's share of the cofinancing loans,
would be under international competitive bidding in line with
Bank guidelines. The project would be implemented over a 2-year
period, beginning in the second quarter of 1984.
Estimated Costs:
Investments in Progress of ISA, EEEB, EPM and CVC 2/3/
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
l.  Civil works, goods and services                  704.0        694.0   1,398.0
2.  Interest during construction                       -          204.0      204.0
Total                                     704.0        898.0   1,602.0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
1.  Existing external financing                       -           528.0      528.0
2.  A-Loan                                            -           170.0      170.0
3.  B-Loans                                           -           200.0      200.0
4.  Other external loans                              25.0         -          25.0
5.  Internal cash generation                         466.0         -         466.0
6.  Local currency FEN loans                         170.0         -         170.0
7.  Other                                             43.0         -          43.0
Total                                     704.0        898.0   1,602.0
2/  Estimates do not include two rural-based utilities whose eligibility to
participate in the project is contingent upon their meeting certain
conditions, including the preparation of viable financing plans.
3/  Investments by one utility in construction projects of another utility
are not included nor are permanent working capital increases. Inclusion
of these items, which are being financed by internal sources, would bring
aggregate investment requirements to US$2,049 million.



Estimated Disbursements:
CY:         1984     1985      1985 Cumulative
100.0     70.0            170.0
Rate of Return:       Projects which are prospective candidates for Bank
financing have higher estimated internal rates of return
than when originally appraised by the Bank. For all
hydroelectric facilities included under the project,
representing about 80% of project cost, the average cost
per installed kW is estimated at a low US$700. Sub-
transmission and distribution facilities would represent
the least--cost means of bringing electricity to the
final consumer.
Risks:                There is a risk that the local currency share of invest-
ments may not be available in a timely manner. However,
the expected internal cash generation of the four major
utilities and the measures already taken by the
Colombian authorities to mobilize domestic savings, as
well as future actions that have been agreed should
enable project financing to materialize as scheduled.
There is another risk, which is attendant upon FEN's
ability to fulfill its role as a development banking
institut-ion. However, the establishment of sound lend-
ing and operating criteria, the support provided under
the project for the entity's monitoring and advisory
role and the broad-based composition of its Credit
Committee are considered adequate to minimize this risk.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 4771-Co, March 8, 1984.



f         O                                                                                                          I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
FINANCIERA ELECTRICA NACIONAL
FOR A
POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Financiera Electrica National (FEN), with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$170 million for a power deve-
lopment finance project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four  years of grace, and would bear a front-end fee of US$423,940.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
mission was followed by a small updating mission which visited the country in
February 1984. This section reflects both missionts major findings. Country
data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.2% on average during the
1950-83 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0% to 3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,



- 2 -
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. Colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0%.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the early 1990s.
5.         The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and,relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care., the crude death rate fell by
about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently.  The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 3.5 per thousand in the late 1970s.  Infant mortality fell
to 55 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 196Qs and, by the late 1970s, 79% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties.  Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy.  In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substilution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic inf-rastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest.  By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was conr
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping
the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint



- 3 -
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to ccrrect the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1% of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the effects
of increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso depreciation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable.  Real GDP growth declined to 4% in
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.



- 4 -
10..      In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems have continued through 1983.  Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5% in 1981 fell to 1.4% in 1982 and to about 1% in 1983. Agricultural
out:put was hard-hit both in 1982 and 1983 as the production of coffee, cotton
and oil seeds dropped as a result of low international prices, reduced fer-
tilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial activity deteriorated on account
of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to increase,
particularly in manufacturing. After experiencing a surplus for six years, a
deficit emerged in the resource balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion,
which continued at roughly this level through 1983. These deficits resulted
mainly from a drop in exports by about 9% annually in real terms:  major
reasons were the slowdown in world demand, a major devaluation and the intro-
duction of import restrictions in Venezuela--a major trading partner--in
1983, and the reduction in Colombia's coffee export quota in the Inter-
national Coffee Agreement significantly below the 1981 coffee export level.
Net foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$1,800 million in 1983 and
Colombia's net international reserves were equivalent to about 6.7 months of
imports of goods and non-factor service at year end. To a significant
extent, the fall in foreign exchange reserves was caused by the difficulties
in tapping capital markets which resulted from the external debt problems of
other countries. Inflation slowed down in 1983 to a 20% average for the
year, down from 28% in 1981 and 25% in 1982.
11.       In 1983 the Government introduced a series of measures designed to
stimulate aggregate demand and to initiate the adjustment process required to
expand and diversify non-coffee exports, stimulate domestic production, and
resume economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation has been accelerated
withl a view to regaining the 1975 real exchange rate over the 1983-84 period;
the housing construction industry has been provided with incentives to
mob;ilize an increasing amount of resources; and open market operations have
been discontinued to increase liquidity in the economy. Temporary import
restrictions have been introduced to arrest the falling foreign exchange
reserves; these are to be lifted once the real exchange rate achieves its
equilibrium level and exports respond fully to this incentive. The stabili-
zation measures introduced in 1977 have been gradually dismantled, followed
by government legislation, measures and regulations designed to reduce the
fiscal deficit and ease distortions and restricitions in the financial
system. The effects of the above measures are beginning to be felt in 1984.
However, the country continues to be affected by the tight international
capital market in 1984, which together with a somewhat slower export growth
than expected by the Government, have produced further declines in foreign
exchange reserves. The Goverrnment will thus have to intensify its external
resource mobilization and export promotion efforts during 1984 to strengthen
rapidly Colombia's external sector.
Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development object-
ives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This strategy
emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the benefits of
deve;Lopment to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved through
increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the process of
economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the resumption of



- 5 -
growth while maintaining price stability.  The strategy strengthens the pre-
vious emphasis on export promotion as a means of supplementing domestic
demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and on policy measures
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a continuation of the large effort in public investment, giving
high priority to energy, agriculture and industrial projects and to the pro-
vision of transport infrastructure. Economic decentralization, regional
autonomy and the uniting of regional growth centers through improved trans-
port, communication and financial links are directed towards creating an
integrated national market. The development plan's strategy also places
emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and commercial agriculture as a
means of diversifying and increasing exports, assuring adequate domestic food
supplies, holding down inflation and contributing to the Government's nutri-
tion and welfare goals.  Industrial policy objectives are to provide an envi-
ronment of certainty, along with adequate credit an(' infrastructure, so that
entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and expand output. Because of its
benefits in opening foreign markets, creating employment and bringing in new
technology, private foreign investment is to be encouraged. The financial
sector is also to be strengthened. The Government's approach to helping the
poor takes on a new orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its
efforts are focused upon improving efficiency in the use of resources, broad-
ening coverage of services and strengthening the social service institu-
tions. Programs in the housing, health, and education sectors are to be
better focused and integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged
groups, such as workers in the informal sector, children and unemployed
youth, are singled out for special attention. Combined with a significant
expansion in construction of low-income housing and the extension of the
Integrated Rural Development program, the new directions given to social
programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income groups
in Colombia.
13.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976, and by 1984 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 14% of merchandise exports. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources--hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon increasing
petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that balance consumption with energy resource
availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient domestic and
external financing for these investments, strengthened sector institutions,
improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of investments.
Although planning and policy making have improved substantially in many
energy sector institutions in recent years, further improvements in overall
sector planning and coordination are needed. A recently completed National
Energy study carried out by the Government is providing the basis for seeking
such improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions have gone a
considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating con-
sumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers (primarily
foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude provide adequate produc-
tion incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products have been
increased substantially in recent years, reflecting, on the whole, inter-
national levels.



14.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down rarkedly
ir, recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
thie increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential.  Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
beczome a constraint on economic growth and exports, affecting particularly
the development of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have taken steps to improve the country's
in;Erastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the ongoing
Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
16.       A large increase of public sector investment will be required in
the next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1984-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 5% p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, houasing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 9% of GDP diuring the 1984-86 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,312 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration; resources will
have to be used more efficiently; and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of measures to
tackle some of these issues were approved by Congress in 1983, including
measures related to broadenirg the base and increasing the average rate of
the sales tax, increasing othler indirect taxes, reducing the earmarking of
revenues, reducing tax evasion, and strengthening tax administration which
are expected to have an effect in 1984. Since this effort is likely to coinr
cide with increased private sector demand for investment resources, the



- 7 -
importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be over-stressed.
The recent capital market liberalization should encourage savings. A signi-
ficant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely, however, as long
as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization remains a sine qua
non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably good and
significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated.  However, because
of the decline in coffee prices and the weakening in exports caused by the
recession in some of traditional Colombian markets, in addition to the need
to increase imports to develop the cotntry's resource potential and restore
higher economic growth, the current account deficit of the balance of pay-
ments is projected to average US$1.7 billion per year during 1984-86, equiva-
lent to 4% of GDP. Almost half of the deficit is projected to be financed by
reducing foreign exchange reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the
end of this period, net official international reserves would have fallen to
a level of about three months of imports of goods and norr-factor services (a
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 4% during this period. Beyond 1986, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a leveling-off of imports resulting from increased domestic production of
petroleum. The current account deficit would gradually fall to about 1% of
GDP by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of about 4% per annum during
1984-86, gross fixed investment will have to be maintained at 20% of GDP, and
to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 19% of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total US$6.1
billion in current prices for the 1984-86 period, for an annual average
requirement of about US$2.0 billion. Net foreign investment is expected to
account for US$0.9 billion during 1984-86. This should provide about 15% of
the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 85% (US$5.2 billion)
about US$2.5 billion, has been either committed or is expected to be secured
from multilateral and bilateral sources, while the difference, US$2.7
billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from financial markets and supp-
liers' credit sources. At the end of 1982, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$6.2
billion, equivalent to 16% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 22%. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing from commer-
cial sources, this share is expected to remain at about 20% during 1983-86.
The public debt service ratio at the end of 1982 was 18% and is expected to
climb to 25% by 1986, peak at about 27% in 1988 and then decline gradually to
24% in 1990. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected to
remain below 25% during 1983-86. With continued sound economic and financial
management, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1984-90 period.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.        The proposed loan, the 102nd to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,818.9 million (net of can-
cellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1983
US$2,831.8 million;  IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 66 loans and the IDA credit.
During 1972-77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then
declined slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased to US$215 million in
1980 and US$250 million per year in 1981 and 1982, reflecting the higher
level of commitments in the late 1970s.  While disbursements in Colombia have
been slower than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar pro-
jects, concentrated efforts to overcome problems to initiate project execu-
tion have resulted in a 27% increase in disbursements during FY83 compared to
the previous year and in the current year disbursements have continued at the
higher level.  The gradually improving performance of social sector institu-
tions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of
inflationary pressures and the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal re-
forms, which should improve counterpart funding, and the increased Bank lend-
ing for infrastructure projects, all point to ai higher level of disbursements
in the future. IFC has made investments and utderwriting commitments of
US$119.8 million in 29 enterprises and, as of September 30, 1983, it held
US$48.8 million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the
IDA credit and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
21.        During the past 17 years, Bank lending to Colombia has become quite
diversified. While before 1966, 22 loans out of a total of 25 loans made to
Colombia were for power and transport projects, since then, from a total of
75 loans only 21 have been made to these sectors.  In addition, all four
loans for education, 13 of the 15 loans for industry, 15 of the 17 agricultu-
ral loans, one loan for nutrition, two loans for urban development, all nine
loans for water supply and sewerage and one for coal exploration, were made
after 1966. The diversification was indeed a desirable aim as it helped pror-
vide close contact with a broader range of Colombia's development problems.
The experience gained has served to identify areas in which the Bank's role
can only be a marginal one and, thus, to enable lending to be focused upon
sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a meaningful impact.
22.        Bank lending to Colombia in FY83 consisted of loans for rural edu-
cation and agricultural research totalling US$78.4 million equivalent.  In
addition to the loan presented in this report, the current program includes
already approved loans for coal exploration and earthquake reconstruction,
and loans for agricultural diversification, small scale industry, development
finance and multipurpose water and power development. Work is also underway
on projects for water supply and sewerage, electric power, agricultural
extension and marketing, fertilizers, irrigation and teacher training for
possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
23.        The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's deve-
lopment strategy. To help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy, a
sizeable part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower.  The Bank ir-
tends to assist in the development of coal mines which hold potential to help
Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports.
Bank financing in the energy sector would also assist in strengthening major



institutions and in mobilizing external finance, as most of the projects
would require substantial cofinancing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to support the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment, and to increase and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank lending for inr
frastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-regional flow of
goods and services. Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of
the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population.
Proposed lending for rural electrification, further rural development, agri-
cultural credit, water supply and sewerage, and irrigation projects are prin-
cipally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
V        I.  While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, thei share had decreased
since then to some 60% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to decline fur-
ther to about 30% of external capital requirements during the eighties. Like
the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to projects with a poverty orient-
ation and has financed projects in low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control. In the future, it proposed to assist Colombia
in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector
activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported prog-
rams in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Governments of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III:, THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources and Policies
25.       Colombia is rich in energy resources, particularly hydroelectricity
and coal. Its reserves of oil and natural gas are modest by international
standards, yet significant at the national level. In terms of known re-
serves, about 55% of Colombia's primary energy potential lies in hydroelec-
tricity, 40% in coal and only 5% in oil and natural gas. In contrast, con-
sumption of commercial energy relies primarily upon oil products (50%) and
less on natural gas (20%), coal (22%) and hydroelectricity (8%).
26.       Colombia traditionally enjoyed a positive trade balance in energy
because of its relatively rich energy endowment and modest consumption (at
about one ton of coal equivalent per annum, per capita energy consumption is
below average for middle-income developing countries). In 1976 the country
became a net importer of energy, and by 1981 oil imports reached almost
US$400 million, mainly because of a 7% annual fall in oil output between 1970
and 1979. The Government moved in the late-1970s to redress the negative
energy trade balance through: (i) pricing measures to increase the cost of
energy to consumers, changing relative prices to encourage consumers to move
away from oil, and providing incentives to producers; and (ii) direct public
sector investments, particularly hydroelectricity and coal. As a result, the
previous trend has been reversed since 1980, with production increases in
petroleum, aggregate energy consuamption growth lower than GDP, and



- 10 -
petroleum's share of total primary energy consumption falling, and hydroelec-
tricity, coal and natural gas increasing.
27.        Known oil reserves at the end of 1981 totalled about 700 million
barrels, or only about 10 years consumption at present rates of utilization.
Policies pursued during the 1960s and the early 197Cs contributed to a dete-
riorating oil situation. Prices to consumers and producers were kept artifi-
cially low, thus promoting consumption and dampening incentives for develop-
ment of new reserves through exploration. In recent years the Government
moved forcefully to remedy this by bringing internal consumer prices closer
to international levels (internal prices were increased by more than three-
fold in real terms between 1974 and 1980, and, since the latter year, have
fluctuated around 80%-90% of international prices) and by enabling producers
to benefit from a large part of the price increases. As a result, explora-
tion has increased from 11 wells per year in 1975 to 61 in 1981, with known
reserves expanding by about 10% in 1981, after several years of steady dec-
line. Also, crude oil production has been increasing at over 5% per annum
since 1980 to some 80% of domestic consumption at present. Average growth in
consumption has not surpassed 0.5% per annum during the last five years, and
self-sufficiency in oil may be within reach during the mid-198 i.
28.       Measured natural gas reserves stood at about 4.2 trillion cubic
feet at the end of 1981, or almost 40 years consumption at present rates of
utilization.  Most reserves, production and consumption are concentrated on
the northern coast, and total consumption growth averaged about 7% per annum
over the last five years.  Thermal power plants now account for about half of
total gas use. Industry represents the bulk of the remainder with oil re-
fineries also important consumers.  There is significant excess supply in the
northern region, and further important increases in consumption are tied
largely to several gas-processing options currently being studied. The best
alternative appears to be an ammonia-urea plant (the Bank is the Executing
Agency for a UNDP-financed feasibility study). As a consequence of the gas
surplus on the northern coast, the Government has not yet defined a clear
pricing policy for natural gas. Prices for new deliveries are negotiated
ex-posi: with producers, which is a disincentive for exploration. Although
consumer prices are relatively low (less than US$2 per thousand cubic feet),
the exltent to which they result in misallocation of resources is not clear
because the viability of future gas-consuming projects remains to be estab-
lished
29.       Colombia's coal resources are substantial, with reserves estimated
at some 16 billion tons, of which only about 20% can be classified as mea-
sured. At planned rates of use, reserves would last hundreds of years. In
view of the magnitude of reserves, Government policy encourages domestic conr-
sumption in substitute for natural gas and fuel oil, and promotes coal ex-
ports. Since 1979, the UNDP and the Bank have been working jointly with the
State coal corporation, CARBOCOL, that together with an EXXON subsidiary has
undertaken a project to produce 15-mtpy from El Cerrejon North. The recent-
ly-approved loan for a coal exploration project will assist in assessing the
economic potential of several other promising areas.
30.       Coal production grew at about 7% per annum on average over the
1970s to reach a level of about 5 million tons in 1981.  Production came from



- ii -
about 400 small and medium-scale mines, virtually all of which are norrmecha-
nized. More than half of coal production and consumption is concentrated in
the highlands near Bogota. Sixty percent of all coal is consumed by indus-
try, and most of the rest by the power sector. Colombian coal is bituminous,
with high calorific value and low sulphur content, and some possesses coking
properties. In 1982, domestic coal prices, which are set by market forces,
typically ranged between US$25-35 per ton delivered to large consumers in the
industrial centers of Bogota, Medellin and Cali. This is well below inter-
national prices, but high internal transport costs imposed by the long dis-
tance to ports and difficult terrain for now all but rule out exports of coal
from the interior of the country.
31.       Colombia's hydroelectric potential, at about 100 GW, is amongst the
largest in the world.  Although the country has made strides in developing
this potential, only some 4% has been developed to date (para. 34).  How-
ever, plants now under construction will virtually double capacity by 1988.
Since the plentiful hydro-reserves can be developed at relatively low cost,
they represent an option of high priority. However, the optimal mix of gene-
ration sources needs to be determined to take advantage of projected inr-
creased supply of coal and existing availability of a natural gas surplus.
This matter is currently being studied.
Energy Investment and Financial Issues
32.       In Colombia, electricity, petroleum and natural gas prices are set
by the Government. In spite of positive Government actions in recent years,
there is still a need to develop long-term pricing policies that reflect the
opportunity cost of the various energy sources and provide, within the
Government's broader objectives, appropriately balanced incentives for their
development. It is not clear whether current prices actually provide such
incentives. Towards this end, the Government has undertaken a major effort
to improve sector knowledge through a National Energy Study (ENE), the first
stage of which was carried out between 1979 and 1982 by the National Planning
Department (DNP) with the help of local consultants and technical assistance
from UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). The report on ENE's
first stage is under Government review. This study provides significant
information needed for energy planning, including preliminary evaluation of
demand growth and investments that could best serve such growth. A second
stage of the ENE is now about to commence with several specialized
studies.1/ The effort has already elicited foreign technical assistance from
official sources. FRG will provide assistance on modeling and data gather-
ing, France on industrial energy savings, Italy on rural electrification, and
the Organization of American States (OAS) on energy use in transportation.
Several energy sector agencies and the Ministry of Public Works will provide
counterpart staff and DNP will coordinate the external assistance. Finally,
in support of Government efforts to sharpen its energy investment strategy,
the Bank will carry out a study on selective issues through the energy
assessment program financed by UNDP.
1/  Among others, studies on natural gas available for ammonia-urea fertili-
zer production and the aforementioned coal exploration studies.



- 12 -
33.        Over the past five! years, Colombia has been successful in mobiliz-
ing external financing for energy development, through direct foreign invest-
ment (in oil and gas first and lately in coal) and external loans to the
energy agencies, includiig power companies. EIowever, current conditions in
the international capital market are making financing more difficult to
obtain. Local financing reqiuirements are covered by internally generated
resources and Government contributions, with the incipient local capital
market providing only a marginal share of financing. To increase internal
resource mobilization by the main energy agencies, prices charged to con-
sumers of petroleum products and electricity have been significantly
increased in real terms (paras. 26 and 36). Furthermore, in 1980 the Govern-
ment created the National Coal Fund that receives revenue from a tax on coal
production and finances coal exploration (80%) and small and medium-scale
coal mining operations (20%).  In 1982 a power development bank--the borrower
for the proposed project--was established to mobilize domestic as well as
foreign resources for the power sector.
Institutional Arrangements in the Power Sector
34.       Through the 1950s, a large number of power companies were set up by
local governmental authorities and, lacking interconnection with each other,
were operated independently in response to regional and departmental needs.
Some 17 years ago, the country's total electricity capacity stood at a mere
1,681 MW (equivalent to about: 88 watts per inhabitant) and reached only about
35% of the population. Although large hydropower sites held the potential of
increasing substantially the supply of electricity at lower cost than other-
wise possible, they were too big to be tapped by any one company. With
encouragement from the Bank, the Government persuaded the regional power com-
panies to break with tradition and pool their resources in a shared effort to
develop the country's large hydroelectric potential (para. 37). To accom-
plish this, Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA) was created as an indepen-
dent, national generation and interconnection company, of which the share-
holders now include all the largest municipal power utilities and the Govern-
ment-owned power companies.3/ In addition to plant construction, ISA has
integrated the regional power systems. At the same time, the Government has
taken measures to improve the sector's prospects for efficient growth; it
estaLblished the National Tariff Board (JNT) in DNP to approve requests from
the power companies for tariff increases, and it has fostered the consolida-
tion of numerous small utilities, particularly in the North Atlantic Region.
The Bank participated actively in the creation of both ISA and JNT.
35.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating
national policy for the generation, transmission and distribution of electri-
city.  It shares with the National Social and Economic Policy Council
(CONPES), DNP and ISA responsibility for defininIg investment priorities. ISA
defines a generation and transmission expansion program for the interconnect-
ed system; after approval by the Ministry, DNP and CONPES, this becomes the
National Power Expansion Program. The Program is reviewed annually by ISA
3/ Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), Empresa de Energia Electrica de
Bogota (EEEB), Corporation Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA),
t'orporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca (CVC), and
Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL).



- 13 -
and revisions, if necessary, are proposed. On the basis of requests from the
companies, JNT in DNP approves rate increases; the power companies, however,
are free to set rates lower than those approved. Although the Government
cannot enforce its policies directly on the municipally controlled power com-
panies, a mechanism for reaching agreement on major issues affecting the
sector is provided by ISA, in which the Government has major holdings through
ICEL and CORELCA. Sector planning and coordination have improved markedly
since the creation of ISA, and the Bank has supported this evolution through
its lending.
National Least-Cost Power Expansion Program
36.       Colombia has shared in the world-wide economic recession since 1980
V           and, over the same period, has effected upward adjustments in electricity ta-
riffs 44% in excess of the consumer price index (pFra. 66). Taking account
of the consequent slowing of electricity demand growth, on May 26, 1983,
CONPES approved a revised National Power Expansion Program for plants enter-
ing service during 1987-96, representing a 31% reduction in investment expen-
ditures previously planned during 1983-86. The plan is based upon a phased
resumption of the average annual economic growth rate of 5.5% achieved from
1965-80, estimated fuel prices and the satisfying of a consequent projected
7.9% average annual electricity demand growth during 1983-2000. (Electricity
demand growth has historically correlated closely to overall economic growth
at an elasticity ratio of 1.5.) For the first time in Colombia, this plan
also takes account of the probability of one-year construction delays for
plants to enter service after 1987, based upon recent experience in con-
structing the country's first large hydro facilities. During the first six
months of 1983, actual electricity demand rose by 7% over the same period of
1982, compared to the 3.5% projected in the plan for the whole of 1983, which
appears to justify the new Expansion Program. To ensure that significant
variations in demand are suitably taken into account, by April 30 of each
year, ISA will update, and the Government will review and furnish to the Bank
for its comments, electricity demand growth projections and the associated
investment program (Section 5.03 of the draft Power Financing Agreement and
Section 3.13 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The results of this exercise
will serve as input for an annual review of sector financing strategy (para.
65). To strengthen its demand forecasting capability, ISA together with con-
sultants financed by UNDP is carrying out a study, for which the Bank is
executing agency.
Power Market and Supply
37.       Electric power has become the fastest-growing form of energy use in
Colombia. Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 6.5% in 1970
to 11.4% in 1980. Generation increased by an average 10% annually during
1970-1980, although it has slowed to 5.4% per annum in 1981-82. Annual per
capita generation in 1982 was about 750 kWh, below average for Latin
America. Effective installed capacity at the end of that year was 4,835 MW,
including self-producers, with public entities accounting for 95% of the
total installed capacity and generation. Diversified peak demand was about
3,854 MW, and total energy generation in 1982 amounted to 21,525 GWh, of
which 21,300 GWh was supplied by ISA and its shareholders. Hydro plants
accounted for about 69% of the total electricity generated.



- 14 -
38.       About 54% of Colombia's population has electric power, compared to
26% in 1950 and 45% in 1970.  The urban population, comprising about 68% of
the population, has greater access.  In 1976, for example, 90% of households
in large cities (population of 50,000 or more) had electrical service while
in rural towns (population between 500-2,500) the corresponding figure was
36%; in other rural areas, 13%. Various programs including the Bank-financed
First and Second Integrated Rural Development Projects and the Village Elec-
trification Project as well as programs financed by IDB, Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau and the Colombia Coffee Growers Association, are aimed at irr-
creasing rural coverage. In 1982 there were about 2.8 million electricity
subscribers of which 88.5% were residential and 9.2% commercial. Electricity
sales in 1982 totalled about 16,70B GWh including minor sales to Ecuador and
Venezuela.
Recent Developments
39.       During the past three years the sector has suffered financial prob-
lems caused mainly by lower than expected revenues resulting from tariff ad-
justment delays, slow demand growth, rationing, and higher than expected lo-
cal cost shares of investments as well as insufficient availability of finan-
cing. Local borrowings needed by the sector have outpaced the domestic bank-
ing system's lending capability (para. 42). Moreover, Government-related
lending earmarked for the sector was held back and monetization of external
borrowings was authorized only on a highly selective basis because of the
lhigher priority accorded to short-term economic management of inflation.
40.       As a result, when the current national administration took office
in August 1982 the sector's financing deficit for the year was estimated to
amount to US$430 million; at the same time, the previously-favorable lending
climate for Colombia in the international capital market became affected by
developments in other Latin American countries and began to deteriorate. In
the Fall of 1982, the authorities moved quickly to review the sector finan-
cing plan and to authorize badly-needed tariff increases for EEEB (a 22% lump
increase and 3.25% monthly, amounting to 73% during the next 12 months--
presently the monthly increase has been reduced to 2.3% to take account of
lower inflation), and EPM (,a 20% one-time adjustment and continuance of 2.2%
a month, or 52% over the same period) and to adopt a financing program to
cover the sector's 1982 shortfall, as well as the aforementioned new borrow-
ings needed in 1983-84. In doing so, the authorities have also recognized
the constraint on sound sector development and finances represented by the 13
mostly rural-based local utilities loosely grouped under the holding company,
ICEL. The Government, therefore, confirmed explicitly the need to restruc-
ture the ICEL-group and also to take special measures, still under study, to
assist the Atlantic Coast regional company, CORELCA, in strengthening the
eight coastal utilities undler its wing. Further, studies were initiated by
the National administration on the possibility of inter-regional unification
ofE tariff structures over the long term. In addition to tariff measures, the
authorities took other actions to mobilize needed local resources. In 1982
and 1983 legislative and other regulatory measures were enacted to create a
development bank for the power sector, FEN, and to put it on an operational
footing. As a result of a well-orchestrated effort by the Government, FEN
and private sector managers in the financial system, FEN attracted consider-
able private financial savings in its initial placement, and substantial
loans to the power companies have been finalized.



- 15 -
41.       In May 1983, the Government reviewed in detail the justification
for, and financial feasibility of all new investments in the large 1982-90
power investment program taking account of prevailing economic conditions and
competing demands from other priority sectors, and reduced by almost one-
third planned capital outlays for electricity (para. 36). The new author-
ities have thus set a course of managing more directly the impact of electri-
city development on the rest of the economy through careful assessment of
proposed investment programs in terms of economic and technical soundness,
compatibility with overall public investment expenditure plans, and financial
feasibility at the national and sectoral level. This approach would help
avoid the severe cashflow difficulties of recent years.  Moreover, it would
bring under regular scrutiny those investments undertaken by individual con-r
panies that do not come under the aegis of the National Power Expansion Prog-
ram (which includes generation plant and transmission lines, but not sub-
transmission or distribution), thereby contributing to the efficiency of re-
source allocation. The proposed project would support this evolution by
helping to mobilize resources needed to maintain construction rhythm of key
projects, and assisting the Government to review on a regular basis the
justification for new investments, and the sector's financial performance and
investment capability. Capital outlays for new electricity development pro-
jects would be authorized by the Government only if the project in question
would be economically justified and there would be available adequate financ-
ing that would not affect negatively the existing financial obligations of
the company (ies) concerned (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Furthermore, except for ongoing projects for which financing is available,
the power utilities would undertake capital expenditures in excess of one
percent of the value of net fixed assets in service only under the conditions
specified immediately above (Section 4.03 of the draft Power Financing Agree-
ment).
The Borrower, FEN
42.       Introduction.  Given the structure and relatively small size of Co-
lombia's financial institutions, by 1981 it had become evident that the rapid
growth over the previous three years of the power sector's requirements for
medium and long-term local currency financing could not be adequately met.
Further, the large volume of resources involved also implied a need for a
specialized institution to oversee the sector's finances, coordinate an over-
all financing strategy, and monitor the economic efficiency with which loan
proceeds were used. In conjunction with the Guavio Hydro Power Project
(2008-CO), the Government confirmed its intention to set up such an institu-
tion. In an important elaboration of the original concept, the Colombian
authorities decided to empower the new entity to raise capital in external as
well as local markets, to enable concentrating a substantial share of overall
resource mobilization for the sector, with attendant economies. FEN was
established by Law 11 of January 1982 and Decree 1471 of May 1982, as a
financial entity of the State with a share capital subscribed by the Nation
(95% of subscribed capital) and the country's main power companies (the 5%
balance). FEN is charged with: (a) structuring and coordinating power
sector finances; (b) making medium and long-term loans (1 to 20 years) as
well as opening letters of credit to finance the shareholding electric utili-
ties' investment programs; (c) mobilizing domestic savings by financial paper
issues and other instruments;(d) conducting foreign credit operations, sub-
ject to the regulations pertaining to public entities; and (e) administering



- 16 -
for its shareholding utilities bond issues and trusts, and guarantee, agent
or payment contracts.
43.       Although FEN's mandate envisages borrowings in the international
capital market on behalf of the power companies, it had been anticipated that
the individual utilities would continue to secure all their own external
capital requirements during the early years of FEN's operations. However,
present market uncertainties vis-a-vis Latin Aaerica have cast doubt upon the
utilities' access to external commercial sources for the financing needed
during 1984-85.  Given the volume of ongoing and future electricity invest-
ments and the number of utilities involved, the concept of concentrating a
substantial part of resource mobilization in a specialized intermediary
offers advantages. Instead of the companies having to stagger sequentially
their forays into the capital market, FEN's going to the market at this time
on behalf of their consolidated requirements permits a smoother cash flow
thereby diminishing the cost of late payments to contractors, and others.
Despite its recent creation, FEN is one of the largest financial entities in
the country in terms of capital base and has already recorded a notable
success in the domestic market (para. 51). The proposed Bank and cofinancing
loans would introduce FEN to the external market. At the same time, it would
be inadvisable to consider directing all lending to the sector through FEN,
principally because the primary financing and appraisal requirements of
large, complex projects can be more effectively handled directly with the
utility involved.
44.       Organization, Administration and Personnel.  FEN's main share-
holders comprise the National Government, ISA, EEEB, EPM, CVC, ICEL, CHEC,
and CORELCA who form its General Assembly. It is managed by a Board of
Directors and a General Manager. The Board is chaired by the Minister of
Mines and Energy and its remaining members are the Chief of DNP, the General
Manager of the Banco de la Republica (BR) and three representatives of the
power company shareholders. The General Manager is elected by the Board for
a two-year, renewable term. Provision is also made for an independent audit-
or (para. 67). FEN's Bylaws cover the important aspects of the entity's role
and operations and are acceptable. Changes that would, in the Bank's
opinion, affect adversely FEN would not be introduced into the entity's
Bylaws or legal framework (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       FEN's organizational structure comprises a General Secretariat,
Administration, Finance, Technical, and External Operations. It has a core
professional staff of 25, who are in place and are well qualified. To
administer efficiently the proposed project, FEN would augment its technical
staff by June 30, 1984 with conisultants who will provide technical assistance
to existing staff in the areas of project analysis and monitoring, and opera-
tional procedures (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). They will
also carry out, by December 31, 1984, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, a study of the entity's technical staffing needs.  Based upon
the results of this study, and the Bank's comments upon it, FEN will employ
the additional staff needed (Section 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Credit Policy and Regulations.  FEN's credit policy requires estab-
lishment of the economic and financial feasibility of the projects it
finances. Its lending is project-based, within a framework that: (a) calls



- 17 -
for the power company borrowers to achieve/maintain a sound level of manage-
rial, operational and financial performance; (b) specifies conditions govern-
ing procurement and disbursement to ensure that proceeds are used in an eco-
nomically efficient manner and for specified purposes; (c) provides for
causes of suspension of disbursements and acceleration of loan maturity; and
(d) requires regular reporting, as well as post-project evaluation. Its
variable interest rate policy ties the rate to be charged to FEN's total cost
of funds plus a reasonable profit (paras. 67-69). FEN would not introduce
any change in its credit policy that, in the Bank's opinion, would affect
negatively the entity or the proposed project (Section 5.01 (b) of the draft
f        Loan Agreement).
47,       FEN's Credit Committee, composed of BR, Ministry of Mines and
Energy, DNP, the President of FEN and one representative of the power sector,
considers loan applications. The composition of the %ommittee would promote
progress toward regular review at the national level of all planned power in-
vestments. Upon the Committee's favorable recommendation, the proposed loan
is presented for final approval by FEN's Board of Directors.
48.       Lending Operations.  FEN has two ways of lending in the usual
course of its business. First, a local bank, with FEN's authorization, may
lend to a power company based upon prior agreement with FEN that the bank
will in effect borrow from FEN a high percentage of the face loan amount to
be lent to the utility; in effect,, a rediscounting arrangement. Secondly,
FEN may make a direct loan to a power company, which must be secured with
local bank guarantees or, in the case of resources originating from external
sources, guaranteed either by banks or by the Government. FEN's maximum
lending exposure to an individual utility was originally governed by a statur-
tory regulation too restrictive to enable FEN to lend both locally and exter-
nally mobilized resources, but this has recently been revised and adequate
arrangements are now in place.
49.       In its locally-based lending, FEN intends to use primarily the re-
discount mechanism, as the banks' participation will increase the financing
available to the utilities. Normally in making loans, banks would be
required by the Government to invest an additional amount (16.5%) in
Agricultural Fiduciary Fund paper that gives an annual yield of about 8%,
well below the market interest rate. To assist FEN in being able to offer
attractive margins to the banks without raising the interest rate charged to
its borrowers, or increasing the discounted share of the loan, FEN's re-
discount operations have been exempted from these forced investments.
50.       Market Operations.  FEN's operations in the local financial market
will be a major determinant of its lending capability (paras. 67-69). To tap
the financial savings market, FEN is empowered, inter alia, to issue bonds,
sell promissory notes, term certificates of deposit, and other financial pa-
per. Although the financing requirements of the power sector are mainly for
medium- and long-term loans, under current tax regulations and in an infla-
tionary environment, FEN would be expected to encounter difficulties in
raising medium- and long-term funds locally. Even if there were incentives,
it might take some time for FEN to be able to attract substantial invest-
ments of this type. In the interim, this implies a considerable reliance on
term transformation, i.e., borrowing short and lending long. FEN has not yet
been provided with access to short-term borrowing from BR to cushion it
against an unexpected drop in savings mobilization, similar to that available



- 18 -
to other banks.  An adequate quota would be assigned prior to loan effective-
ness under the same conditions applicable to similar financial intermediaries
operating in Colombia (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement), and these
arrangements would be maintained thereafter (Section 5.01(e) of the draft
Loan. Agreement).
51.       Initially, FEN has followed closely the design of paper issued
successfully in the recent past. In 1983 it was authorized to place and
maintain in circulation through end-1984 Col$ 7,000 million (US$88 million) in
Electricity Certificates (CEVs), representing its first financial issue. The
CEVs quickly sold out, in 90 and 180-day paper, and have been promptly
renewed totally in 180-day paper. These favorable results may be attributed
to FEN's having chosen a proven instrument and having projected a strong pro-
fessional and financial image.  Timing was another factor.  Because of the
priority accorded to electricity investment financing, the National Monetary
Board had authorized FEN to ernter the market at a time when the pricing of
other available issues was relatively less competitive. Estimates of FEN's
future ability to mobilize finance take account of the market conditions that
prevailed during the entity's first venture (para. 52). In line with the
recommendation of the Monetary Board that it  investigate innovative mecha-
nisms to attract resources, FEN has recently requested authorization to issue
an additional COL$15,000 million, two-thirds in CEVs and the balance in
2-year bonds with an upward sliding return for investors who hold them beyond
a minimum period. FEN is also looking into other options for future place-
ments. To promote progress toward a deepening of market receptivity, by
December 31, 1984, FEN would prepare a plan of action acceptable to the
Government and the Bank to encourage mediumr and long-term private investment
in FEN paper, and the Government would promptly thereafter put the plan into
acticyn (Section 4.11 of the draft Loan agreement and Section 3.03 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
52.       To help ensure that FEN mobilizes domestic savings at a level conr-
sistent with its capturing an appropriate share of incremental financial re-
sources (paras. 64 and 68), targeted annual amounts of funds to be raised
from local investors have been agreed. These would be reviewed annually by
FEN, the Government and the Banik, and updated with Bank concurrence, in light
of the power sector's financing requirements and other factors (para. 65)
(Section 4.12 of the draft Loan Agreement). Further, the Government would
take all measures necessary on its part to provide FEN with adequate access
to the domestic capital market to meet the above-mentioned targets (Section
3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Bank Participation
53.       Since 1950, the Bank has made 27 loans to Colombia's power sector,
totalling US$1,374 million. In addition, the Bark is assisting with the pre-
paration of three generation and transmission projects now at the feasibility
stage.; Rio Grande Multipurpose project (water supply and power, EPM), Calima
III Hydro Power (CVC) and Urra (Alto Sinu) Hydro Power (CORELCA and ISA).
Past loans have assisted the expansion of generating capacity, and transmis-
sion and distribution facilities in the systems serving Bogota, Medellin,
Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, including expansion of electri-
city distribution to low income areas (874-Co, 1973; 1807-CO, 1980; and
1868-CO, 1980). The Bogota Distribution Project (1807-CO, 1981) has been the
first Bank loan to Colombia to support exclusively distribution expansion



- 19 -
and, in addition to other beneficiaries, would directly benefit about 340,000
lower income consumers. In addition, the Bank has supported rural electrifi-
cation under 246-Co (1960) and 313-CO (1962), the First and Second Integrated
Rural Development Project (1352-CO, 1977; 2174-CO, 1983), and the Village
Electrification Project (1999-CO, 1983). Other recent loans included the
500-kV Interconnection Line (1583-CO, 1978), and for hydro power generation,
the San Carlos I and II (Loans 1582-CO, 1978; 1725-CO, 1979), Mesitas (1628-
CO, 1979), Guadalupe IV (1868-CO, 1980), Playas (1953-CO, 1981) and Guavio
Projects (2008-Co, 1982) which would, respectively, complete the task of in-
terconnecting the country's regional power systems begun under 575-CO (1968),
*           and add a total of 3,253 MW of capacity to the national interconnected sys-
tem. In addition to coordinating a technical assistance project to strength-
en system planning (para. 36), the Bank is the executing agency for another
UNDP-financed project which would enhance the sector's construction manage-
ment capability for large hydroelectric facilities. Further, in connection
with Bank lending, marginal cost: tariff studies have been carried out for the
major markets by ISA's shareholders. The adoption of the results of the stu-
dy into the various tariff structures is under discussion with the Govern-
ment. Taken together, the above-mentioned projects reflect the Bank's parti-
cipation in overall power development in Colombia, from the planning stage
through financing and construction of generation and transmission facilities,
to delivery of service to the final consumer.
54.       Previous Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been found
generally successful in several OED reports. For instance, the most recent
report, "Power Interconnection (575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects
(681-CO)" (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979), commented upon the Bank's par-
ticipation in Colombia's effort to evolve a stronger and more efficient power
sector organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunction with these
projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and institutional diffi-
culties, real progress was made toward more coordinated sector development.
Despite implementation delays and increased costs, both projects were suc-
cessfully implemented. Also, the report entitled "Bank Operations in Colom-
bia, an Evaluation" (Report No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972, concluded that Bank
financing was successful in assisting the power companies to develop hydro-
electric plants at lower unit cost than they otherwise would have been able
to do.  In turn, this permitted greater urban coverage as well as cheaper and
more reliable electricity supply to industry. The report commended Bank
efforts in the establishment of JNT and the central interconnected system,
which facilitated further power sector development.  Among other things, the
report recommended that in the future the Bank pay increased attention to the
companies' financial planning, tariff structures, distribution programs and
energy losses. These points have been addressed under the aforementioned re-
cent loans, which have been the first Bank operations since late 1972 because
sector financial difficulties precluded needed expansion of generation faci-
lities in the interim. Complementary measures to sustain investment capabi-
lity, and thus ensure completion of high priority projects in a reasonable
period, and to strengthen financial planning are a main focus of the proposed
project.



- 20 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
55.       The project was prepared by FEN and the Bank, and was appraised by
a Bank mission that visited Colombia in March 1983. Negotiations were held
:Ln Washington, D.C., and Cartagena, Colombia, during the weeks of January 2,
1L984 and January 30, 1984, respectively, with a Colombian delegation led by
I)ra. Florangela Gomez, Vice-tMinister of Finance, Dr. Jorge Serpa, Director of
I'ublic Credit, Ministry of Finance, and Dr. Antonio Hernandez, President of
FEN.  The Staff Appraisal Report (4771-CO of March 8, 1984) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
56.       Of the two main project objectives, the first is to assist Colombia
in its efforts to provide the electricity supply required to support growth
and employment. At the present time, the country needs support to sustain,
during 1984-85, the scheduled construction pace of several high priority
electricity development projects in its scaled down investment program. De-
lays, mainly attributable to unforeseen geological characteristics and
insufficient financing availabilities, have already added 1 to 2 years to
estimated completion dates of various large hydroelectric facilities.
Fuirther significant slippage is estimated to entail heavy electricity ration-
ing, despite the aforementioned slowing of demand.  Several of these projects
have Bank loans associated with a portion of their foreign exchange cost, but
substantial additional external financing is required both to complete the
original financing plans and to cover cost increases. Although it had been
expected at the time these projects were appraised that the private financing
sc readily available up to 24 months ago would continue to be obtainable as
needed, and on attractive terms, market conditions and experience today have
proven otherwise. For example, in 1980 private external lenders provided 55%
of the sector's external capital requirements and, although it had been anti-
cipated that this share wou:Ld continue its upward trend and average about 75%
during 1981-90, this has not materialized. Therefore, the project also seeks
to re-enlist the support of foreign commercial lenders to the power sector,
through a US$170 million Bank loan together with a proposed US$200 million
B-loan cofinancing package which is well advanced.2/
57.       The second objective is to support the development of FEN.  As
Borrower for the Bank and B-loans, these would be the first external loans to
FEN. Since they would partially finarce a time-slice of an investment pro-
gram, this operation represents a first sector lending project for power in
Co:Lombia. It provides an opportunity to help ensure that, from an early
stage of FEN's operational life, the institution would have the capability to
be an effective channel for such lending and would foster reciprocal capabi-
lity in the power utilities. Ongoing efforts to strengthen the financial
management of the sector, as reflected in existing loan and other agreements,
would be buttressed further by the direct support to FEN to monitor the uti-
lities' financial performance and prospects, and act as power financing
2/ Approval of the Board of Executive Directors of the negotiated terms and
conditions of proposed BEInk participation in the B-loan is to be sought
on the basis of President's Memoranda distributed separately.



- 21 -
strategy advisor to the Government and the sector. Additionally, the loan
would further enhance FEN's image! in the domestic capital market and, thus,
help facilitate its access to future savings.
The Project, Cost and Financing E'lan
58.       The proposed project consists of the 1984-85 program of priority
ongoing electricity development investments of ISA, EEEB, EPM and CVC, with
contingent inclusion of ICEL and CORELCA (para. 63), as well as a program to
assist FEN in strengthening its technical capability (para. 45). The time-
slice is subdivided into subprojects corresponding to that portion of elec-
tricity development projects that would be underway during the period, even
though completion of the works may extend beyond it. All subprojects under
the project are to be:  (a) part of the National Power Expansion Program
(para. 36), in the case of generation and transmiss-on; (b) the least-cost
solution for completing the network path to the final consumer, in the case
of subtransmission and distribution; or (c) additions to general plant needed
to complement (a) and (b) above. Additionally, for subprojects to be
financed with the proposed loan or with the Bank's share of the B-loans: (a)
project costs originally expected to be financed by commercial lenders would
be eligible but project cost overruns would not be, except for the Mesitas
HIydro Power Project (para. 59) (Supplemental Letter No. 2 to the draft Loan
Agreement); (b) interest during construction on existing Bank loans would be
eligible for financing in the cases of ISA, EEEB and EPM, all of which compa-
nies have under construction during 1984-85 additions to fixed assets, partly
supported by Bank loans, that are large relative to the capital assets
already employed by these companies (Section 2.02(a,i) of the draft Loan
Agreement); and (c) retroactive financing from January 1, 1983, would not
exceed US$29 million equivalent of the total of the proposed loan and the
Bank's proposed share (US$30 million) of the B-loans (representing 15% of
total Bank lending for the project) (Sections 2.02(d,i) of the draft Loan
Agreement). On this basis together with the procurement norms described in
para. 61, the subprojects eligible for financing under the proposed loan, and
the Bank's share of the cofinancing loans would include San Carlos I and II
(1,240 MW), Playas (200 MW), Guadalupe IV (213 MW) and Guavio (1,000 MW), as
well as the Bogota Distribution Project. Subprojects eligible for financing
by commercial banks under the B-loans would include Chivor II Emergency
Works, Tunjita and Rucio River i)iversions, Jaguas (170 MW), Salvajina (270
MW) (partly financed by IDB), Termozipa V (66 MW), Termocerrejon I and II
(340 MW), Betania (500 MW), Termotasajero (150 MW) and other smaller instal-
lations, transmission lines and substations, subtransmission, urban and rural
distribution, and load dispatch centers. Sub-loans from FEN to the utilities
under the project would finance foreign costs.   The total cost of ISA, EEEB,
EPM and CVC's ongoing investments during 1984-85 is estimated at US$1,602
million (excluding permanent working capital increases and aggregate invest-
ments in projects of other utilities which are being financed from internal
sources and, together, would bring aggregate investment costs to US$2,049
million). Foreign costs of the project comprise US$898 million including
civil works, goods and services, interest during construction and studies.
Existing financing would cover US$528 million of these requirements, or 59%;
the proposed loan, 19%; the B-loans, 22%. US$704 million of local costs are
being financed from internal cash generation, 66%; local currency FEN loans,
20%; user contributions, 10%; and future external borrowings, 4%.



- 22 -
59.       The Mesitas Hydroelectric Project, partly financed by a US$84
mil'Lion Bank loan, was originally to be completed in early 1982. However,
geological problems encountered in tunnel excavation have caused a delay in
excess of one year. Additionally, EEEB suffered revenue losses of about
US$40 million in 1981, despite tariff adjustments in that year of about 20%
higher than the consumer price index, as a result of the heavy rationing
caused by an atypical, severe drought. EEEB's ensuing financial difficulties
contributed to the bankruptcy of a main contractor, who was replaced in
1983. The project is now expected to be completed in mid-1984. At the time
of Bank appraisal, late 1977, total project cost was estimated at US$260.8
million, of which US$148.4 million represented foreign cost and US$112.4
million, local. Current projiect cost estimate is US$407.3 million, including
US$233.1 million of foreign cost and US$174.2 million of local. The cost
increases derive from: (a) additional quantities of civil works because of
unforeseen geological characteristics; (b) higher base cost of equipment; and
(c) doubling of price contingencies resulting mainly from higher inflation
than expected in the early years of construction and, in minor part, from
delay in completion of the works. Notwithstanding the substantial cost
increases, the project scope is not amenable to scaling down and it remains
economically justified. In addition to a unit cost that remains low, US$670
per installed kW, the projectss internal rate of return exceeds the appraised
estimate because EEEB's electricity tariffs (the proxy for benefits) have
increased 66% more than project costs. In addition to tariff adjustments,
EEEB and the Government have made strong efforts to cover the higher costs.
The company is meeting entirely the local cost component, and US$28 million
more than the US$54 million of external commercial borrowings originally
planned have been secured.  It is envisaged that FEN sub-loans would cover
the remaining foreign cost of about US$63 million. Because other sources of
financing are not available, US$43.2 million are proposed to be financed by
Bank resources and US$19.7 million by the commercial lenders in the
cofinancing B-loans.
Subloans and Onlending Terms
60.        Sub-loans financed under the proposed loan would require prior Bank
approval, except that sub-loans up to a total of US$4 million for a given
subproject would be free-limit sub-loans (other than the first 3 such sub-
loans). Bank approval of free-limit sub-loans would, however, be required
prior to authorizing corresponding disbursements from the loan account
(Sect-ion 2.02(a) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Each sub-loan will be
based upon detailed applications conforming to the aforementioned criteria.
FEN would approve applications for sub-loans under the cofinancing B-loans
only if the utility submitting the application would be eligible to borrow
under the proposed Bank loan (Section 2.03(d) of the draft Loan Agreement);
in particular, the utility in question would need to remain current in pay--
ments to FEN under all loans from the entity (para. 69), and ICEL and CORELCA
would need to fulfill certain conditions precedent to their participation in
any of the external financing to be provided under the project (para. 63).
Onlending terms of sub-loans will be calculated upon the basis of full cost
recovery by FEN on the Bank and B-loans, and the foreign exchange risk will
be borne by the utilities. Sub-loans financed with the proceeds of the Bank
and B-loans will be denominated in dollars equivalent to the various curren-
cies in which the principal of the loans would be payable, and repayable in
the peso equivalent of these various currencies. Interest rate, fees and



- 23 -
terms of the sub-loans are proposed to be a blend of the terms of the Bank
and cofinancing loans, plus a 0.5% spread over the interest rate; maximum
sub-loan term would be 15 years, including a 4-year grace period (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The          -1* t^lume of in-progress and
future electricity investments calls for the long-term maturities proposed.
FEN will enter into satisfactory sub-loan agreements wit each sub-borrower
(Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement Under the Bank Loan
61.       Most contracts to be financed would have been let in advance of
Board presentation. As stated above, retroactive financing, from January 1,
1983, would be limited to US$29 million of the aggregate Bank loan and its
financial share of the cofinancing loan. Under the proposed loan, sub-loan
proceeds will be disbursed against contracts for goods and civil works that
have been procured through international competitive bidding, in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The Bank's proposed share of the B-loans would be sub-
ject to the same procurement criteria as the Bank loan, and the commercial
lenders' share would follow procurement norms of the Bank, IDB, KfW or other
institutional lenders in the case of subprojects partly financed by these
entities, and local procedures of the Government--which are satisfactory to
the Bank--in the remaining cases.   The approximately 18 man-months of
consultant services to be engaged by FEN will be obtained according to Bank
guidelines; 100% of foreign expenditures, and 50% of local, would be
financed.
62.       Loan proceeds would be disbursed into a dollar-denominated revol-
ving fund in BR to be established by FEN, solely for the purposes of the pro-
ject. The Bank would make an initial deposit into the fund of US$50 million,
equivalent to estimated sub-loan disbursements during the first 90-day period
after loan effectiveness. Disbursements from the special account would be
made for eligible expenditures under each approved sub-loan. Special account
replenishment of the dollar equivalent amount of disbursements from that
account would be made upon receipt of withdrawal applications from FEN,
except that after disbursement of a total US$100 million, the Bank would
begin to recuperate the initial deposit. These applications would be under a
certified statement of expenditures by the sub-borrower concerned. Documen-
tation for these expenditures would be retained by FEN and available for
review by the Bank at all times (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).   Disbursements are estimated at US$100 million in 1984 and US$70
million in 1985. In addition to annual external auditing of FEN (para. 67),
the revolving fund account will be audited annually by independent, external
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02(a) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The Closing Date of the loan would be December 31, 1986.
Loan Structure
63.       In addition to a draft Loan Agreement with FEN and a draft
Guarantee Agreement with the Republic, the loan documentation includes a
draft Power Financing Agreement between FEN and ISA, EEEB, EPM, CVC, CORELCA
and ICEL which establishes the general subloan terms and conditions.
Further, in this draft Agreement, the utilities reconfirm the relevant



- 24 -
financial performance covenants of the Guavio loan in respect of rate of
return on annually revalued assets and internal cash generation.  The Agree-
ment also provides for a capital expenditure limitation (para. 41), and the
standard consultation clause on debt service coverage (Sections 4.03-4.06 of
the draft Power Financing Agreement). In the case of ICEL, for which it has
not been possible to establish financial targets or even a reasonable finan-
cial forecast, (para. 64) and in the case of CORELCA, they would be eligible
to receive proceeds from the proposed Bank and cofinancing B-loans only after
preparation by November 30, 1984, of Government--endorsed investment and
financing programs, satisfactory to the Bank. For each company, these pro-
grams should cover the years 1984-87, plus the additional years during which
the proposed La Miel (ICEL) and Urra (CORELCA) power generation projects
would be carried out. The programs would be accompanied by a Government com-
mitment to take all actions necessary, including timely provision of funds,
to enable ICEL and CORELCA to carry out the programs, as well as to service
any sub-loans which they may receive from the proposed external loans
(Section 3.11 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). In the event that a plan
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank would not materialize by the date
mentioned above, the company involved would become ineligible to borrow under
the loans, and the approximately US$40 million of total Bank and B-loan pro-
ceeds that would be held in abeyance for them until that time would be com-
mitted to priority ongoing projects of other companies (Section 2.03(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the Government would: (a) by
December 31, 1984, establish in ICEL adequately staffed Financial and
Operations Departments; and (b) cause ICEL to caLrry out, by December 31, 1984
a study to determine the value of its assets (Section 3.12 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Additionally, ISA would participate in the annual
review of the power sector's investment program and financing strategy, in a
financial study to be carried out by FEN, and irL the design of an appropriate
construction price index for the sector (paras. 36 and 65-66, and Sections
5.01-5.03 of the draft Power Financing Agreement).  Any failure by the
parties to the Power Financing Agreement would constitute an event of suspen-
sion under the Loan Agreement (Section 5.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Outlook of the Power Sector
64.       Based upon the scaled-down National Power Expansion Program, the
sector's total 1983-87 investmLent program, which is contingent upon, inter
alia,, financing availabilities (para. 41), amounts to Col$771.4 billion
(US$7.6 billion), of which 47% corresponds to ongoing works.  The program in-
cludes construction, interest during construction and working capital in-
creases. The sector's net internal cash generation would finance 19% of the
total; national budget contributions and connection charges 10%; and borrow-
ings 60%, of which 12 percentage points corresponds to existing loans, 45
percentage points to future loans, and 4% to the proposed Bank and cofinanc-
ing :Loans. The remaining Col$79.5 billion (US$785 million), or 10%, is the
estirmated financing gap. This scenario is distorted by the heavy deficits
forecast by CORELCA and ICEL, in contrast with an adequate picture of the
four remaining companies (para. 63). (Section V of Annex III summarizes the
utilities' performance under existing financial covenants.) In fact, one of
the strong features of ISA, EEEB, EPM and CVC is their low debt/equity
ratios. Therefore, if their performance targets - sales, tariffs and operat-
ing expenses - are met, they would be able to increase their indebtedness to
the levels in their forecasts without jeopardizing their financial
situaitions.



- 25 -
65.       In light of the magnitude of the investment program and financing
uncertainties, tariffs, revenue efficiency and financing strategy will
require concerted, periodic analysis (para. 41). FEN is about to carry out a
study on sector finances and formulate a proposed financing strategy consi-
dering alternative scenarios. The study would be completed by September 15,
1984 and would be discussed with the Government, ISA and the Bank. ISA would
coordinate with FEN in its preparation and, together with its shareholders,
give all necessary assistance. This exercise will be repeated annually by
FEN (paras. 36, 69 and Section 4.13 of the draft Loan Agreement, Sections
5.01 and 5.02 of the draft Power Financing Agreement and Sections 3.05 and
3.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
66.       Since 1977, Bank loans to the power sector have provided for annual
asset revaluation based upon changes in the consumer price index as a proxy
for the replacement value of assets in operation and construction, and to
project operating and local investment costs. ISA has demonstrated that an
index based on civil works construction in the San Carlos Hydro Project
during 1977-82 is 7% per annum higher than the consumer price index, and 32%
accumulated for the period. The Government, with assistance from ISA would
design an appropriate price index for use by the electric utilities. After
review and comment by the Bank, an agreed index would be computed and pub-
lished quarterly, starting in January 1985 (Section 3.06 of the draft Guaranr-
tee Agreement).
Financial Outlook of FEN
67.       FEN is in process of organizing and computerizing its internal
accounting and auditi-ng functions. Initial evidence of its work is posi-
tive. FEN has confirmed that systems compatible with sound principles will
be maintained. FEN will engage the services of independent, external audit-
ors satisfactory to the Bank, in line with the usual Bank requirements
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       FEN has four main sources of funds:  its own capital, official
funds, resources obtained from the domestic (paras. 50-52) and external capi-
tal markets, and retained earnings. FEN's capital sets the ceiling to the
entity's obligations with the public which, as set out in its Bylaws, may not
exceed 20 times its paid-in capital plus legal reserves. To protect its
capital from being eroded by inflation and to enable it to lend to the power
companies at reasonable rates, legislation has been enacted to exempt FEN's
income from taxation. FEN will annually capitalize its profits (Section 3.14
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). FEN's actual and projected net worth
through 1987 is projected to increase from Col$10,148 million in 1982 to
Col$30,595 million in 1987, or about 25% per annum on average. FEN's loans
to the utilities are projected to increase from Col$16,791 million in 1983 to
Col$185,613 million net of repayments in 1987. Of total lending estimated
over this period, the A and B-loan proceeds each represent about 12%. Provi-
sion for liquidity represents the other main use of funds during the period,
rising from Col$ 1,175 million in 1983 to Col$ 10,790 million in 1987.  Outlays
for fixed and other assets and debt amortization would amount to Col$1,033
aillion, net of short-term funds mobilized from local investors which are
continuously rolled over.  The only debt projected to amortize during the
period is from official sources (see below) and is amortized over 25 years.



- 26 -
FEN's sources during the 5-year period would comprise retained earnings,
Col$19,944 million; local investors, rising from an estimated Col$8,500
million in 1983 to a total Col$62,900 million outstanding by 1987; external
borrowings, Col$91,854 million; official funds, Col$11,391 million; repay-
ments of principal by borrowing utilities, Col$51,793 million; and capital
resources, Col$503 million.
69.        In view of the importance of the official funds to FEN's sources of
financing, adverse changes in the statutory provision for them would not be
made (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). FEN's liquidity would
need to be monitored carefully given the entity's reliance upon term trans-
formation and the risk of collection delays. Thus, FEN will maintain at all
times a liquidity buffer equivalent to not less than two months of estimated
annual expenses plus one month of the principal amount that would become due
and payable to local investors during the year; these estimates would be
agreed during the annual review discussed below (Section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement). FEN has a:Lso confirmed that it will not approve new lending
to any borrower which is in default under any existing loan authorized by FEN
either as a direct or rediscounted loan (Section 4.14 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Additionally, FEN would maintain a debt-equity ratio, including
all indebtedness, that would not exceed 7:1 (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
70.       The proposed project will assist Colombia to maintain the construc-
tion rhythm of ongoing electricity development projects which will supply the
el,ectric energy needed to facilitate growth of those industrial and commer-
cial activities which currently use it, as well as help supply electricity to
a larger segment of the country's population, only 54% of which now have
access to it.  The participation of the international capital market is being
en:Listed in this endeavor. The support provided for the development of FEN
is expected to enhance power sector financial management, in addition to
buttressing the entity's ability to mobilize substantial investment financing
needed by the power utilities.
71.       A return on investment for the project has not been quantified.
However, it has been established that the projects which are prospective sub-
loan candidates for Bank financing would have higher internal rates of return
than the 13%-15% estimated at the time of original Bank appraisal. Tariffs
(the proxy for benefits) have increased more rapidly than projected, while
average costs are approximately the same. Further, for all hydroelectric
facilities included under the project, representing about 80% of project
costs, the average cost remains a low US$700 per kW installed. Subtrans-
mission and distribution facilities would represent the least-cost means of
bringing electricity service to the final consumer. There is a risk that the
local currency share of investments may not be available in a timely manner.
However, the expected internal cash generation of the four major utilities,
the measures already taken by the Colombian authorities to mobilize savings,
as well as future actions that have been agreed should enable project
financing to materialize as scheduled. There is another risk, which is
attendant mainly upon FEN's ability to fulfill its role as a development
banking institution. By virtue of its financial significance, there may be
pressures brought to bear upon its decisions. However, the establishment of



- 27 -
sound lending and operating criteria, the support provided for its monitoring
and advisory role and the broad-based composition of its Board and Credit
Committee--as spelled out in the entity's Bylaws--together with the
agreements reached with the Government and the power utilities on the
conditions under which new projects would be initiated, should help minimize
this risk.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between FEN and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, the draft
Power Financing Agreement between FEN and ISA, EEEB, EPM, CVC, OORELCA and
ICEL, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. An additional condition of effectiveness would be the assignment of a
short-term borrowing quota to FEN by BR (para. 50).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Bank loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
75.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 8, 1984



- 28 -                                         Ann.ex 1
Page i of 5
T A B L E 3A
COLCIEIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COL0MBEIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
,.bRECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCE
_e,o-       1970'   ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB              ELtROPE
AR   (TOSAND SQ. DI)
TOTAL                              1t38.9       1138.9       1138.9
AGRICULTURAL                         350.5       350.5        356.5
G0P PER CAPITA (US$)                    270.0       440.0       1380.0             2088.2                    2453.6
ENERGY COHNSUOPrIO PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       519.0       730.0       970.0              1407.6                    1580.8
PoPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   15754.0      21266.0     26425.0
URBAN POPULATION (7. OF TOTAL)        48.2        59.8         64.4               65.9                      47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               38.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                62.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2110
POPULATION DENSITY                                                                                                                              -&
PER SQ. aM.                         13.8        18.7        22.7                35.6                      82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              44.9        60.7         72.6               93.2                     157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           46.8        46.2         36.4               40.1                      31.9
15-64 YRS                           50.3        51.1        60.2                55.8                      60.9
65 AND ABOVE                         2.9         2.8         3.4                 4.1                       7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (7)
TOTAL                                3.1         3.0          2.0                2.3                       1.6
URBAN                                5.7         5.2         2.6                 3.7                       3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          46.7        38.4        29.4                31.5                      25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          15.8        10.7          7.7                8.1                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3         2.6          1.8                2.0                       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..       115.4       192.8
USERS (%, OF hARRIED WOIEN)           ..        34.0        46.0/c
FO0 AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        100.0        99.0       124.0               113.0                     108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (; OF REQUIR5MENTS)        98.0        89.0       108.0               111.3                     129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            54.0        48.0        55.0                67.9                      92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0        24.0        25.0/d              34.1                      34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           14.0         7.1          3.5                5.3                      10.4
HiELTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         53.1        58.9         63.3               64.6                      67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       103.0         77.0        55.1                62.6                      71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               30.0/e      63.0         64.0/f             64.8
URBAN                               54.97;1     88.0         73.07              77.8
RURAL                                6.871      28.0         46.071             44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
X OF POPLULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        47.0        44.4/f              54.6
URBAN                                 ..        75.0        60.07T              69.8
RURAL                                            8.0         14.0/f             29.8                         -
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2640.0      2180.0      1920.0/d            1776.0                    1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             4220.Oj     730.0      1220.077            1012.2                     762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              360.0       450.0        600.0/d            477.0                     334.0
URBAN                                 ..       380.0       490.071             667.5                     216.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..           ..             1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        22.9         29.8/d             27.2                      20.0
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  *         5.7/h
URBAN                                 ..         5.57W
RURAL                                 ..         5. 97W
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                            1.8/h
URBAN                                 ..         t.67          ..
RURAL                                 ..         2.47W
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               47.0/e      58.1/h         ..
URBAN                               8 3. o7-    8 7. 57W
EURTAL                               8.1e       13.2/h         ..
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _      _     _     _      _     _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _     _ - -_ -_   _ _ -_ _ -_ - -_ - -_ -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ _ -_ _ -_ _ _ - -_ - -_ - -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ _ -



- 29 -
Annex I
T A B L E  3A                               Page  2  of  5
COLOMBIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCTOME
1960/b      1970/b  ESTIMATE/b    LAT. AMERICA 4 CARIB             EUROPE
EDUIICATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    77.0       108.0       128.0               105.0                    102.2
MALE                    77.0       107.0       127.0               106.3                    107.2
FEMALE                  77.0       110.0       130.0               103.6                     97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   12.0        25.0        46.0                40.0                     56.5
MALE                    13.0        25.0        43.0                38.6                     63.4
FEMALE                  11.0        24.0        49.0                41.2                     48.9
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)          30.8/i      20.2         21.61d             34.0                     22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATI0
PRIMARY                            38.0        38.0        31.0                30.7                     24.7
SECONDARY                          11.0        17.0        20.0                16.7                     22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)              63.0        80.8/h      81.0                79.5                     69.7
CONSBlPrION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           5.7        11.2         18.6/d             45.6                     52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP        125.1       104.3        116.3              228.2                    165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             9.5        38.1         86.9              108.3                    124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUL.ATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             50.0           ..        50.2               64.1                     96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..          ..         2.9                 2.9                      2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          4727.0      6353.0      8982.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   19.2        24.8         24.7               24.8                     34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.4        37.9        25.8                31.3                     40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2        21.0        21.2                23.9                     23.4
PARTICIPATTON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.0        29.9         34.0               31.3                     42.0
MALE                               48.8        45.1         51.i               49.8                     55.2
FEMALE                             11.5        14.8         16.8               14.8                     29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.7         1.6         1.2                 1.4                      0.9
INCQ4E DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           41.2/e,j    31.9/
HIGHESt 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS          67.7/e,j    60.1/j
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            2 l/e j     3.5/.
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            6:8Z8    10.17.
pOVERTY TARGeT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..        214.0/d            289.8
RURAL                                ..          ..        197./d             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       267.0/d             519.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       122.0/d             372.1                    409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                ..          ..         34.0/d
RURAL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1978; /d 1977; /e 1964; /f 1976; /g 1962; /8h 1973; /i Including teacher training at the third level; /j Economically
active population.
May 1983



- 30 -                                                     Annexi1
Page 3 of 5
OE?FItofIONi Or SOCIAL .ItolAfORP
describe orda-  of  iantd,ltdic-te  re,,ds, and  c                    --cri    etin ..J.r difterarce  b..ee.. otrs
The pefeetos grups are Ih,f  aecutygopo  h   ujctoutysd~jtcutygoprc s-Ife, ItKigher a--rge mou-s  tiht the  onr  tru f the
scobjet coutry (cceptfor 'lgo  Ioose"Illfpres'gop afee"ide  ttstrf    Ice and fiddle Elast  is bhoser b--aerfttrctg- so-i-r-u1eura
Totl   Tglurac I         nti, conyileing land area end inla-d atr    1960,                ~            3iih'hilldfrasdclshc   telset   e
ogiutrlE......teoicoocf sn            -utdtes.po....ilyctersnn   0`-linfaelera                                     Paan-as   a           dietaonuse  ly, pacIaltusa
191  n  ls  Ot,                                                                             oruato_pa  oata 1d    onl,uran  ad  ut-iPoIltio    ttl
en   Ei AIT   01   m    e   uio  iiae  a   crn   trnrpies                                         olalei   ulcan   rnt  gnrledepcate  fsta   o
can-td  yst  occrao   etopn  u    lac  Otat_0_fil_at_l;                                    rhbltar         I) ceners Id  pta  ae   aitihetspo   nrtyetye
lobe. ' 1 ly0 an   ff  -aa          hyu   etnOtrplin    eolsaos  rudn rdi aS   utd
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cr n o Onua.Orlhsitl  ceo,iouehat n
ENERGY COtNSUMP'TIOt PEP CAPITA -idulaprn    oaatito   rannladcl  'nrantpreetgysafoO     haoa p(hutp hf a--dloe
hroreegjoltlglageelot   ooa   a   odhdo,nceruatot,out  ndoe    r.eihfarl-alnaosoeton
andgeohaocieleorlOt) I  blopaso  fcoo  eqcolrn  co  n cot;prolor, i etedrage  f cdlal  aclfoee.Potsttla icl eOhae
Ibb, 111,an  190 dte                                           cean  oiohoa  ooluo  bOepnicial(genra  na plal -            ,_an  rural        l
"Y "%.I'  -d~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~naycl,cclrunlcptatoad olndaentyett
do,lrJc                                                                                                                                 .......TolTCOeulce   osiai  r   ncue  ony hcde  ttl
Icta  rourlc I-erlfuadl-d   fJl   ;iO,11,ad10                                                      atsoecoOaiu   a       oa                   nc Phe Yo aesIone  toot dta, a l
ancncPuitltti-   Oh   lollYT , (IooO Ond den                  19neragr .    .. hltthuofllproo    aruind-rtl.cthnndua
cutul popolatlon by age and arc an.c b oeenroliy 1   at,c frtiic                      is  ouehld  fo pocuciat% icaPl lpnnyoaea.            -
Prooocnpraoteo  fr  onclly rnrcoerco o'treeOctu~nularofpartons                                   .d~ poro -1na.ra.adurlcrtnse
lrotseasoinlofoccpncanyaolntfnnnueineliooucry'yan                  trtnonuennnooolluran,tdrualocoyldnooetcoby
capta  ocoo  oco, ad  osee lft  opnotcy  caililogan  1.       dollign   rapenonay. ban lugatonlod  no-ptsd ettanlotreean
fen. TE pntone l  don frnlc   oe  1ohu   hreIolInooco   ac
aeucnurcininerlOnyooriognoSinnslclncatnl                                               naoilonilcIrnocnonlne-oa.ra.rrr
P  lacn--ap,.enfononn.    Cooucptbntinlocorrlelnrnoadelnelhlornrolon                                                                                      oresspretg
donlcnacorhrroyluncotn  lacri of unit nc neyrod unchon run, ciPoaoacol-nu,sAl btodl lh dgul o-One   touy  sole ana fr le
roo  tootaicnfaoennylots   torfocotl.  Otcnnnnarytnollcnnfoltcoanhoytoanltolunyenrnngsatceprnlh
youaiouocsettando.th   clto   h  cntcrnuacr-Iirn   ooo-g  crltuc;nrslylnldtchlrnagdbi
istlaufho   opoatin c  th  your lo ..n   h   aoo   occ   fyauhnujtodtnd  yrr   tgn   fptayeooln   o
1061,  OfO,  nd ohydana                                                       pcllnoalyt In    dnonu-o;  o1opocec
yen cu.  a. ngtinlnunccIntO - cnscontoas obon  lotaiholtou   [i,,onrLlyiltned
on'ly  Kl bOL"h   -anlbdoa.oc-dnccroln                                                                                 ..onn.cctonanlicoiolntiui
yoouuooo or hruone  penonr   - filcnnh-I  ytro)  acolo-tg   (I-             udo- Zur    1- ocftrl,  nncfl'rcfo   ruttait.  0rtltsed
poclclnefo  150hI   lhCfP  ad  01-01,                                                     annurn   c    aduc yulac_n  c               ,dIcii cor  in  con.
yronpnycerlN;  1060, 0910, and_f-fi darn.                                                                                                                 d ondlb"";
Inud..cPat(e.n.. nl-cruldonao  oouado   i-ou                                             atnc   or     r   hunn   uuu..l-Ptootconoorli
populolon  lihI  lol, and 12   an.Cnoeoic   ot  hnruhfetotcnldoucuann                                                                                        faIe   n
Grs   ardntonic-oognohnfaEnroonncl   rnnni1tron                                                                    n
he   oclrycdolerrodI   i   rolenoyoenac-yn  O                                         adccccedI mnoon   oylno)-Al  ye   frocur   o   ai
lrcIcc  ata  ocal  fityaracngr  odnginlch  ll,  ndhoaoaco1ocu   yh  ncr  cotud  fyoolcun t--dt  n
uneto       196d-0rtp   c  ffo197          a'nonrc-ccn -dcooon,                                                                  ,-          ionh,   -o  i
tnnncnSe,ncnlnc.n.ncnttu.n.                       'Inann)~~~~n  .t..<c..O       ___              tin"' -SOuOccOuOOcr."tiuc
an0ttu     60nldoo    uo9ropao  yrn.19ont8inn 01-00 0                                        don-ny cu  -lc (coo
oopnnne,undofangettnsnoo    f toepliah,,rnalee,sd,                                           oynai    00   fcnlflau
PooreetorrIoeae    y  ALhad  rphtolpol  edtdn-oto                                                     Ico  otrcoo      atnfncI  onn,  ooo  on  n   n
an honarhld  Irorl  1961-iS,1011 and[hill tot.                                      and clot count   unon codpat 00 ce.-tnotgeof,tocal  ot onhfcoc; (fcc
ta   cctaorl  o   cuooItatco   e;     nnoocoio  o   otEl c1,  nod lO   doc
nIf iyrrofoo       EeJay    teeylofoidfndehc.rnlnounoenrot-na.at    nlcl-etoptoo
Ouquireteto  tur al noinonlt ttiatltned  by 010 yrocfr fcc ciinun                   cotcltyocoaocccnycntd, totol,na-, -nt  inale  bor torca.
t-l ioaoeofhrnc,,aoonlyc                          aool_atnacuin                                     erotcn   fc-loiunfti    -nooIntaagnop tncy
ecseerotn, f  hiO   cr as  toidteonnn   ocri.   netlOG,100  Ad  (8   oc.   nei  r  bto  o   10 toninianchan.
ar   onrthnmoto  1   ratohtnl proeh   an   0mn                                ,lcco        eacoutnoti    cuoln   rcIn    ieted
ol anial procin a  en corait  on oh  oct1, ynoeooh i  ml innon  Sn ettnulco   rt trt natinal efnnet
Ttoduld  othnt;[6-f,ltuoloac.hontcaadnyclonnofprlnnono    ed(adcoo
rernalia  nocon turlyrrtancalancoio-rrciontoyloufccnoft cta.  utoronn,
doelEtc frc  nna,   o- uo,Incaoynda1-h-t  l, n                            f
fdaa                                                                                          ONcCIoI hllt
EtIlse l-lahaeenOoodIdni   otn.rloeacnPcchinElanl,ocIuoontuoonlPnlrrnntn
a0egrooyl'l years ,conbildron  lnohitatc  gro..y;forncoo  deor'.cyung     porooni ,nioitrnolh  ocrorot .ycoreoclhyonnr-tn ,aooycoreiolhyoroont of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ci-Ei-1-   AttI ....
Oconttte daa daniro  fre lif  tuflr; 1106, IbI  and   11 (d luo.hcooic
p icIni                                                                            flOitItO OcailnI I doff
...a. taoA   (oOItrlncrdndhrfoarolfreinn                                                          hfolonctidoaonrnpocnctocotfnrl   lci,n
yeatofag     "oncoolulRoh;lt,lfadolua                                                             Aleolot             I'llntnotidulcconunoo  tnibrorhc-nno
Ocon o  nTodaerI ercn  o  pyncoco  -toal oio,  nlrual-nonoinuly  douao  to   yoto_tnic  nn-cuEr_urrrnc t_n
hcateofyrnlelttao,ofsr,AOaualihrnnbocntrtf                                                 fudlo
aancnupclluoclooortuordurfaonaceaorccreacdhuthaclrnccfietio  hOurlilnncr  kccl(flpcnaclnl-uranitdurol
00  hatTrt pocote   bnrilo, nrfgt,an      Oc01cricli pcony  coan  oo   It_t- -'clr  of a                -conage ro nrn
tuiayrloacretoe  fhcroenirooltoa            cn                         ranlnncct--               noy       lbnloltoiecr                  frnld
d.cncnreuup  bllcfnnn6i    9nhopt[ntdc'mntaloeon                                            lcnnlou-tdinaott-n -n.. onno   nf  uotc ti.brr
hots                                d18dL. lnrlrorto-lacuacliyyhttehnsicdodrrl   ron  cfooatnchnnr-olonr   atlt
eeh..fn..        uthl      .n . fa.tnprnlfctyruporconnotoEyannof                                 foo
cot nay In fetnhbn0  the teellp' tearer ~ ~      ~         l
to fo hrch  ccpsa(oreooypualnltcaIuho,n
Orioet  nd  icla -d neoluf-t  Ao_  1061;191-517



Population: 26,965,0fl0 (mid-1982)                                                       - 31 -                                                             ANwEX1 o
G   Per Capit: l=1,470 (1962) a/                                                                                                                            Psge 4 of 5
hont (nilLjoc t3C                  Aenra* A--l inrenw (,                          5hare Of GIP at Market Pri^Ce  (I)
at arret priee)                   (at onaetant 1970 priree)                             (at current pnces)
1983      19f1 b/    1982 b/    t983 t/   1960-70    1970-75   1975-83   1960         1970       1975      1980       1981      1982       1983
EATI06AL AOXI5M
Groes dacetic proennt c/        33,736      37,325     39,669      39,046      5.3        6.2        4.3     103.0      103.      103.0      103.0      103.0    tOO.O       103.0
Agriculture                    8,311       a,870      9,232       9,140      3.5        5.2        3.4      34.1       29.6      29.3       27.6       26.9      26.4       25.3
Didutry                        9,253      10,2m8     10,989       8,427      6.2        6.5        2.9      25.7       26.6      28.3       30.7      31.0       31.4       23.4
Services                      12,577      13.892     14,757      18,501      5.9        7.2       5.1       40.2       44.3      42.4       41.7      42.1       42.2      51.3
Ccnnptial                       25,189      23,691     31,034      30,800      5.4        6.6        4.3      79.4       80.t1     81.2       74.7      76.9       78.2      78.9
Grosa Invesanent                 8,A9       10,147     10,224       9,245      5.1        1.3       7.6       20.5       22.0      17.8       25.2      27.2       25.8       23.7
E6ports of goods and Nl8         5,677       4,606      4,679       3,581      3.1         .3        1.1      15.6       14.2      15.5       16.8      12.3       11.8        9.2
Imports of goods anl NES         5,494      6,078       6,444       4,580      4.3        0.8       7.1       15.5      16.2       14.6       16.3      16.3       16.2       11.7
I,roes national savnuq           8,625      8,439       7,9f1       7,479      5.2        5.6       3.6       19.4       18.0      16.8       25.6      22.7       20.1      19.2
C.posjttnn of NerdWarise Trade (%)
(at current Zoicea)
1975-82   1960      1970       1975       1982      1981        982
91 SE0888D    MAIE
Menrandi. Exorts (OEB)           4,372       3,458      3,399                  3.3        6.1        1.9     103.0      103.0       103.0     103.0     1030      100.0
Maior pri-aty                  2,92S       1,959      2,056                  2.8        1.4        3.3      72.5       72.1      57.2       70.0      56.7       60.5
major oenfacturee                837         899        901                   -        23.5        5.8        -        10.5      22.5       19.1       26.0      24.5
Other                            607         6C0        442                   -         4.1      -7.8         -        17.4      20.3       13.9      17.3       13.0
Merdxrdise tmonrto (CIF)         4,663       5,199      5,418                  3.5        2.1       9.9        2.0      1.0       103.0      1.60    103.0       01.0
Food                             307         331        324                 10.0        6.1       14.8       2.4        5.1       6.0        6.6       6.4        5.9
Fetroleum                        563         724        657                -21.4       13.0       46.5       2.0         -        1.0       12.1       13.9      12.0
madinery and  ui-Pnt           1,584       1,831      2,016                  5.2       -4.1       11.6      42.7       43.6      36.1       34.0      35.2       36.8
Other                          2,279       2,313      2,481                  1.8        5.6       8.5       52.9       51.3      56.9       47.4      44.5       45.3
1974       1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        190       198 b/   1982 b/   1983 b/
PRICB3 Am  mm89 TE   OF 8617 9
GDP deflator                              27.6       20.8        23.6       28.3        17.1       24.1          .1       24.4      23.3       19.9
Etdan,g rate                              26.1       30.9        34.7       36.8        39.1       42.6        47.3       54.5       64.1      78.9
Eaort price itd.                         246.6      252.5       339.8      577.9       552.2      608.3       773.6      832.0   1,045.6   1,257.4
lm8rt price irtex                       216.9      275.1       330.2      375.9       430.0      518.2       621.1      750.5      99.0   1,O94.7
Ten,a of trade index                     113.7       91.8       118.1      153.7       128.4       117.4      124.6       110.9     106.0      114.9
1970       1975       1981 Z/
PUB[IC FAlWCE e/
Curient rarenJe                                                             10.6        11.2        12.9
Oarrent  ertttore                                                            5.7         7.1        9.1
spa        (-) or deficit (-)                                                4.9         4.1         3.8
Capital exponditure                                                          1.8         4.6         4-5
Fore2ox fimncixg f/                                                          3.3         3.1         2.3
1960.70    1970-75     1975-83
OT3EE I11ICATO
GE2P groath rate (%)                                                        5.10        6.40       4.13
Gt pFer apitagwt  rate (.0                                                  2.00        4.00       2.17
9en   c eaaptiOn grornt rate (                                              5.03        4.          4.00
ICo   h/                                                                    3.54        3.70       7.46
Argiioai saevioa rate i/                                                    0.13        0.14       0.16
Imort ela5ticirw                                                             1.77       0.12        1.77
a/ World Bae* Atle Mettnd.
h/ Batited.
hi At nraet Frires:   apet sre expragd at factor coat and will not add bee   of cenluiaon of net indiret t8Kee ant auat'dice.
d/ IdieB bsed ona t1970103.
;/ Central 3avaonat.
f/ Grose dois      ts  of eantrl loBem t the entire publio aeetor.
j  bIrcludes Social Securiw ant Yado  Vial.
bh,/   gged cne  yeEr.
iJ Ixrut to gre daceetic m-ViDgs/inoret to gSCe d-aeetic irodent-
Fsbrasry 28, 1964
OIolrd,ia  Division



-32 
Popalation: 26,965,0D0 (mid-1992)                                 BEL        OF PAMfS, E  lL  CAPITAL MI) ANDM )                                          1X I
(NP Per Capita: US$1,470 a/                                               (illion 15$ at current (rices)                                                  Page 5 of 5
Prelisinay
Actual                                          Estimate             Projected
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      198D    1981 b/  1992 ti   198           1984      1985      1986
B1N.   OF PAYIII S
Dtports of goods and nri-factor services        1,858     2,165     2,805    3,443     4,039     4,658     5,676     4,606     4,683     4,135       4,651     5,175    6,057
ImnPrts of wods aid  on-factor aervices         2,072     2,030     2,321    2,762     3,425     3,939     5,494     6,078     6,444     5,552       5,457     6,031    6,621
Rsource Balance                                    -214       135       484      681       614       719       183   -1 472   -1 764   -1 417           -806     -856      -564
Net factor paypeits                              -1        -         -313     -27T      -301       Z55       -0    -42         -701    -9r2         41,113    -1,9S     3-14
Net trasufers                                      22        30        39        40       44        98       164       242       223       227         230       234      239
Current Account Balame                             -384       -98      210       449       357       562       136    1658   -2,242    -2,162         1689   -1,817         0
Net direct forei4ap inv.esait                        36        32        14       43        67       104        52       228       268       193         200      350       350
Meilum- and lor,-tem lmsm  (net)                    207       261       102       196       47       6C9       692     1,433     1,200       410         539     1,064     1,323
to publk sector                                  (182)    (264)    (113)    (199)        (80)    (564)    (777)  (1,079)  (1,096)    (471)           (664)    (964)  (1,123)
to private sector                                 (25)      (-3)    (-11)       (-3)     (-33)     (45)    (-85)    (354)    (104)    (-61)          (-125)    (100)    (Z)
Other capital                                      -223      -56        236      164       139       -38       214       137         1      -250        -250       24        24
Capital Accaunt salance                              20       237       352      403       253       675       958    1,798    1,469         350         489     1,438    1,697
Cnge in Reerves (-  increase)                       364      -139      -562      -852     -610 -l1,27   -1,094          -140       773     1,812       1,200       379     -137
Net international reserves (official)               152       547    1,166      1,830    2,482     4,106     5,416     5,630    4,891      3,079       1,879     1,500     1,637
Resers as mxtits of inports                         0.9       3.2       6.0       8.0       8.7     12.5      11.8      11.1       9.1       6.7         4.1       3.0       3.0
G6SS DISNA9U21S d/
Official grants                                    -         -         -         -
Gross disbursements of HLT lans                   376       387       257       375      299       972     1,027     1,335     1,430
oncessianal                                        47        42        43       25        61        30        46        53        48
Bilateral                                       (45)      (40)      (40)      (19)     (55)      (2S)       (9)      (22)      (18)
IDA                                              ( )          (        )  (              H        ( .)      ( )          (      H 
Other maltilateral                               (2)       (2)       (3)       (6)       (6)      (S)      (37)      (31)      (30)
%n-concessional                                   329       345      214       350       238       936       981     1,282     1,382
Offical expDrt credits                          (19)      (15)       (1)       (7)       (8)     (10)      (98)      (32)    (162)
lBPD                                            (85)    (105)       (75)     (85)      (82)    (139)    (218)    (251)    (277)
otlar multilateral                              (24)      (20)      (27)      (31)     (33)      (36)      (44)      (75)      (64)
Private                                        (201)    (205)    (111)    (227)    (1LS)    (751)    (621)    (924)    (879)
EKNAIL 1R  (end of period) dl
Debt outstanding ad dishiraeI                   2,138     2,372     2,472    2,692     2,809     3,374     4,078     5,109     6,211
Official                                      1,628     1,728     1,794     1,870     1,996    2,115     2,361     2,599     2,992
IBRD                                         (562)    (634)    (672)    (716)    (751)    (838)    (991)  (1,165)  (1,346)
Ink                                           (73)      (22)      (22)      (22)     (22)      (22)      (21)      (21)      (20)
Other                                      (1,043)  (1,072)  (1,100)  (1,132)  (1,223)  (1,255)  (1,349)   (1,413)   (1,626)
Private                                         510       644       678      822       813     1,259     1,717     2,510     3,219
Urdisbured Debt                                   680       660       935    1,020     1,527     1,925     2,592     2,922    3,501
DOT SVIC d/
Total debt servic ps yt                           297       239       269      315       387       636       528       664       911
of .tIch interest                               103       115       125      139       168       22B       278       4C8       577
Payimts as X ex,prta of 8>ods and
all services                                   15.3      10.7       9.4       9.0      9.3      12.9       8.6      12.6      17.6
Payqmts as I GP                                   2.4       1.8       1.8       1.6      1.7       2.3       1.6       1.8       2.3
Average interest rate n new loa  (2)              7.4       7.5       6.7       7.3       7.9     10.1      13.3      12.0      10.6
Official                                       (6.2)    (6.3)    (5.6)    (7.3)    (7.6)    (7.7)         (8.8)    (7.6)    (9.3)
Private                                        (8.4)     (8.3)     (7.6)     (7.4)    (8.6)    (11.8)    (15.7)   (14.0)   (12.9)
Average sraturity oi now loom (years)            16.0      15.3      14.9      16.2      14.3      13.0     14.6      12.9      14.6
Official                                      (22.7)   (26.3)   (23.5)   (18.4)    (16.5)   (17.1)   (17.7)   (16.8)   (17.1)
private                                       (10.0)    (8.1)    (8.0)    (7.9)    (9.6)    (10.0)   (12.9)   (11.0)    (9.9)
BANKGRP IT    )1  (2) /d
iR  0D3/total WD                                 26.3      26.7      27.2      26.6     26.7      24.8      24.3      22.8      21.7
IB1D diabLajerenta/total gross dishabemes s     22.9      27.4      29.6      22.7     27.4      14.3      21.2      18.8      19.4
IBR3 debt service/total debt service             24.9      32.8     31.9       29.5     28.8      19.5      27.3      24.3      20.9
IDA DOD/total DM                                  1.1       0.9       0.9      0.8       0.8       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.3
IDA disbhraemits/total gress disbursementa             -         -             -         -         -         -         -         -
IDA debt service/tot-al debt service              0.1       0.3       (.2      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
a/  WorLd Bark Atlas  aethed.
b/ Preliminary.
cI Eatimte.
6/ Public and publicly granteed debt
NIarc 6, 1984
6blstbia Division



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1983)
(US$million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                     1,406.2  23.5 1/    --
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture        21.0              6.2
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.         52.0               6.1
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr.  64.0                1.4
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications    58.3              29.4
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways           90.0             12.3
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition          25.0              8.8
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment             24.8             13.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Pewer                126.0             21.8
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power              50.0             11.2
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y          Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena           Export           15.0               5.1
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports           61.0               5.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              84.0              9.3
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             10.1
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       27.9               6.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 72.0             42.9
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       31.0             26.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria                Agriculture Cr.   20.0              14.0
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia E:Lectrica
de Bogota                      Power               87.0              54.1
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                    17.8
1834    1980  Banco de la Republicsk             Industrial Cr.    32.0                 5.3
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   150.0               97.3
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                  125.0             98.4
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                  85.0              77.1
1966    1981  Colombia                           Rural Roads         33.0              23.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Ridrologia                     Irrigation         37.0              33.5
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica                Power               36.0              30.5
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              359 .0            310.3
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio         Watershed
AAmbiente                      Management           9.0               8.0
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                       Railways            77.0              77.0
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional                Highways           152.3             146.5
2174    1.982  Colombia                          Rural Develop-
ment             53.0              52.2
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                      Rural Education   15.0                13.3
2303 1/ 1983  Instituto Colombiano               Agricultureal
Agropecuario                      Research         63.4              63.4
TOTAL                                             3,599.4  23.5
Of which has been repaid                            767.1   3.7
Total now outstanding                             2,832.3  19.8
Amount sold                            51.0
Of which has been repaid               50.5            0.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    2,831.8  19.8
-_          -
Total undisbursed                                                   1,337.7
1/ Not yet effective.



-35-
Annex 1I
Page 3 of 4
1S.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                              Type of                mount in US$ Million
Year                     Obligor                    Business               Loan   Equity   Total
1959            Laminas del Caribe, S.A.            Fiber-board             .50                .50
1960-1965       Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                       Food products         1.98     .08       2.06
1961            Envases Colombianos, S.A.           Metal cans              .70      -         .70
1961-1968       Morfeo-Productos para el
-                Hogar, S.A.                   -Home furniture            .08    .09        .17
1961            Electromanufacturas, S.A.,          Electrical equipment  50         -          50
1962            Corporacion Financiera              Development
Colombiana                          financing             -   2.02        2.02
1962-1963       Corporacion Financiera              Development
Nacional                            financing                  2.04       2.04
1963-1967       Ccopania Coloabiana de              Textiles               1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969         Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970       Corporacion Financiera de           Development
Caldas                              financing             -     .81        .81
1964-1968       Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging             -   1.27       1.27
1966            Almacenes Generales de              Warehousing           1.00       -        1*00
-       Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966            Industria Ganadera                  Livestock              1.00    .58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74      ENKA de Colombia, S.A.              Textiles               5.00   2.61       7.61
1969            Compania de Desarrollo de           Tourism                   -     .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973       Corporacion Financiera del          Development
Norte                               financing             -     .45        .45
1969            Corporacion Financiera del          Development
Valle                               financing             -     .43        .43
1970            Promotora de Hoteles de             Tourism                 .23    .11         .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977       Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                   Tourism                 .80    .24        1.04
1973-1975       Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing                  -      .46        .46
&                        -Ahorro y Vivienda
1974            Cementos Boyaca, S.A.               Cement                1.50       -       1.50
1975            Cementos del Caribe, S.A.           Cement                3.60       -       3.60
1976            Las Brisas                          Mining                6.00       -       6.00
1977            Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.             Utilities            13.00   2.00       15.00
1977            Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material           1.22   1.51        2.73



- 36 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983) (Continued)
Fiscal                                             Type of               Amount In US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                     Leasing               9.00    .17       9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.          Chemicals and
Pietrochemicals  12.15   3.86      16.01
1983            Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing         1.00   0.54       1.54
1984            Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
CtDnstruction
Material          21.91  5.00      26.91
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.            Mining                10.61  1.64      12.25
Total Gross CommitmLents                               93.76  26.07    119.83
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                         61.40   9.59       70.99
Total commitments now held by IFC                       32.36  16.48      48.84
Total undisbursed                                       22.61   7.06      29.67



- 37 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 11 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: FEN/Bank
(c) First presentation to Bank: November 1982
(d) First mission to review project: November 1984"
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: March 7, 1983
(f) Completion of negotations: February 10, 1984
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: May 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, agreement has been reached:
(a)  that the Government, FEN and ISA, together with the Bank, would
review annually and update the financing strategy for the power
sector. This review would take account of annually updated electri-
city demand growth projections and the associated Expansion Program
(paras. 36 and 65); and
(b) that the Government would authorize capital outlays for new electri-
city projects only if the project in question would be economically
justified and there would be available adequate financing that would
not affect negatively the existing financial obligations of the
company(-ies) concerned. Additionally, except for ongoing projects
for which financing is available, the power utilities would undertake
capital expenditures in excess of the value of one percent of net
fixed assets in service only under the two conditions mentioned above
(para. 41);
(c) that changes in FEN's statutory framework which, in the Bank's
opinion, would affect adversely the entity would not be made (paras.
44 and 69);
(d) that FEN will engage consultants and permanent staff in a timely
manner to complement its technical staff capability in the area of
project analysis and monitoring (para. 45);
(e) that, by December 31, 1984, FEN would prepare a plan of action
acceptable to the Government and the Bank to encourage private
investment in medium and long-term instruments of FEN and, promptly
thereafter, the Government would put such plan into effect (para.
51);






- 38 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(f) on annual targets for mobilization of domestic financial savings by
FEN, which targets would be reviewed and updated, as necessary, by
agreement among FEN, the Government and the Bank (para. 52);
(g) with the Government, that all necessary measures on its part would be
taken to provide FEN with adequate access to the domestic capital
market (para. 52);
(h) that FEN's revolving fund accounts in BR will be audited annually by
independent, external auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 62);
(i) with ISA, EEEB, EPM, CVC, ICEL and CORELCA on the onlending terms and
conditions (para. 63);
(j)  that the Government, with the participation of ISA, would prepare an
appropriate price index for the electricity sector. After review and
comment by the Bank, an agreed index would be computed and published
quarterly by the Government, starting in January 1985 (para. 66);
(k) that FEN will engage the services of independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and maintain internal accounting and auditing systems in
accordance with sound principles (para. 67);
(1) that FEN will annually capitalize its profits (para. 68); and
(m)  that FEN will manage its finances in such a manner as to meet the
agreed annual targets (para. 69).
Section IV: Amendments to Prior Agreements
None.
Section V: Power Companies' Performance Under Existing Loan Agreements
The financial performance of ISA, EEEB, EPM, CVC through 1982, the
latest year for which audited information is available, has been within the
range covenanted under existing loans and, except for EEEB, internally
generated resources for investment over the past few years have averaged in
the 50%-70% range. In EEEB's case, the annual tariff increments already
authorized through end-1984 and estimated for 1985 would generate resources
to cover 32% of its heavy investment program during 1984-85.






A 7- ZA NTiC                                   O CFA NN
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~'$
-\JLANTICO               N  
0~~~~~~~0'
N SANTANDERNNA
N  '~' ~   <'   A N T / \ DRAI
A  AS ~      / 
AA    TE   T    A
A R 1 N 0                                                    V  A U NPANTNDE
*      /                       N~~  QUE   
COLOMBIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ONo0 
CO IMSANTANDE ~                                    IDAC! Aes
'<V  ~4~
10                                                               '-    'V~~~~~~~~~~5



I



