                                           Docrrmmtof
                                      TheWorld Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No. 12116




                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT



                                           COLOMBIA



                        POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT (PEN)
                                        (LOAN 2401-CO)




                                         JUNE 30, 1993




      Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Division
      Country Department I11
      Latin America and The Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

ISA                 Interconexi6n Electrica S.A.
EEEB                Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EMCALI              Empreeae PQblicae de Cali
EPM                 Empresas Pfiblicas de Medellin
ICEL                Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
CVC                 Corporaci6n- Aut6noma Regional del Cauca
CORELCA             Corporaci6n Electrica de l a Costa AtlSntica
JNT                 Junta Nacional de Tarifas
FODEX               Fondo de Moneda Extranjera
FEN                 Financiera Electrica Nacional
I D B               InterAmerican Development Bank
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report




                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS



              Currency Unit    -      Colombian Peso (ColS)


      Year                       Year Average          Yearend




              FISCAL YEAR      =       CALENDAR YEAR

                                                                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                 THE WORLD BANK
                                               Washington, D.C. 20433
                                                        U.S.A.


Office of Director-General
   Operations Evaluation

                                                                                            June 30, 1993



                     MEMORANDUM TO
                     0


       SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Colombia
                      Power Development Finance Project (Loan 2401-COl



                      Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Colombia                        -  Power
       Development Finance Project (Loan 2401-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the
       Caribbean Regional Office, with the Borrower providing Part 11.

                      The project was both ambitious and innovative: one of the first Bank
       operations to use the "B" loan co-financing scheme, it aimed at (i) providing
       external finance for completing Colombia's 1984-85 hydroelectric development
       program, and (ii) establishing Pinanciera Energetica Nacional (FEN) as a strong
       development banking institution to which some appraisal responsibilities might
       be delegated for future Bank sector lending and through which improvement in
       sector finances would be promoted. Whereas the first objective was accomplished
       partially (the project did not result in further "B" loans as expected), the
       second was not, due primarily to weak Government commitment during project
       implementation and deficient Bank supervision. In spite of recent changes in
       Government policy aimed at broadening FEN'S role, persisting financial issues in
       the power sector at the time of PCR preparation made its sustainability as a
       development banking institution uncertain.

                      Accordingly, the project is rated unsatisfactory overall, its
       institutional impact negligible, and its sustainability uncertain.                           The PCR
       provides an extremely detailed and thorough analysis of the circumstances and
       performance of the project. In light of the pilot nature of this project (one
       of the first major financial intermediation operations in the power sector) and
       the significance of the issues revealed by the PCR, an audit is planned.




       Attachment




           This docuntnt has a restricted distribution wd my be wed by recipients only in the perfornsnco of
           their officiat duties. Its contents m y not otherwise be disctosd without Uorld Bank authorization.


Preface  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Sucmury         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM W ' S P-
 .
1    Proiect Xdentitv           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 .
3    proiect Obiectivem             D
            Project Objectivem
            Project Componentm
            Project Financing          ... .. .. . . . . ... . . . . . .
                                          e. .a .m. ...................

            Procurunent
             Subloanm and Onlending Temm
                                . . . . . . .. .. .. .. ................
            Loan Structure        . . . . . . . .. .. .. . .. ..........

4.   B o i e c t m i a n
            Project Formulation and Timing             . . ..................
             Innovative project concept                . . . . . . . . . . .
             PEN*l Role       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
            Changem during Lorn Coaaaittoo
                    Review and Negotiationm                . . . . . . . . . .
             a      Bank Policiem f o r Financial 1nterPP.diuiam
            b ..    Exclumion of Project Comt Overrun Financing
            Dimburmeanent Arrangemmntm                 . . . . . . . . . . .

5.   p-                                                        . . . . .
                                       m  a . . . . . . . . . .

            Utilization of Project Financing
             Strengthening of ?EN am Pawor Sactor
                    Developrunt Bank           . . . . . . . . . .
             a.     Improvomont of Project Analymim and
                    Monitoring Capability              . . . . . . . .
            b .     Enhancmnont of Financial Planning and
                    Advimory Capacity
            c .     Mobilization of Dollurntic Savingm
                                    . . . . . . . . . . . ...
                                               . . . . . . . . . ..
            Domomtic Lending
            Bank Suporvimion Activitiem                . . . . . . . .
             a      Suporviaion Wimmionm               . . . . . . ...
            b ..    Quarterly Project Progremm Roportm
            Activities Submquent t o Cornplotion




  This document has a restricted distributionand may be wed by mipienu only in the performance
  of their ofllcial duties
                         . ttscontents may not otherwim k d i l d without World Bank authorization.

Table of Contents (Continued)
                                                                                       Page No.
                       a.   Six Month Extension of Subloan
                            Amortization Period  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      29
                       b    Temporary Exception from 7:l Debt To Equity Limit             32
                       c..  Increase in FEN'e Responsibilities                    . .. .
                                                                                      .   35
                       Financial Performance                                              37
                       ProjectRiaks    . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . . .. . . . .
                                               . . . . . . . . .1990.and. .1991. . . .
                                                                                          39
                       Actions which affected Project Implementation     . . . . . . .    40




7.   project suatainability                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      42

8.    -~erfonnance                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      42
                  Major Strengths and Weaknesses   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      42
                  Unforeeeen Foreign Exchange Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      44
    Hedgee against Maxi-Devaluation of the Colombian Peso                  . . . . . .    45
    Hedgee against Major Devaluation of US$                . . . . . . . . . . . . .      46
                  The Bank's New Currency Management Policies  . . . . . . . . . . .      48
                  LeeeoneLearned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      50

9.  Borrower Performance                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      52
    Major Strength6 and Weaknesses                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      52
                  LeeeoneLearned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      54




PART 11:              PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE

    Background                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      57
    Borrower'e Report-Introduction                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      61
    Achievement of Overall Loan Objectives                 . . . . . . . . . . . . .      61
    Conclusione                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      62
    Borrower'sComments                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      63

Table of Content6 (Continued)
                                                                       Page NO.


    PART 111: SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION




               RELATED BANK LOANS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   68


               PROJECT TIMETABLE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   70


                LOAN DISBURSEMENTS (INTO SPECIAL ACCOUNTS)  . . . . . .   71


    TABLE 3.2:   SUBLOAN DISBURSEMENTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   72


        LE 4.a:  FEN'e LOCAL CURRENCY BORROWINGS  . . . . . . . . . . .   73


    W L E 4.2:   FEN'S LOANS TO POWER COMPANIES FROM DOMESTIC FUNDS   .   74


        LE 4.3:  PROJECT COSTS (No data on actual coete available -
                 - eee para. 5.39)


    TABLE  5.A:  FEN'e RETURN ON EQUITY COMPARED TO INFLATION,
                AS ESTIMATED AT APPRAISAL AND ACTUALLY ACHIEVED   . . .   75


           5.2:  FEN - COMPARISON OF PROJECTED VS. ACTUAL SUMMARY
                 BALANCE SHEETS AND SELECTED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS . .   76


        LE 6:   STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   77


    ma.ud:          USE OF BANK RESOURCES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   83

T a b l a of C o n t a n t o (Continued)
                                                                                              Page No.




ANNEXES


I.       U n i l a t e r a l Six Month E x t a n m i o n of Subloan Amortization P e r i o d. .  84


        -A:                 REPAYMENTS BY PEN ON PROJECT LOANS AS AGREED
                            COMPARBD TO REPAYMENTS TO FEN ON SUBLOANS AS
                            ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED AND AS MODIFIED FOR S I X MONTH
                            EXTENSION O F SUBLOAN REPAYMENT        . . . . . . . . . . . . .     93



        TABLE B:            REPAYMENTS BY ?EM ON PROJECT LOANS,        ASSUMING
                            MODIFIED SCHBDULB lKlR BANK W A N , COMPARED TO
                            REPAYMENTS TO R N ON SUBLOANS AS ORIGINALLY
                            SCHEDULED AND ASSUNING MODIFIED SCHEDULE         . . . . . . . .     94


        a:                  REPAYUENTS BY PEN ON PROJECT LOANS AS AGREED
                            COMPARED TO REPAYMENTS TO FEN ON SUBLOANS
                           ASSUMING MODIFIED SCHEDULE AND MODIFIED SCHEDULE
                            EXTENDED S I X m H T H S     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     95


                                                         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Extanded T a m T r a n o f o n ~ t i o n                                                     96


111. FEN's
        --          comment. on tha praliarinuy draft of thia report
             a e n t b y l e t t o r o f J a n u u y 3 , 1992.   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    114

                                  COLOXBIA
                      POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJBCT
                                (LOAN 2401-COl




         Thie La the Project Completion Report for the Power Developnent
Finance Project which had two main objectiveer (i) to provide the external
financing required to euetain during 1984-85 high priority electricity
projecte that were already under conmtruction; and (ii) to mupport the
developnent of the then recently created Financiers Electrica Nacional (FEN)
ae a financial intermediary which would raiee domeetic and foreign funde to be
relent to the Colombian power companiee and a8 a development bank which would
etrengthen the financial management of the eector and act ae a power financing
etrategy advieer to the Government and the eector.

         Thie wae an innovative project which broke new ground in the World
Bank and which wae prepared and appraieed under a very tight timetable.
Although the financing objectivee of the project were largely accompliehed
with eome delaye, little progreee wae made in achieving the inetitutional
building objectives.  In order to determine and explain the reamone for this
dieappointing inetitutional performance and to reflect eignificant evente
which occurred after completion of dieburmemente, this report ie eignificantly
longer than the normal PCR.

         Thie project wae one of the firet to uee a cofinancing echeme adopted
by the World Bank in December 1982 under which it would participate in loane
provided by cwnmercial banke ("Bn loane) for projecte financed by etandard
World Bank loane ("A" loane).  Thie echome wae adopted to encourage commercial
banke to continue to provide financing for developing countriee at a time when
they were curtailing euch eupport.  The project financing coneieted of an "A"
loan of USS170 million and "B" loane of USS200 million of which the Bank'e
ehare wae USS28.2 million.  The cloeing date of the "A" loan wae extended by
one year to December 31, 1987.  The final dimbureeunente from epecial accounte
eetabliehed in Colombia'e central bank to eubloane to the power companiee wae
made on the "A" loan on December 1, 1987, and on the "B" loane in July 1988.

         Preparation of thie report began in January 1990. A draft was eent
to the borrower, FEN, and ite comments thereon, which are eet forth in Part I1
of the report, have been reflected ae appropriate in Part I.  Drafte of the
report were aleo eent to the Government and the cofinanciera, but no comnente
were received.

         The Trade, Finance, Induetry and Energy Divieion, Department I11 of
the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office (LA3TFIE) prepared parte I
and I11 of the report based, interu,on     the Staff Appraieal Report, the
loan documente, records of the World Bank and the Final Evaluation Report
eubmitted by FEN.


                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                   COLOMBIA
                      POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
                                          -
                                1LOAN 2401 COL




Proiect Obiectives and Deecription

1.       Oblectives.   The project had two main objectivee: firet, to provide
the external financing required to sustain during 1984-85 the scheduled pace
of eeveral high priority electricity development projects that were under
construction, and in thie connection to re-enliet the eupport of foreign
commercial lenders to the power eector and to Colombia through a cofinancing
package; second, to eupport the development of Financiers Electrica Nacional
(FEN). FEN had been created in 1982 in conformance with an undertaking made
by the Government in 1981 under the Guavio Hydro Power Project (Loan 2008-CO)
when it was recognized that the local currency cost component of the power
sector inveetment program could not be met entirely through eelf generated
funds. FEN'e development wae to be eupported in several respects: to enable
it to eerve as an effective channel for power sector lending projects in
Colombia; to strengthen the financial management of the eector by enhancing
FEN'e ability to monitor the financial performance and proepecte of Colombian
power companiee and to act ae power financing strategy adviser to the
Government and the eector; and to enhance FEN'e image in the domeetic capital
market and thue help facilitate ite acceee to future eavings (parae 3.1 and
4.5).

2.       Deecri~tion.   The project coneisted of eubprojecte representing a
two year time-elice (1984-85) of priority ongoing electricity developnent
projecte of ISA, EEEB, EPM, CVC and COFtELCA, several of which were already
partly financed by Bank loans.  Subprojects coneieted of the portion of the
civil worke, goode and eervices required for the electricity development
projects during the period covered (para 3.2).

3.       Financinq.   Thie project wae one of the firet to use a scheme
adopted by the Bank in December 1982 to encourage commercial banks to continue
to provide financing for developing countriee at a time when they were
curtailing euch eupport.  In addition to a normal Bank loan, referred to ae an
"A" loan under thie echeme, the Bank would aleo participate in the comercial
bank loans, referred to as "B" loane.  The project financing in thie came
coneieted of an "Aw loan of USS170 million from the Bank and "BW loan. of
USS2OO million, of which USS28.2 million wae from the Bank and the balance
from commercial banks.  The "A" and "B" loane would finance the mubloane made
by FEN to finance the foreign exchange coete of the eubprojecte not financed
from other sourcee (parae 3.3-3.5).

Proiect Deeian

4.       The project wae deeigned primarily as an emergency financial
aeeietance project with an institutional component geared to strengthen the
newly created FEN a8 a power eector developnent bank.  The project concept wae
innovative and broke new ground in the Bank.  It was prepared and appraieed
under preeeure and a very tight timetable.  Thie reeulted in delays in
obtaining Loan Committee authorization to negotiate and in completing the
negotiatione (parae 4.1-4.7).  The time taken during the unusually extended
Loan Committee review wae needed to respond to question8 raieed about
departure8 from Bank policies for financial intermediariee and to clarify
whether the propoeale were coneietent with the Bank'e policy that coet
overrune are normally not eligible for Bank eupplementary financing.  The
latter ieeue aleo contributed to the delay in completing the negotiatione.
Becauee theee ieauee were reeolved in a shorter time than wae needed to
complete the arrangement6 for commercial bank financing, there were no adverse
coneequencee ae a result of theee delaye (parae 4.12-4.20).

5.       Both the Staff Appraieal Report (SAR) No.4771-CO and the Preeident'e
Report N0.P-3750-CO clearly epecify the role envieaged for FEN ae a power
eector development bank, and the loan document8 contain pertinent covenants
coneietent with that vieion.  In retroepect, however, it is clear that the
Government and FEN were not ae etrongly committed ae appeared during appraisal
and negotiation to enhancing FEN'e ekille so that, in addition to raieing
funds for the power eector from domeetic and foreign sources, it would be able
to carry our broad reeponeibilitiee to improve power eector financial
management (parae 4.8-4.10).  Thue, there ie no reference to this broad role
in FEN'e description of the project'e objectivee in the Final Evaluation
Report which it prepared (Part 11, para 2.03), and there ie a dieclaimer that
thie wae one of the project'e main objectivee in FEN'e letter commenting on a
draft of thie report (reproduced ae tranelated in Part 11, para 3.00).

6.       It is aleo clear in hindeight that both the Colombian authorities and
the Bank undereetimated the difficultiee which FEN would encounter in
establishing iteelf to fulfill its broad monitoring and advieory role with
reepect to power eector finance8 and to eerve ae an intermediary to which eome
appraisal reeponeibilitiee might be delegated for future Bank eector lending
operatione.  Aa a result, time target8 set forth in varioue undertaking8
agreed during negotiatione to achieve progreee in theee reepecte proved to be
unrealistically ehort.  In all theee reepecte, the Bank underestimated the
rieke related to FEN'e ability to fulfill ite role ae a developnent banking
inetitution and diemieeed them too blandly (paras 4.11).

7.       The disbursement proceduree, in combination with the reporting
requirements and the failure to audit etatemente of expendituree, were not
adequate to confirm that project financing wae limited to foreign coats and
that the limits on the extent of retroactive, and to a lesser extent
eupplemental and overrun, financing were adhered to (parae 4.21-4.25, 5.34 and
5.36).  Aleo, the projections of the conetruction program8 and financing
requirement8 of the power companiee for the 198411985 project time slice made
at appraieal by the Colombian authoritiee and the Bank were overeetimated.
The elower pace of conetruction than forecaet ia the primary reaeon for the
lag in eubloan diebureemente, which in amount and extent beyond December 31,
1985, were eignificantly greater than expected when the loan wae approved and
which required a one year extension of the December 31, 1986, cloeing date.

The final diebursanent to clear the advances made from the commercial bank
loane occurred in July 1988 (paras 5.2-5.7).




8.       Initially, the Bank cloeely monitored project execution and FEN
operatione. Ae time paeeed and it became increaeingly plain that FEN'S role
in reeolving the power sector'e probleme would be of minor importance, the
Bank gave priority to effort8 to prepare what became the Power Sector
Adjustment Loan approved in December 1987, to that loan'e eubeequent
eupervieion, and eince 1990 to preparation of a poeeible eector loan.  In thie
context, the attention given to eupervieion of thie project diminished
eubetantially well before the loan wae fully diebureed.  Overall, the
eupervision effort was ineffective (para 5.22).  In addition, not only wae
there delay in implementation of most of the component8 of the project
deeigned to etrengthen the newly created FEN'e capabilitiee, but for the moet
part the impact of theee efforts ham been ineubetantial (para 5.8).  The
principal ehortcomings were:

         (a)   There wae a one year delay in obtaining the coneulting
               aeeietance to etrengthen FEN'e technical capacity to evaluate
               loan propoeale and monitor project implementation, relatively
               little uee of the loan funde provided for thie purpoee, and
               virtually no independent appraisal activity by FEN through the
               end of 1990 (para 5.9).

         (b)   FEN encountered difficultiee in designing computer eyeteme
               which would serve ite neede, ae well ae thoee of the power
               companiee individually and the eector ae a whole, for
               monitoring hietotical financial performance and for financial
               planning.  The study of eector finances and the formulation of
               a proposed financing etrategy, which FEN undertook to complete
               by September 1984, was eubmitted only in draft form in January
               1986.  The final report wae never eubmitted, nor did the
               echeme for an annual exchange of views on power eector
               financing strategy ever take place ae agreed in the loan
               documente.  Inetead exchanges of viewe took place in the
               context of the preparation and eupervieion of the Sector
               Adjuetment Loan and eubeequent activities (paras 5.10-5.12 and
               9.1).

         (c)   Both the mobilization of domeetic eavinge and extent of
               domeetic lending by FEN fell well ehort of the appraisal
               projections and the covenanted targets.  Thie wae due to the
               deterioration in the financial situation of many of the power
               companiee which made it difficult or impoeeible to obtain the
               intermediation of comnercial bank8 which wae required ae a
               condition of FEN'a domeetic loane to power companiee. That
               deterioration wae not reaeonably foreeeeable at the time the
               project wae appraised, eo that neither FEN nor the Bank ehould
               be faulted for the failure to reach projected borrowing and
               lending levele.  The reeponsibility for the emergence and
               pereistence of deteriorated financial conditions in the power
               eector lie8 with the Government (paras 5.13-5.20 and 5.71).

         (d)   The ineffectiveness of Bank supervision is indicated by such
               matters as failures to:

                 (i)   notice that the consultant who was retained, inter
                       alia, to propose key financial indicators to be
                       monitored had failed to do so and to follow up on this
                       omission (paras 5.24-5.25);

                (ii)   arrange for the audit of statements of expenditures
                       (para 5.34);



               (iii)   be aware of and follow up on the decline in real terms
                       of FEN'S profitability, both during supervision
                       missions and when dealing with the issues raised by
                       FEN'S unilateral six month extension of the repayment
                       period for project subloans (paras 5.28-5.29, 5.46 and
                       5.65-5.67);

                (iv)   continue monitoring compliance with the covenants in
                       the Power Financing and Guaranty Agreements (paras 5.31
                       and 5.35); and

                 (v)   assess critically the expectations that subloan
                       disbursements would be completed by mid or year end
                       1986 (paras 5.4-5.6 and 5.35).




9.       9.                                                    When informed
by FEN in July 1988 that it had unilaterally extended the subloan amortization
period by six months without requesting the Bank's prior agreement, the Bank
responded in a formally correct manner.  It admonished FEN to comply strictly
with the provisions of the loan documents in the future.  Some of the
supporting information for the Bank's conclusions that the extension would
have no material adverse effect on FEN'S finances and that FEN would continue
to have adequate financial ratios is missing from the project files.  It
appears that the Bank's financial analysis of this issue was superficial.
Based on a retrospective review of this matter, it also appears that if this
extension had been analyzed adequately, the Bank would have become aware of
two important issues: the decline in FEN'S rate of return on equity in
comparison to the rate of inflation; and the mismatch between the repayment
terms of the external loans obtained under this project and of the subloans
mode from theee eources.  Had the Bank become aware of these issues, it could
have suggested corrective measures (paras 5.41-5.48).

10.      Temporaw Exception from 7:l Debt to Equitv Limit.   Since 1988, FEN
hoe not complied with its undertakings to maintain its debtlequity ratio
within the limit of 7 to 1.  The ratio, as of the year end, was 7.4 in 1988,
10.0 in 1989 and 8.8 in 1990. The shortfall in required equity to comply with
these covenants as of the year end, using year end exchange rates, was the
equivalent of about US$6 million for 1988, US$42 million for 1989 and US$33
million for 1990.  By letter dated June 20, 1989, PEN requested a temporary
exception from the debtlequity limitation. FEN referred to several major
foreign credits to be made available to it shortly which would cause it to

exceed the limit.  It also referred to pending legislation pursuant to which
FEN would receive additional capital contributions of about Co1$30 billion in
1989.  It  stated that this would bring it back into compliance with the
debtlequity limit.  It concluded with a statement of its intentions to submit
information by the end of 1989 in support of a request for a permanent
increase in the debt limit.   The Bank agreed with this request and apparently
also to a further request made in June to extend the temporary exception to
December 31, 1990, The first increment of equity capital to be provided to
FEN under the new law was paid in by the Government in December 1990 in the
amount of ColS19.76 billion, equivalent at the year end exchange rate to about
US$35 million.  As indicated above, this was not sufficient to bring FEN back
into compliance with the covenanted debt limit.  In September 1991, FEN
requested comments from the Bank and the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB)
on a proposed increase in its permissible debtlequity ratio to conform to much
higher limits allowable under Colombian law applicable to financial
institutions under which FEN now operates. As proposed, the limit would be at
least 12:l and possibly as high as about 20:l.  Both the Bank and IDB are
evaluating this request in the context of the role and financial risks under
which FEN will be expected to operate in the future (paras 5.49-5.55).

11.      Increases in FEN'S Responsibilities - 1990 and 1991.   As a result of
new laws and other regulatory changes, there has been a substantial increase
in FEN'S responsibilities in 1990-1991.  FEN is now authorized to serve the
entire energy sector, although its activities continue to be primarily
focussed on the power sector.  It may now also lend, not only for investment
programs and projects, but to refinance debt service obligations in order to
rationalize the functioning of the energy sector in accordance with the
Government's policies.  In addition, FEN is no longer subject to the
requirement that credits made from domestic savings must have a bank guaranty
or be rediscounted. As a result there has been a very large expansion, by
about six times and predominantly in 1991, in the amount of its outstanding
domestic borrowings.  These, plus the substantial addition to its capital
provided by the Government in December 1990, were used principally to finance
debt service payments of the power companies due on loans guaranteed by the
Government. The power companies need this assistance because the repayment
terms of their loan financing impose financial burdens on them which are not
reasonably related to their earning power, even assuming that they were
efficiently operated and managed and the level and structure of their tariffs
were appropriate. These developments highlight the need for FEN to provide
more ambitious term transformation on a systematic and transparent basis, in
order to apply effective and realistically achievable financial discipline to
the performance of Colombia's power companies (paras 5.56-5.64).

12.      The actions taken in 1990 to increase FEN'S responsibilities are
indicative of a change in the attitude of the Government, which now expects
FEN to act as an effective development bank in support of government policies
to improve the functioning of the power sector.  FEN is to assist in the
formulation of performance or management contracts which the power companies
would enter into with the Government and which would detail measures to be
taken by them to improve their efficiency.  Fulfillment of these contracts
will be supervised by the government, and continued access to FEN credits will
be conditioned on compliance with these contracts.  Companies owned by the
national government which fail to comply with the contracts are to be subject
to restructuring or liquidation (para 9.1 (iv)).

Decisions Adversely Affectina Project Imvlementatio~

13.      A major weakness in the Bank's supervision was the failure to aeeign
to this activity a staff member who was an expert on financial intermediariee
and capital markets.  The effectiveness of the Bank's efforts to improve FEN'e
institutional capability would have been greatly improved had such a staff
member been made available and participated in most, if not all, of the
supervision miesione.  It would also have been appropriate to have designated
such staff member as the projects officer.  This staff member would have
provided an element which was missing during the implementation of the
project: an expert representing the Bank who would gain the confidence and
respect of FEN officials and who would have provided continuity to the Bank'e
efforts to encourage and when necessary prod FEN to fulfill the broad
development banking role envisaged for it (para 5.70).  The project'e handling
was also adversely affected at times during appraisal and supervision by the
absence of a qualified power utility financial analyst (para 8.2).

14.      On the Government's side, a major factor affecting implementation
was the decision to let the real tariff levels fall after the 1985
devaluations, since it had a direct bearing on the internal financing of the
utilities.  This prevented FEN from taking a more active part as a financial
inetitution, lending local currency funds to the utilities, and as a
development institution capable of imposing conditions that would improve the
financial and managerial poeition of its borrowers.  These two capabilitiee go
hand-in-hand since the conditionality cannot be successful unlese a permanent
relationship is established with the borrower that would make it poseible for
FEN to demand actions, even if politically difficult to implement for the
borrower, that would make it worthwhile for the beneficiaries of FEN loane to
comply.  This relationship, and the role of FEN ae a development institution
as well, were elements lacking in the organization of the power sector in
Colombia.  It remains to be seen whether the efforts of the current Government
to reinvigorate FEN will be successful (para 5.71).

Performance

15.      -
         Bank.  The major strength demonstrated by the Bank in its handling of
this project is its capacity and that of its staff to be innovative and
respond promptly to the power sector's need for additional financing for
ongoing projects.  This was a very significant accomplishment.  Despite the
limited progress made in achieving the project's institution building
component, and despite the shortcomings in the Bank's performance during
design, appraisal and implementation of the project cited herein (para 8.2),
the project was a worthwhile undertaking.  There was a genuine need for an
institution such as FEN with the capabilities and responsibilities which the
Bank envisioned when the project was proposed, and there still ie such a need.
The Bank did not pursue the appraisal report vision of FEN effectively, but
the opportunity to do so remains.  The lessons learned in executing thie
project should be valuable in pointing the way to improved performance in the
future (para 8.1).

16.      FEN and other Colombian authorities have called attention to the very
large increases in the project's debt service costs in both Colombian peso and
US dollar terms over what was anticipated at appraisal.  The substantial
increases in debt service costs resulted from two sources: (i) the unexpected
acceleration in the mid-1980s of the crawling peg adjustment of the value of

                                   -viii  -

the peso in relation to the dollar including a 51% devaluation in 1985 and
(ii) the unanticipated substantial devaluation of the dollar vis-a-vis the
Japanese yen (Y) and other foreign currencies such as the Deutsche mark (DM)
beginning in 1985, which resulted in much higher debt service costs for the
"A" loan under the Bank's currency pooling system and for the yen denominated
"Bn loan. The Bank has been criticized because of its failure to provide
solutions which would have protected the utilities and FEN against these
unforeseen exchange risks.  Because the possibility of a maxi-devaluation of
the peso in relation to the US$, or of the US$ against other currencies, was
not "likely" when the project was designed and negotiated, this criticism is
inappropriate. Moreover, in the context of then prevailing circumstances, the
practicability and merits of the Central Bank providing a hedge against a
-5-devaluation   of the peso are questionable.  It may be fair, however, to
criticize the Bank for taking too long to formulate its institutional response
to the problems resulting from the devaluation of the US$ subsequent to mid-
1985.  Consideration should be given to undertaking retrospective studies of
what might have been achieved and at what cost had hedging against the
devaluation of the US$ in relation to other foreign currencies been
implemented for the project loans (paras 8.3-8.18).

17.      -
         FEN.  The major strength shown by FEN as a result of this loan was
its proved ability to mobilize financial savings in the domestic market
through innovative and suitable short- and medium-range instruments (para.
5.24).  Its major shortcomings were reflected in the very limited progress
made in improving its technical and managerial skills to serve as a power
sector development bank in such respects as the ability to evaluate loan
proposals and monitor the implementation of projects for which it provides
financing, and to serve ae a puwer sector financing strategy advisor to the
Government and the utilities. These shortcomings, in turn, reflect a lack of
commitment to these objectives by the Government and FEN and to consequent
inadequate follaw through by them (paras 4.10 and 9.1).

Lessons to be Learned

18.      The lessons of experience under this project that may be relevant to
future Bank-financed projects include (see paras 8.19, 9.2 and 12.2-12.4):

         (a) Emergency Financial Packages; New Lending Models.

               (i) A special procedure could be established by the Bank for
               dealing with emergency financial packages under specific
               conditions, so that ad hoc arrangements would not have to be
               devised as was the case for this project.

               (ii) When new lending models are being implemented,
               particularly as exemplified by this project when they involve
               an early application of a new  cofinancing scheme in the
               success of which both the Bank and its borrowers are highly
               interested and when they are part of an emergency package for a
               client sector:

                    more rather than less financial analysis should be
                    applied;

           and the financial and institutional aspects should be more
           closely supervised, particularly if the technical
           component is weak.  Such supervision should be entrusted
           to Bank staff and not delegated to consultants.

(b) Institutional Development.

     When a principal objective of a project is to assist a newly
      created financial intermediary to serve as a development bank
      for a capital intensive infrastructure sector and strengthen
      its financial management, major responsibility for the Bank's
      activities during the design, appraisal and supervision stages
      should be assigned to a staff member who is an expert on
      financial intermediaries and capital markets.  Key financial
      indicators to be monitored should be agreed during appraisal.
     When there are shortfalls in performance, appropriate follow up
      action should be taken to see that corrective measures are
      adopted.

(c) proiects Involvinn more than One Sector.

     When projects involve more than one sector and the staff
      expertise required for the different sectors work in separate
      divisions, Bank management must ensure that there is adequate
      cooperation and coordination between or among the divisions so
      that staff experts who should be involved in appraisal and
      supervision of such projects are made available when needed.
      The Bank should be more agile in forming multi-disciplinary
      teams across division lines when needed and not attempt to
      compensate for organizational rigidities by using consultants.

(d) Realistic Scheduling.

     When establishing dates to be specified in loan covenants for
      carrying out studies and accomplishing institutional
      improvements, be realistic in estimating the time needed and
     avoid setting overambitious targets.

(e) Disbursement and Reporting Requirements.

     When disbursements are to be made on the basis of advances into
      a special account, and the subsequent actual use of the loan
      funds for project purposes is to be accounted for by
      disbursement from the special account, it is essential that the
      appraisal report estimate the rate of expected disbursements on
     both bases.   Disbursement arrangements from the special account
      and reporting requirements should be designed so that they
     provide a basis for confirming that the financing was used for
      the intended purposes such as foreign costs, and that other
      limits or requirements were observed such as the amount of and
      time limits for retroactive financing.  Staff should make sure
      that the Borrower arranges for the required audit of statements
      of expenditures (paras 4.21-4.25, 5.34 and 5.36).

(f) Leniency.

      There are no advantages to be derived from showing leniency in
      the event of non-compliance with loan covenants.  In the case
      of this loan this is particularly critical, especially with
      regard to FEN'S failure to carry out various commitments
      designed to enhance its financial planning and advisory
      capacity (paras 5.10-5.12).  Less leniency would have
      stimulated more the institutional strengthening of FEN as a
      development banking institution.

(8)Hedninn Foreian Exchanne Risk.

      The Bank should reconsider its role with respect to the
      devastating effect that foreign exchange movements can have on
      the financial position of borrowers, particularly on producers
      of non-tradeable8 such as the utilities, in the absence of
      hedging mechanisms against this risk.  The question which
      should be addressed is whether the Bank is doing all that it
      should to assist borrowers to address this issue appropriately,
      including provision of adequate technical assistance and advice
      to do so.  In the case of Colombia, the role of the central
      bank should be reviewed in this context, since it should be
      able to provide advice about the costs and potential benefits
      of hedging and to coordinate and consolidate hedging activities
      on an economical and efficient basis for borrowers who desire
      to hedge.  Until recently, the Central Bank monopolized all
      foreign exchange transactions as a result of the exchange
      control regime (Decree 444 of 1967), but this is no longer the
      case (see para 5.61).

(h) Extended Term Transformation.

      The feasibility of extending FEN'S term transformation role
      should be studied in collaboration with Colombian authorities
      so that the burden of debt service requirements on Colombian
      power companies is realistically, reasonably and transparently
      related to their earning power.  This subject is discussed
      further in Annex 11.


                                                    COLOMBIA
                                  POWER DEVBLOPHBNT FINANCE PROJECT
                                               [LOAN 2401-COL



                         PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIW



                                                PROJECT ID-

                     Project Name :         Power Developnent Finance Project
                     Loan Numbere:          2401-CO; B-6-CO;         B-7-CO
                     RVP Unit:              Latin A m e r i c a & Caribbean Region
                                            LA3TFIE
                     Country:               Colombia
                     Sector :               Energy
                     Subsector:             E l e c t r i c Power




Sector Development Obiectivecl ( A t timu of ~ r o i e c ta D s a i e a l L

2.1          I n support of t h e Government'e goal t o ineure t h e provision of t h e
e l e c t r i c i t y supply required t o support growth and employment, t h e main
development objective8 of t h e power eector w e r e to eupply a t l e a e t cost t h e
electric energy needed to f a c i l i t a t e growth of productive and commercial
a c t i v i t i e s , and t o help eupply e l e c t r i c i t y t o a larger eector of t h e
population, only 54% of which had acceee to it. The achievement of t h i s
objective was constrained by a ehrinking eupply of funde from t h e
international c a p i t a l        markets, and by t h e emall e i z e of Colombian financial
markets and institutione.

Policy Context

2.2           In May 1983, t h e Government reviewed i n d e t a i l t h e j u s t i f i c a t i o n for,
and t h e f e a s i b i l i t y of, a l l new inveetmente i n t h e 1983-90 power investment
program, taking account, f o r t h e f i r s t time, of competing demande f o r
resourcee from other p r i o r i t y sectore, with a coneequent reduction, by almost
one t h i r d , of t h e planned c a p i t a l outlaye f o r e l e c t r i c i t y .     The authorities
recognized t h e need t o manage and monitor more d i r e c t l y t h e impact of
e l e c t r i c i t y development on t h e reet of t h e economy, i t 8 compatibility with
overall public investment plane and t h e technical and financial f e a s i b i l i t y of
programs a t t h e national and eector levele.

Bank Particination f A t time of oroiect am-

2.3          Between 1950 and 1984, t h e Bank had made 27 loan8 t o Colombia's power
sector, t o t a l l i n g US$1,374 million.              A t t h e mama t i m e t h a t thim project wae
being appraieed, t h e Bank wae aemimting with t h e preparation of t h r e e propoeed

generation and transmission projects.                Past loans had assisted t h e expansion
of generating capacity, transmission and distribution f a c i l i t i e s i n t h e
systems serving Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales,
including expansion of e l e c t r i c i t y distribution t o low-income areas.          Rural
e l e c t r i f i c a t i o n had been aupported under several projects.       The Bank had a l s o
encouraged t h e creation of Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA) t o serve a s an
independent, national generation and interconnection company whose
shareholders were t h e large municipal power u t i l i t i e s and t h e Government-owned
power companies.                A number of Bank loans had financed ISA's construction of
large hydropower projects too big t o supply any one company a s w e l l a s t h e
creation of a national e l e c t r i c i t y grid.      The Bank had a l s o been t h e
coordinator of a technical assistance program t o strengthen system planning,
and t h e executing agency f o r another UMIP-financed program which would enhance
t h e sector's management capability f o r t h e construction of large hydroelectric
f a c i l i t i e s .     Additionally, i n connection with Bank lending, marginal cost
t a r i f f studies had been carried out f o r t h e major markets.           Overall, t h e Bank
had been involved, f o r a period spanning more than t h r e e decades, i n a l l t h e
stages of power development i n Colombia, from t h e planning stage through
financing and construction of generation and transmission f a c i l i t i e s , t o
delivery of service t o t h e f i n a l consumer.         This involvement and t h e previous
Bank lending t o Colombia had been found largely successful, and it was
generally accepted i n t h e Bank and by t h e Government of Colombia t h a t it had
contributed t o t h e evolution of a stronger and more e f f i c i e n t power sector
organization.




3.1          The project had two main objectives.          The f i r s t was t o provide t h e
external financing required t o sustain during 1984-85 t h e scheduled
construction pace of several high p r i o r i t y e l e c t r i c i t y development projects,
and i n t h i s connection t o re-enlist t h e support of foreign commercial lenders
t o t h e power sector and t o Colombia through a co-financing package.                 The
second was t o support t h e development of t h e Financiera Electrica Nacional
(FEN), t h e then recently established financial arm of t h e power sector, i n
several respects: (i)t o enable it t o serve a s an e f f e c t i v e channel f o r sector
lending projects f o r power i n Colombia; (ii)t o strengthen t h e financial
management of t h e sector by enhancing its capacity t o monitor t h e financial
performance and prospects of Colombian power companies and t o a c t a s power
sector financial advisor t o t h e Government and t h e sector; and (iii)and t o
enhance its image i n t h e domestic c a p i t a l market and thus f a c i l i t a t e its
acceea t o future savings.

Project Comwnents.

3.2          Theproject,whichhadanestimatedcostofUS$1.6billionatthetFme
of t h e appraisal (USS898 million i n foreign c o s t s ) , consisted of subprojects
repreeenting a t w o year time-slice (1984-85) of p r i o r i t y ongoing e l e c t r i c i t y
development investments of ISA, EEEB, EPM and CVC, several of which w e r e
already p a r t l y financed by Bank loans.          Contingent inclusion of ICEL and
CORELCA was a l s o provided, subject t o t h e i r preparing by November 30, 1984,

Government-endorsed investment and financing programs covering the years 1984-
87, eatiefactory to the Bank.  The plans were prepared but not approved by the
Government or the Bank.  The Bank decided not to declare ICEL eligible but to
allow CORELCA to participate in the expectation that eubeequent to project
completion its plans would be reviewed again.  The project aleo included a
program to assist FEN in strengthening its technical capability.   All
eubprojects to be included under the project were to be part of the revised
National Power Expansion Program, in the case of generation and transmission;
leaet-cost solutions for completing the network path to the final consumer, in
the case of subtransmission and distribution; or additions to plant needed to
complement one or both of them.   It was agreed that capital outlays for new
electricity development projects would be authorized by the Government only if
the project in question would be economically justified and there would be
available adequate financing that would not affect negatively the existing
financial obligations of the company(-ies) concerned (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02).  Subprojects consisted of a portion of the civil works, goods
and eervices associated with the investments, corresponding to the portion of
electricity development projects executed during the period covered.

Pro1ect financinq

3.3    This project was one of the first to use a scheme adopted by the Bank
in December 1982 under which it would participate in cofinancing provided by
commercial banks (so-called "B" loans) for projects financed by standard Bank
loans (so-called "A" loans).  This scheme was proposed at a time when
commercial banks had become less willing to provide financing for developing
countries.   It was expected that even though the Bank's status as a preferred
creditor would not be extended to the commercial banke, they would be more
willing to provide cofinancing and do so at somewhat more attractive terms if
the Bank were a participant in the cofinancing loans.   There were several waye
in which the Bank might participate, and in this instance it was by taking the
maturities last payable.

3.4    The project financing consisted of an "A" loan of USS170 million from
the Bank and "B" loans of USS200 million primarily from foreign commercial
banke.   One of these was a US$ denominated loan for US$175 million, for which
the Midland Bank is the agent bank.   The other was Yen denominated in the
amount of Y5.5 billion, equivalent to USS25 million at the exchange rate then
prevailing of Y220 per US$, for which the Industrial Bank of Japan is the
agent bank.   The Bank's share of the "B" loans, originally expected to be
US$30 million, amounted to USS28.2 million as finally agreed.   The "Aw loan
had etandard country terms.   It was repayable after a four year grace period
in semi-annual installment over 13 years and was subject to standard variable
intereet rates and foreign exchange risks based on the currency pooling
system.   The "B" loans also had a four year grace period after which the
commercial bank shares were repayable in semi-annual installments over four
years.   No repayments of the Bank's share of the "B" loans were due until the
commercial bank shares were fully repaid.   Then, the Bank's share of the US$
denominated "B" loan, including US$5 million provided by the Nordic Investment
Bank, warn repayable over two years, and its share of the Yen denominated "Bw
loan warn repayable over 1 112 years.   Interest rateta on the "B" loans were
also variable, either 1 518% over LIBOR or 1 112% over the US prime rate for
the Us$ denominated loan and 0.4% over the long term prime lending rate in
Japan for the yen denominated loan.

3.5           Subloans of FEN t o t h e u t i l i t i e o would finance foreign exchange costs
not covered from other oourceo.                  Bank financing, including its share of t h e
cofinancing loans, could be ueed t o finance project costs o r i g i n a l l y expected
t o be financed by commercial lendere but, except f o r t h e Mesitas Hydro Power
Project, could not be ueed t o finance project coat overruns.                       It could also be
used t o finance intereet during conetruction on existing Bank loans, i n t h e
cases of ISA, EEEB and EPM, where t h e Bank'e norma'l c r i t e r i a f o r such
financing were m e t .            The loan agreements were eigned on June 27, 1984.
Retroactive financing from January 1, 1983, was not t o exceed US$29 million
from t h e "A" loan and t h e Bank's ehare of t h e "Bn loans.                 The "B" loans
provided t h a t they could finance only expenditures incurred o r paid a f t e r
January 1, 1983, subject t o a limit of US$5O million f o r expenditures incurred
and paid p r i o r t o January 1, 1984, i n t h e case of t h e US$175 million loan.

Procurement

3.6          Goods and works financed under t h e project by t h e Bank Loans, including
t h e Bank's share of t h e "Bn loane, were t o be procured under international
competitive bidding, i n accordance with Bank guidelines.                      The commercial
lenders' share would follow procurement norme of t h e Bank, IDB, KfW, o r other
i n s t i t u t i o n a l lenders i n t h e case of subprojects p a r t l y financed by them, o r
local procedures of t h e Government satisfactory t o t h e Bank.

Subloans and Onlendina Terma

3.7          FEN could approve eubloans meeting t h e e l i g i b i l i t y c r i t e r i a of t h e
project.            Subloans financed under t h e "Aw loan required p r i o r approval by t h e
Bank.        A free-limit,        however, wae eetablished f o r eubloans which did not
exceed US$4 million f o r any given subproject; except f o r t h e f i r s t three such
loans, Bank approval of f r e e l i m i t eubloane was required only before
disbursement of Bank fund8 wae authorized.                   The 'Bw loans could be u t i l i z e d
only t o finance expenditure8 for eubprojects e l i g i b l e f o r financing pursuant
t o t h e provisions of             t h e "A" loan agreement; essentially t h i s meant t h a t t h e
subprojects had t o meet t h e t e e t o of e l i g i b i l i t y described i n para 3.2.          To be
e l i g i b l e f o r subloans under t h e project o r f o r any other new lending from FEN,
t h e power companies would have t o be current i n paying t h e i r obligations under
all outstanding loans from FEN.                  Onlending term8 w e r e t o be established upon
t h e b a s i s of full-cost recovery by FEN.             The foreign exchange r i s k was borne
by t h e u t i l i t i e s ; t h i e wae accomplished by denominating t h e subloane i n
d o l l a r s equivalent t o t h e various currencies i n which t h e principal of t h e
loans t o FEN from t h e Bank and t h e commercial banks would be payable,
including t h e basket of currenciee applicable under t h e "A" loan.                       Interest
rates, fees and terms of t h e eubloans w e r e a blend of t h e t e r m s of t h e Bank
and co-financing loans, plue a 0.59 epread over t h e i n t e r e s t rate; maximum
subloan term was 15 years, including a 4-year grace period.

Loan s t r u c t u r e

3.8           I n addition t o t h e ueual Loan and Guarantee Agreements f o r t h e "A"
loan, t h e r e is a Power Financing Agreement between FEN and t h e power companies
which d e t a i l s t h e i r reopective obligation8 under t h e project (see President's
Report, para 63 f o r a f u l l eurmmary thereof).             There a r e a l s o separate Loan and
Guarantee agreements for each of t h e "BW loans.

                     4.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION



project Formulation and Timinq

4.1    The project waa conceived during a very critical period of Colombia's
external financing evolution at a time when the Latin American debt criaia had
recently emerged.  Commercial aourcea of credit which were part of the
financing plana of aeveral large projecta under way in the power aector had
completely dried up, and the country waa experiencing aerioua difficulties
securing "new moneyn for theae and other purpoaea.  Due to thia and to the
need to continue implementation of ongoing projects in the power aector, the
loan waa deaigned primarily aa an emergency financial aaaiatance project, with
an inatitutional component geared to atrengthen the newly created FEN aa a
power aector development bank.  Although there had not been a formal appraisal
miasion, there had been Bank adviaory miasiona to FEN in June and November
1982.  The findinga of theae miaaiona, together with a poaitive reaponae from
Government during preliminary diacuaaiona, were conaidered an adequate baaia
for aeeking management agreement to the propoaed project as aet forth in a
combined iasuea/deciaion paper prepared in January 1983.

4.2    A poat appraisal miaaion took place in March 1983.  Aa work progreaaed,
the main outline of the project remained eaaentially the aame but significant
detaila were changed.  Thie included aubatantial increaaea in the loan
amounta.  The original propoaal waa for an "A" loan of US$25 million and a "Bn
loan of US$80 million including a poeaible World Bank participation of US$20
million.  These were increaaed in two ateps to the amounta finally agreed.
Becauae of the need to clarify and refine varioua of the project concepta and
detaile, an unusually long eight week period waa required before Loan
Committee authorization to negotiate the "A" loan wae obtained in December
1983.  The negotiationa were ale0 protracted, and after an initial aeaaion in
Washington in January 1984 they were concluded in a aecond seasion in Colombia
in February.  During negotiations, the Bank reconaidered a position it had
previoualy taken, coneistent with a practice followed to promote financial
diacipline on the part of Bank borrowera, that the funde provided by the Bank
could not be ueed to finance coat overruna on projecta which it had financed
under previous loana.  Infrequent exceptiona to thia practice, however, were
allowed when the circumstancee cauaing the overrun were beyond the control of
the borrower, the borrower and the Government had made substantial efforts to
meet the coeta of the overrun from their own reaourcea, the project was still
economically justified, ita acope could not be reduced and no other sources of
financing were available.  In reaponae to a Colombian request, the Bank
concluded that theae teat8 were met for the Meaitaa project, and it agreed
that FEN could utilize US$43.2 million of Bank funda and $19.7 million of
commercial bank funds to finance the foreign coat overruns on the Mesitaa
project.  This waa neceesary becauae it would otherwise not have been possible
to use the financing being provided preponderantly for projects already under
way, as waa intended when the project was propoaed.

4.3    The loan was presented to the Board for approval in March 1984, nine
months later than it had been originally acheduled.  The original achedule had
foreaeen that the poet appraiaal mission would have visited Colombia in
February 1983, that negotiationa would have taken place in April 1983, and
that the loan would have received Board approval in June 1983.

Innovative project concevt

4.4    The tight original schedule, the absence of a formal appraisal mission,
and the long time it took for authorization to negotiate and then for
negotiations to be completed are symptomatic of thie loan's central
characteristic: in many respects, it was breaking new ground in the Bank.  At
the time it was being designed, no institutional framework or tradition was
available for a loan that would provide emergency financial assistance to a
sector and would be filling the financial gap left by the commercial banks
that were withdrawing from lending to developing countries, including
Colombia, after more than a decade of liberal lending. The Bank was actively
assisting in the establishment of FEN through the June and November 1982
advisory missions when the serious effect of the debt crisis on Colombia's
ability to obtain external financing became apparent.  Coincidentally, the
Bank was considering an expansion of its cofinancing arrangements with
commercial banks through a program of "A" and "B" loans.  This led the Bank to
propose and the Government to agree to an accelerated plan to assist FEN's
establishment through participation in this program.

4.5    FEN had been created in January 1982.  The need to create such an
entity had been acknowledged in a commitment made by the Government in 1981 in
conjunction with the Guavio Hydro Power Project (Loan No. 2008-CO) when it was
recognized that the local currency cost component of the power sector
investment program could not be met entirely through self generated funds.
The original concept was expanded significantly by empowering the new entity
to raise funds from external as well as local sources.  It was intended that
FEN would initially focus its efforts on mobilizing voluntary local savings
to meet the power sector's requirements for medium and long-term local
currency financing, while also establishing itself as a specialized
institution to oversee and coordinate the sector's finances and financing
strategy.  Subsequently, it was expected to expand its operations into the
international capital market.

4.6    It was in this context that the appraisal of this loan was undertaken
under pressure and with a timetable reflecting the urgent financial needs of
the ongoing projects.  The nature of the project was basically considered to
be a mobilization of resources effort that would be mainly associated with
investments that had been already appraised by the Bank.  Thus, in the
combined issues/decision paper of January 1983, the Region proposed that the
project would not require an appraisal report, but only an extended
President's Report.  This approach was not accepted by Bank management.  The
fact that it was proposed, however, reflects the urgency of the situation
which appears to have affected other decisions; for example, the initial
decision (April 1983) not to postpone the loan until a revised 1985-92
expansion program of the power sector wae discuesed with the government and
approved by them, despite recognition that the existing 1982-87 program that
had been adopted in 1981 overstated investment requirements vis-a-vis the
slow-down of demand.  This revision was formalized in May 1983, nevertheleee,
and the financial projections of the appraisal report are based on the revised
scenario.

4.7    The haste and the sense of urgency reflected a real problem, since the
Colombian external finance strategy was falling apart without an indication
that the authorities were coming to grips with the new developments in the

capital markets, and there was a need t o f i n d complementary sources of funds
f o r t h e completion of non-reversible projecta, many of which had been financed
by t h e Bank.           The s i t u a t i o n of t h e c a p i t a l markets was viewed a t t h e t h e a s a
temporary event.                  It was thought that the "B" loan component would assist the
power eector and Colombia i n reetoring normal relations with t h e commercial
banke, and t h a t more co-financed projects would take place i n t h e future a s
t h e normal way t o channel commercial funds t o development projecte.                              That t h i s
never materialized i e something t h a t could not have been foreseen a t t h e time
of appraisal.               A year l a t e r , Colombia and t h e commercial banks changed t h e i r
respective e t r a t e g i e s i n such a way t h a t Bank co-financing was no longer
possible o r necessary i n a "B-loan" context.                            The new commercial bank strategy
entailed relending t o t h e country only all o r most of Colombia's amortizations
t o commercial banks with policy endorsements by t h e Bank and t h e IMF, and a
p a r a l l e l financing package by t h e Bank and t h e IDB.                    Accordingly, there is no
room i n t h i s scheme f o r "B loan" co-financing.                         In these subsequent
operations, however, FEN has served a8 t h e intermediary f o r t h e substantial
amounts of t h e funds borrowed from t h e commercial banke destined f o r t h e
e l e c t r i c u t i l i t i e s .

FEN'e Role

4.8          A central aspect of t h e loan was t h e r o l e t o be played by t h e newly
created FEN a s a development bank f o r t h e power sector.                          A t t h e t h e of t h e
appraieal it w a s thought correctly t h a t FEN w a s not equipped yet f o r t h e
larger r o l e it would f u l f i l l i n t h i s respect, i n addition t o tapping domestic
and external c a p i t a l markets t o provide financing f o r t h e power companies.                         It
wae anticipated t h a t t h e experience gained i n implementing t h e project,
combined with t h e i n s t i t u t i o n a l measures, technical eupport and aesietance
incorporated i n it, would contribute t o t h e development of FEN's banking,
financial, analytical and policy e k i l l s                     80   t h a t it would be more f i t t o carry
out i t e broad responsibilities t o improve power sector financial management.
The Bank a l s o anticipated t h a t FEN, with these improved e k i l l s , would be
qualified t o serve a s borrower and intermediary f o r future power sector
lending projects.                  This was a clever etrategy but i n f a c t , a s pointed out
below i n t h e discussion of project implementation and r e s u l t s , very little was
accompliehed.

4.9          There are several explanation8 f o r t h i a disappointing outcome.                        In
reporting on t h e poet appraieal mieaion, t h e Bank etated t h a t , predictably,
FEN'e role i n sector financee has caueed some appreheneion i n ISA, and t h a t
ISA was reluctant t o relinquish                    i t 8r o l e as coordinator of sector finances,
even though ISA o f f i c i a l s recognize t h a t ISA had f a l l e n short i n f u l f i l l i n g
t h i a reeponsibility.              (Region's letter dated April 29, 1983 t o t h e Minieter of
Finance and Public Credit.)                     The other power companies no doubt also resented
and reeisted eroeion of t h e i r existing responsibilities and authority.                               This
etatement is not intended t o imply t h a t t h e power companies did not honor
t h e i r obligations under t h e Power Financing Agreement t o furnish information
t o FEN with respect t o sub-projects and t h e i r financee.                         M o s t likely, however,
FEN and t h e Government w e r e aware t h a t t h e power companies did not welcome t h e
need t o have FEN review and check t h e judgment8 of t h e i r technical e t a f f , and
FEN and t h e Government w e r e reluctant t o aeaert FEN'e authority t o do s o when
they recognized t h a t t h e qualifications and c a p a b i l i t i e s of FEN's etaff w e r e
still largely untested and unproven.

4.10         It is evident in retroepect that the Government and FEN were not
as strongly committed as appeared during appraisal and loan negotiation to the
enhancement of FEN's status and capability "to monitor the utilities'
financial performance and prospects, and act as power financing strategy
advisor to the Government and the sector." (President's Report, para 57.)
Evidence of this lack of commitment appeared at the very outset of project
implementation. The report of the first supervision mission in September 1984
included the following comment about FEN's organization and management: "The
organization ...seems capable of carrying out the role ae transfer agent
without difficulty.  Management does not seem to desire a more effective
development role."  (Report dated October 10, 1984, Annex 9, para 3).  Further
evidence of this lack of commitment is the lack of any reference to this broad
role in FEN'S description of the project objective in the Final Evaluation
Report which it prepared (Part 11, para. 2.03); and the statement in FENWs
letter of January 3, 1992, commenting on a draft of this report, that "it is
not valid to assert that developing FEN's role as a development bank was one
of the major components of the project" (Part 11, Section 3.00).  The latter
claim ignores the stated objectives and the many significant covenants in the
loan documents clearly designed to enhance FEN's capabilities and
responsibilities as a development bank for the Colombian power sector.   In
addition, the Government's decision to let real tariff levels fall after the
1985 devaluations substantially adversely affected the finances of the
utilities. This, in turn, impaired FEN's ability to condition its lending to
the utilities on their achieving agreed targets for satisfactory financial
performance (paras. 5.68 and 5.71).  On balance, it is reasonable to conclude
that the very limited progress made in achieving the broad objectives for the
role of FEN, as defined in agreement with it and the government of Colombia
during project preparation, is due principally to lack of effective follow-
through by them.  The recent (1990) restructuring by the new Government of
FEN'S legal organization and domain, however, holds out the prospect that this
objective will now be adequately supported and implemented.

4.11   In view of the previous experience with ISA, the likelihood that there
would be resistance to imposition of new centralized authority, and that for
political reasons the Government would respond weakly to such resistance,
could have been anticipated.  (See brief discussion of ISA's history in
President's Report No. P-4676-CO, for the Power Sector Adjustment Loan, paras
45-47.)  Finally, it is clear in hindeight that both the Colombian authorities
and the Bank underestimated the difficulties which FEN would encounter in
establishing itself to fulfill its broad monitoring and advisory role with
respect to power sector finances and to serve as an intermediary to which some
appraisal responsibilities might be delegated for future Bank sector lending
operations. As a result, time targets set in various undertakings agreed
during negotiations to achieve progress in these respects proved to be
unrealistically short.  In all these respects, the Bank underestimated the
risks related to FEN'S ability to fulfill its role as a development banking
institution and diemissed them too blandly.  (See Staff Appraisal Report, para
4.14; President's Report, para 71.)

ahan  s   rin

4.12   Part of the delay in obtaining Loan Committee authorization to proceed
with negotiations was due to the time needed to clarify whether the
Government's intentions on national electric tariff policy as expressed in

public etatemente which had recently been made were compatible with exieting
and propoeed agreement8 with the Bank.  (See memorandum dated November 28,
1983, to Chair of Loan Committee.)  The balance of the time wae needed to
clarify varioue project concepts and detaile.

4.13   a. Bank Policiee for Financial Intemediariee.   Some of the queetione
raieed related to departure8 from Bank policiee for financial intermediaries,
including entitiee epecializing in financing particular eectore, euch as the
urban and water eupply and eanitation eectore in Brazil.  The experience of
theee similar projects ehould have been utilized eyeternatically to structure
thie project.  The ieeuee which aroee involved the Region'e original propoeal
that only eub-loane in exceee of USS10 million would require prior Bank
approval, and that FEN'e decision8 for thoee under thie limit would be eubject
to review during project eupervieion.  To conform to Bank policy, thie was
changed eo that all "free limit" sub-loans would be reviewed prior to
authorizing diebureement from the loan; and coneietent with Bank practice for
newly eetabliehed intermediaries, the firet three "free limit" eub-loane would
require prior Bank approval.  There wae aleo a difference of opinion between
the Region and eenior management ae to the extent to which it would be
appropriate to delegate primary reeponeibility for appraieal of sub-projects
to the untried FEN.  Thie wae reeolved by reducing the "free limit" to Us$4
million.

4.14   The Region'e revieed propoeale for proceeding with negotiations, as set
forth in ite memorandum of December 14, 1983, to the acting Chair of the Loan
Committee and approved by him, detailed the baeie on which FEN would appraise
eubprojecte in the 1983-87 power inveetment program which had an estimated
coet of over USS4 million and which had not been appraieed by the Bank or IDB.
For euch eubprojecte which had an eetimated cost of over USS40 million, FEN
would undertake their appraieal with technical aeeietance provided, as the
Bank deemed warranted, either by coneultante acceptable to the Bank and
financed under the "Aw loan, or through Bank etaff participation in the FEN
appraieal.  For euch eubprojecte which coet between USS4-40 million, the Bank,
aa it deemed warranted, would review FEN appraieale in the field.  These
propoeals did not eurvive the negotiatione.  Although there is no specific
record on thie matter, preeumably they were dropped becauee the Colombian
authoritiee were intereeted in ueing the funde provided by the project
predominantly, if not eolely, for financing the completion of ongoing works
already appraieed, and in that context it wae not coneidered necessary to
define how FEN would appraise new worke.

4.15   The mattere described in the preceding two paragraphs have been
mentioned because they illuetrate two ehortcominge of the Bank's work during
project preparation and deeign.  The firet relatee to the problems referred to
in para 4.13, which might have been avoided if the Bank team working on the
project had included a etaff member knowledgeable about financial
intermediariee and the Bank'e practice8 and policies for euch entities.  such
a etaff member, who ideally would also have been familiar with financial
markets, would have participated in the technical aeeietance missions in 1982
which led to the formulation of thie project and would have taken the lead on
all the important aspects of the project relevant to FEN'e role as a financial
intermediary and its tapping of local capital markete.  Inetead, the Region
had to rely on the employment of coneultante for these tasks with only very
limited aeeietance from the technical division responsible for industrial

finance in the form of occaeional comment8 on draft reporte eent to it.  Had
such a staff member been aeeigned to the project team, reliance on coneultante
could have been reduced and the effectiveness of the Bank'e work during
design, appraieal and mupervision would have been improved.  The eecond
ehortcoming relatee to the divergence in underetanding between the Bank and
the Colombian authorities, which surprieingly had developed at this late stage
of project design, ae to the use of the project loane for purpoeee other than
financing high priority ongoing worke.  Thie point is further illustrated in
the diecussion of the ieeuee which aroee during Loan Committee review related
to cost overrun financing.

4.16   b. Exclusion of Proiect Coet Overrun Financinq.  Questions were raieed
whether the Region'e propoeale were consietent with the Bank'e policy that
coet overruns on projecte previouely financed by Bank loane are normally
ineligible for supplementary Bank financing.  In its reeponee of December 14,
1983, referred to in para 4.14, the Region etated that project coet overrune
would not be eligible for Bank financing under the project.  The authorization
to negotiate was conditioned on the Region being satiefied that the total Bank
financing, under the "A" loan and the Bank'e share of the "B" loan, for
projecte previously financed by the Bank (other than for intereet during
conetruction where the normal criteria for euch financing were met) would not
exceed the eetimated shortfall in commercial bank financing.  The Region wae
aleo requeeted to reaesure itself that with the application of the agreed
criteria for eubproject eligibility eet forth in the December 14 memorandum,
there would be room for the USS300 million of "expenditure8 potentially
financeable with Bank reeourceew referred to in that memo, or at least for the
USS2OO million of propoeed Bank loane.  Thie queetion was raised because of
concern that thie might not be poseible if the etatement in that memorandum,
that only four contract8 under exieting Bank financed projecte would be
eligible for sub-loans, was correct.

4.17   In a memorandum dated December 16, 1983, to the acting chair of the
Loan Committee, the Region provided an analysis of USS323 million of foreign
coets which would be eligible for Bank financing under the agreed criteria.
Thie included USS66.5 million of unfinanced foreign coete of civil worke for
the San Carlos and Playae projecte, limited to an amount equivalent to
previously anticipated external financing that did not materialize.  It also
included USS76.5 million of intereet during conetruction on exieting Bank
loane for eix projecte still being implemented. The balance of USS180 million
was for new subtranemiseion and distribution worke that had not yet been
initiated or appraieed.  Thie analyeie covered the yeare 1883-87.  All of the
civil works coete were eetimated to be incurred in 1983-85, including USS37
million for 1983, some of which may have carried over to the following year.
Of the intereet during construction, USS2.6 million was estimated for 1983,
US$43 million for 1984-85 and USS30.9 million for 1986-87.  Thus, for these
two categoriee related to ongoing worke, only USS112 million was for 1983-85
and the balance of USS31 million was for the next two years.  Of the amounts
eetimated for new eubtranemission and distribution projecte, USSS million wae
for 1984, USS70 million for 1985, and USS105 million wae for 1986-87.

4.18  Ae indicated in para 4.2, when the Colombian authorities were informed
during negotiation8 of the Bank'e proposals for eligibility criteria for Bank
financing and the implicatione this had for the use of a large amount of this
financing for new projecte, they requested the Bank to reconeider its

position.  Apparently focussing on the 1983-85 time-slice proposed as the
project period in the green cover SARI they were concerned that so much of the
Bank funds, estimated at approximately US580 million, would have to be
assigned to new projects to be initiated during 1984-87.  They pointed out
that this departed substantially from the original concept of the project
oriented towards structuring an emergency financing program for electricity
projects in progress which gave priority to continuing work on them and
assuring their timely completion. To achieve the original objective, they
requested the Bank to allow some use of its funds for overrun financing and to
authorize a larger amount of retroactive financing, and the Bank agreed.  (See
Region's memorandum of January 25, 1984, to chair of Loan Committee, and
memorandum to files of February 1, 1984.)

4.19   The project record indicates that when the Region made its green cover
submission to the Loan Committee, it did not adequately appreciate the need to
explain the exceptional circumetancee which would justify supplemental Bank
financing for projects which had been previously financed by the Bank and had
experienced cost overrune.  (See memorandum dated November 8, 1983, responding
to comments that such justification was needed which were made by the Energy
Department in a memorandum dated October 27, 1983, baaed on a review of a
draft green cover appraisal report.)  When this iesue was raieed during Loan
Committee review, the Region apparently decided that it would be unneceeeary
to involve the Bank in any overrun financing in the expectation that the
commercial banks would be willing to finance project coat overruns, including
any associated retroactive financing, without limitation. Although this in
fact did not prove to be the case, the expectation that the commercial banks
might have been willing to do so was not unreasonable.  In proposing to extend
the project investment program period by two years and include a very
substantial amount of new subtransmission and distribution work8 for Bank
financing, however, the Region clearly misjudged how the Colombian authoritiem
would react to this.  In retroepect, it would have been much more appropriate
for the Region to have presented the juetification for supplemental Bank
financing for the overruns on Mesitas project costs (see para 4.2) when
questions about the utilization of Bank funds to finance cost overruns arose
during Loan Committee review.  In retrospect, aleo, it is eurprising that
senior Bank management and project advisors did not call thie issue to the
Region's attention at a much earlier stage in the project cycle.

4.20   Most if not all of the time taken to resolve thie ieeue and other
matters which arose during Loan Committee review and negotiations was needed
in any case to complete the arrangements for the commercial bank financing.
Accordingly, there were no serious adverse consequences as a result of these
delays.

Disbursement Arranaements

4.21   A major share of the responsibility for administering the disbursement
procedures to ensure that the loan proceeds were utilized for the intended
purposes was assigned to FEN.  Under these arrangements, the proceeds of the
"A" and "Bn loans were initially deposited into US dollar denominated
revolving funds established by FEN in the Central Bank.  In turn,
disbursements from the special accounts were made for expenditures for goode
and services and for interest and other charges eligible for financing under
each approved eubloan.  Replenishment of the special accounts was made upon

receipt of withdrawal applications by FEN based on certified statements of
expenditures. Documentation for these expenditures was retained by FEN and
available for Bank review.  These procedures applied to the major disbursement
category for subloans under which 100% of the amounts disbursed by FEN was
financed. The only other categories were for a small amount to be utilized by
FEN directly to pay for consulting services needed to carry out a program to
strengthen its technical capacity, for which 100% of foreign expenditures and
50% of local expenditures was financed; and for the amount to be paid to the
Bank for the front-end fee.  The Central Bank effectively paid the interest
charges on the loans applicable to the amounts deposited in the special
accounts until they were withdrawn to pay for FEN'S disbursements on the sub-
loans.

4.22   The Region stated, in its memorandum of December 14, 1983, that
disbursements from the apecial accounts "will be based upon disbursement
percentages applicable to the items financed under the subloan as well as
receipt by FEN from the relevant subborrower of a disbursement application and
full documentation of the expenditures."  In the context that the financing to
be provided under this project would finance foreign costs, thia statement
implied that the disbursement percentages would vary and that for some items,
particularly for civil works, they would be less than 100%.  Presumably, it
was intended that, in determining eligible expenditures for financing under
this project, FEN would apply the disbursement percentages specified to
determine eligible foreign cost financing under previous loan agreements for
projects which would receive additional financing under thia loan - e.g. for
the Playas Project, 56% of civil works expendituree or 100% of foreign
expenditures and 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods for
equipment.  Such a procedure was not adopted.  Inatead, FEN was allowed to
disburse subloans for 100% of all costs including civil worka.

4.23   There are other respects in which it would have been advisable to reach
specific understandings with FEN concerning itm disbursement procedures,
namely steps it would take to ensure that eligible expenditurea were limited
to those incurred under contracts for which the required procurement
procedures were followed and that the limits mpecified for retroactive
financing and for supplemental and overrun financing were observed. There
were no such understandings.

4.24   The project record does not explain why FEN'm disbursement of subloans
for 100% of civil works costs was accepted as consistent with the intention
that the project loans would finance foreign costs, nor why it was considered
unnecessary for FEN to adopt disbursement procedures for the purposes
suggested in para. 4.23.  It appears, however, that the need for prior Bank
approval for proposed subloans was deemed to provide an adequate opportunity
to check that all theae requirements were met.  Thim approach placed undue
reliance on the reliability of the estimates made as the basis for proposed
subloans. In fact, the actual civil works coets for Playas were less than the
eatimates.   Only the first disbursement application for withdrawal of funds
from the special account for the subloans provided details of the expenditures
to be financed, including for goods and services of the particular contract,
the number of the bill and the dates and amounts of payments thereunder, and
for interest paymenta on Bank loans the dates and the amounts of the payments.
This application also specifically identified and provided the total amount of
retroactive financing.  Thereafter all disbursement applications simply

provided the total amounts to be withdrawn for each subloan, without any
supporting details.  The quarterly progress reports contained an annex listing
the items for which subloan disbursements were made during the quarter (see
para 5.33), but this information was not adequate to determine the extent of
retroactive financing because for the most part dates of payment were not
provided.  This annex, however, did identify the contracts involved and thus
provided a basis to check that project financing was limited to contracts
which met the procurement requirements.  Although reliance on prior Bank
approval for subloans was acceptable to ensure that the limits on supplemental
and overrun financing were observed, a report as to how this actually worked
out for the individual subprojects would have been desirable as part of FEN'S
Final Report.  In addition, it would have been preferable to design
disbursement procedures for application by FEN to double check compliance with
the other requirements discussed in this para. when actual subloan
disbursements were made.

4.25   As elaborated further in discussing project implementation, the design
of the reporting requirements for the project, combined with that for the
disbursement procedures, was not adequate to confirm that project financing
was limited to foreign costs and that the limits on the extent of retroactive,
and to a lesser extent supplemental and overrun, financing were adhered to
(see para 5.36).


                          5.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION



Utilization of Proiect Financinq

5.1    The implementation of this loan should have been relatively
straightforward with respect to its primary objective, which was oriented to
assist the financing of ongoing projects.  The funds provided by the Bank and
the co-financiers were committed within schedule.  Using a comprehensive
format approved by the Bank and prepared by FEN during the period between loan
signing at end June 1984 and effectiveness at end September 1984, initial
subloan requests were promptly prepared and submitted.  The proposals were
limited to the use of the subloans to meet requirements during 1984 and 1985.
The amounts and uses requested corresponded closely to plans made in March
1984 to allocate the project financing among the power companies.  Over a
period of about three months ending mid-January 1985, five subloans were
approved which fully committed all of the Bank financing and all but the USS50
million of commercial bank financing which had tentatively been allocated to
ICEL (which as it turned out failed to qualify).  Supplementary loans to
reallocate these funds to CORELCA, CVC, EPM, and ISA were arranged in November
and December 1985, within the specified deadline for submitting subloans for
Bank approval.  There was some delay in making these arrangements when EEEB
was unable to obtain authorization from the Bogota Council to accept an
additional subloan proposed by FEN.

5.2    Diecussion of diebursements must distinguish between funds advanced by
the Bank and the co-financiers for deposit into the special accounts at the
Central Bank and payments from the special accounts for actual expenditures by
the power companies on the subprojects financed by the FEN subloans.  As
anticipated when the loans were made, the full amount of the US$ denominated

commercial bank loane totalling USS175 million, including the Bank's share of
USS25 million, was diebureed into the epecial account in the eecond half of
1984.  There wae a brief delay in the diebureement of the Japanese yen
denominated commercial bank loane totalling Y5.5 billion, including the Bank
ehare of Y700 million, which was paid into the apecial account on March 29,
1985.  Dieburaement of the Bank loan into the special account wae geared to an
initial depoeit of USS50 million, made on October 1, 1984, and eubeequent
replenishment equal to payments made out of the epecial account for eligible
expendituree.  The subsequent replenishment8 were limited to the extent that
the balance in the apecial account would not exceed the amount of the initial
depoeit (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 3).  In addition, as stated in para
4.11 of the appraieal report, after USS100 million of the Bank loan had been
diebureed, recuperation of the initial depoeit would begin.  On thie basis,
the rate of diebureement was eomewhat elower than anticipated at appraieal.
Comparsd to the appraieal eatimate that the USS170 million Bank loan would be
fully disbursed by year end 1985, the amount then diebureed was USS159
million, or 93% of the total loan.  Of the total amount then diebureed,
however, USS48 million waa held in the epecial account a8 advancee.  No
additional diebureemente were made in 1986.  The remaining USS11 million was
diebureed in two inetallmente in February and April 1987.  The final payment
of USS5.3 million repreaented a final advance to the epecial account requeeted
by FEN to facilitate it8 utilization for diebureemente on eubloane. (Part 111,
Table 3.1 and page 27, Evaluation Final de la Ejecucion del Contrato del
Empreetito FEN-BIRF (2401) - Banca Comercial, prepared by FEN, hereafter
referred to as FEN'e Final Report).

5.3    Disbureement of the eubloans to the utilitiee to finance actual
expendituree on eubprojecta occurred at a much elower pace than the rate at
which diebureemente were made into the epecial account8 (Part 111, Table 3.2
and FEN'e Final Report, Cuadro No. 2).  Meaaured on thie baaie, by year end
1985, only USS111 million, or 65%, of the Bank'e USS170 million "A" loan, and
only USS270 million, or 73% of the total USS370 million of loan funde provided
by the Bank and the commercial banke, had been eo utilized.  By year end 1986,
USS154 million, or 90%, of the "A" loan, and USS334 million, or 90%, of the
total loane were utilized.  By year end 1987, all of the "A" loan and all but
US$800,000 of the commercial bank loan8 had been utilized.  The laet
diebureement of USS5.0 million to EPM, on eubloana financed by the "A" loan,
was made on December 1, 1987 (FEN'e Quarterly Report for the fourth quarter of
1987).  The Bank's USS28.2 million ehare of the commercial bank loane was
fully diebursed on aubloana by September 30, 1985.  CVC was the only one of
the eubborrowere to uee it8 portion of the allocated funde by the end of 1985.
Each of the other four power companiee shared in the USS64 million of eubloan
diebursements made in 1986 and the USS36 million made in 1987.  The final
diebursemente to clear the advancee made from the US$ denominated commercial
bank loane, in the amounts of US$300,000 to EPM and USS500,OOO to COReLCA,
were made in April and July 1988, reepectively (FEN'e Final Report, page 30).

5.4    Eetimatee of the rate at which eubloan diebureemente would be made are
not presented in the appraieal report, and apparently none were ever made.
Thie wae an omieeion of an eeeential part of the appraieal.  Implicitly,
because the final date for eubmitting eubloan applications was December 31,
1985, and the cloeing date for the Bank loan wae eet at December 31, 1986,
eome delay was anticipated between the advance of funde to the epecial
accounts and their utilization for subloans.  Under the procedure for

recuperation of the advances to the special account after US$100 million of
the "Am loan had been diebursed, subsequent disbursements were to be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank was satisfied that all amounts remaining
on deposit in the special account had been or would be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para 5).
Accordingly, to accomplish full disbursement of the "A" loan by  the end of
1985, it is implicit that it was expected that the amount of subloan
disbursements then outstanding would be minor.  Another relevant point is the
provision in the subloan agreements, approved by the Bank, which allowed 20
months from the date thereof as the period for completing disbursements
thereunder.  For the first five subloan agreements covering all but US$50
million of the project loan funds, this required complete disbursements of the
subloans between June and September 1986; for the remaining four subloans,
which did not involve the "An loan, this required complete disbursement by
March 1987.  In fact, only CVC and EEEB met these deadlines.  On balance, when
the project loans were made, it is unlikely that it was expected that: (i) at
year end 1985 there would be as much as USS59 million, or 35% of the USS170
million "A" loan, plus US$31 million, or 16% of the US$200 million of "B"
loans remaining to be disbursed on subloans; and (ii) it would take another 12
months after 1986, or even more in the caee of the "B" loans, to complete.the
disbursement of the final 10% of the loans.

5.5    The Bank did not become aware of the need for an extension of the
closing date until late in 1986 when, by letter dated October 29, 1986, FEN
requested an extension to December 31, 1987.  Prior to that, the October 1985
and August 1986 supervision missions reported that disbursements would be
completed by mid or end 1986, respectively.  The October 1985 report
attributed the disbursement delays to delays in implementing some of the
subprojects and neither report reflected any serious problems in this
connection. Considering the amounte remaining to be disbursed on subloans and
the pace at which subloan disbursementa had been occurring as of the time of
the October 1985 mission, the target date of mid 1986 for completing
disbursements reported by it should have been subject to more critical
assessment.  This goal then required average subloan disbursements of US$50
million for three subsequent quarters, compared to the USS22 million rate for
the two previous quarters.  In addition, EPM'S relatively low utilization rate
of subloans should have been noticed (see para 5.35) and resulted in questions
which also would have raised doubts about the likelihood of completing
disbursements by mid-1986.

5.6    As of the August 1986 mission, average disbursements of US$25 million
for two subsequent quarters were required to complete disbursements by year
end, a rate that might well have been deemed reasonable in comparison to the
rates attained since the first quarter of 1985.  Beginning with the quarter
ending September 30 1986, however, there was a reduction in the level and a
much more erratic pattern of subloan disbursement than previously prevailed.
This should not necessarily have been a surprise, since it appears that the
August 1986 supervision mission also overlooked an opportunity to suggest that
further analysis was needed on this subject.  That mission's report included a
statement of subloan utilization as of June 30, 1986, which showed that EPM
had made least use of its subloans: only USS24 million, or 40%, of the USS61
million allocated to it had been disbursed, compared to at least 90% of the
subloans to the other four power companies. (Mission report dated September
16, 1986, Section 1, para 4.)  This disparity should have led the mission to

inquire into the reasons why EPM was making such slow u t i l i z a t i o n of i t e
subloans, and t o suggest t h a t FEN should ascertain from EPM when the remaining
balance of USS37 million would be claimed and make similar inquiries of t h e
other power companies with unclaimed balances a s of t h a t t i m e .        Had t h i s been
done, the mission might not have concluded so confidently that: "Loan
disbursements a r e proceeding satisfactorily.            FEN is making arrangements so
t h a t by year end there w i l l not be any balance pending disbursement." (Ibid.,
para 5)

5.7             The reasons cited by FEN t o explain t h e delays i n subloan disbursements
were documentation problems experienced by t h e u t i l i t i e s i n t h e i r payments t o
contractors and insufficient local currency funds t o execute subprojects a t
t h e pace originally planned.         It is also relevant t o note that material
amounts of subloan disbursements t o finance interest payments during
constrl~ctionextended i n t o 1986 and 1987.         This was accomplished a f t e r t h e
reallocation t o t h i s category of amounts designated i n the original subloan
applications t o finance c i v i l works and equipment expenditures and of amounts
included therein t o be specified later.           This need t o complete the
disbursement of t h e subloans through extended financing of interest during
construction, is evidence, i n addition t o t h e disbursements made for
expenditures incurred i n 1986 and 1987 for c i v i l works and equipment, t h a t t h e
projections of the construction programs and financing requirements of t h e
power companies for t h e 1984/1985 project t i m e s l i c e made a t appraisal by t h e
Colombian authorities and the Bank w e r e overestimated.           The slower pace of
construction than forecast is the primary reason for t h e lag i n subloan
disbursements, which i n amount and extent beyond December 31, 1985, were
significantly greater than expected when t h e loan was approved.               I f , however,
judgment is limited t o t h e lag of about 12 months beyond t h e original closing
date, December 31, 1986, which involved only about 10%of project financing,
t h e lag may be regarded a s of minor importance.




5.8             Implementation of most of the components of t h e project designed t o
strengthen t h e newly created FEN'S capabilities was delayed, and for the most
part the impact of these e f f o r t s has been insubstantial.

5.9       3.                                                                          FEN was
about one year l a t e i n obtaining the consulting assistance provided under t h e
project t o strengthen its technical capacity, including a study of its
technical staffing requirements t o evaluate loan proposals and t o monitor
project implementation.           The consultant was retained i n July 1985 rather than
by June 30, 1984, and t h e study was completed i n           September 1985 instead of by
December 31, 1984, a s agreed (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01).              The Bank
reviewed the study report promptly and endoreed its recommendations.                  The
additional technical s t a f f recommended t o meet FEN'S immediate requirements,
two well qualified power engineers, was not hired u n t i l 1986, rather than 1985
ae contemplated when t h e loan was made.          Other organizational recommendatione
contained i n t h e report w e r e implemented.     Only about US$12,000 of the
USS80,OOO provided under t h e Bank loan t o finance t h i s activity was utilized.
In t h i s connection, it is relevant t o note t h a t a l l subloans under the project
w e r e f o r ongoing projects, and FEN never used t h e authority it had under t h e
project t o appraise independently subprojects for which its loan would not
exceed US$4 million (free-limit subloans; see para 3.7).               In addition, during

t h e project implementation period (through 1987) and subsequently, it appears
t h a t FEN has done very little i f any independent appraisal work with respect
t o loans by FEN t o t h e power companies from local o r other external sources.
Instead,       FEN'S judgments concerning these loans have been baeed primarily, i f
not exclueively, on evaluation reports prepared by its borrowers.                        The one
exception has been a USS80 million loan from IDB f o r e l e c t r i c i t y l o s s
reductions made i n 1987, under which FEN is t o evaluate eubprojects submitted
by t h e power companiee applying c r i t e r i a which meet t h e appraisal standards of
IDB.      Through year end 1990, however, only USS3.3 million of diebureemente had
been made under t h i s loan.

5.10         b. Enhancement of Financial Plannina and Advieorv Ca~acitv. A eecond
set of measures t o improve FEN'S technical capacity included an informal
undertaking to complete an e f f o r t already begun, using FEN'S own resources, t o
deeign FEN8e operating procedures, determine its computer requirements and
i n s t a i l computer f a c i l i t i e s compatible with those of t h e power companies as
soon a s possible.                 The objective was t o meet FEN'e requirements, a s w e l l a s
those of t h e power companies individually and t h e eector a s a whole, f o r
monitoring h i s t o r i c a l financial performance and preparing projected financial
etatements needed f o r financial planning (SARI para 2.05).                      The work on t h i s
eecond undertaking was carried out with t h e aesistance of coneultante who w e r e
a l s o retained by FEN, ueing i t m own resources, eimultaneously t o carry out a
study on sector finances and formulate a proposed financing strategy
coneidering alternative scenarios.                  FEN wae formally committed under t h e
project t o complete t h i s study by September 15, 1984, and promptly thereafter
diecues it with t h e Government, ISA and t h e Bank.                Subsequent t o t h e f i r s t
exchange of viewe baeed on t h i s etudy, there were t o be eimilar annual
discussions of t h e adequacy of t h e existing financing etrategy f o r t h e power
eector and t h e necessary revision8 thereto, not l a t e r than Auguet 31 i n each
year beginning i n 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.13 and Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3,05)             .     ISA agreed to cooperate with FEN f u l l y and actively so t h a t
FEN could f u l f i l l its obligation8 t o carry out t h e etudy, and t o p a r t i c i p a t e
i n t h e annual exchanges of views (Power Financing Agreement, Section 5.01).
I n r e l a t e d undertakings, ISA agreed t o prepare by April 30 of each year, and
t h e Government agreed t o review and furnish t o t h e Bank f o r its comments by
September 30 of each year, a study on t h e updated e l e c t r i c i t y demand growth
projectione and t h e related power investment program (Power Financing
Agreement, Section 5.03, and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.13).                        These were
t o serve ae inpute t o t h e annual review of eector financing strategy.

5.11         D i f f i c u l t i e s which should have been foreeeen w e r e encountered i n
designing and i n e t a l l i n g computer f a c i l i t i e e which would meet FEN'e
requirements and be compatible with those of t h e power companiee.                      Since a
uniform eyetem of accounte had not been prescribed, t h e power u t i l i t i e s did
not keep t h e i r accounts and report t h e i r reeulte on a comparable basis.                  The
eubeidiariee of ICEL and CORELCA had poor accounting eyetems, and there w e r e
long delaye i n obtaining r e l i a b l e data from them.            The Bank was w e l l aware of
t h e d i f f i c u l t i e s ISA experienced i n providing consolidated financial
statements f o r t h e sector.              Moreover, t h e expectation t h a t t h e power financing
study would be completed by September 15, 1984, was u n r e a l i s t i c a l l y short, ae
indicated i n para 4.11.                 The coneultante delivered a d r a f t of t h e report t o
FEN on Auguet 15, 1985.                  After extensive review within Colombia, t h e d r a f t was
forwarded t o t h e Bank on January 15, 1986.                The Bank responded on February 5,
1986, i n a letter which contained extensive and detailed comments, and

extended the deadline for submitting the revised and f i n a l report t o September
15, 1986.       The Bank followed up i n April and September 1986.          In a telex dated
September 24, 1986, FEN informed t h e Bank t h a t the revision of the study was
being prepared by a special working group established by the Minister of Mines
and Energy, and it propoeed t h a t t h i s revision be presented t o a forthcoming
preparatory mission from t h e Bank for a proposed sector loan ae the study
referred t o i n Section 4.13 of the Loan Agreement.              In response, the Bank
agreed t h a t for 1986 t h e review of power sector finances would be accomplished
during appraisal of the sector loan.

5.12     The scheme for an annual exchange of views among the Government, FEN,
ISA and the Bank, described i n para 5.10, has not been carried out a s such.
Instead, the Bank's supervision of the FEN loan merged with e f f o r t s t o prepare
the Power Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 2889 CO) approved i n December 1987.
Exchanges of views between the Bank and Colombian authorities have been
carried out i n the context of the preparation and supervision of the Sector
loan and subsequent power sector and project preparation activities.                FEN has
not played t h e leading role envisaged for it under the project a s power sector
financing strategy advisor t o the Government and the u t i l i t i e s .

5.13    3                       s                    . The project included two sets of
measures concerning FEN's mobilization of local savings t o be relent t o t h e
power companies.         First, i n order t o have a better match between the
maturities of the securities issued t o r a i s e funds from the domestic capital
market and those of the local currency loans made t o the power companies, it
was agreed t h a t , by December 31, 1984, FEN would prepare a plan of action
acceptable t o the Government and the Bank t o encourage private investment i n
medium and long term obligations issued by FEN, and t h a t the Government would
take a l l actions neceesary t o enable FEN promptly t o put t h a t plan into effect
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.11, and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).
Second, i n order t o ensure t h a t FEN raised an appropriate share of the
incremental resources expected t o be available i n the domestic capital market,
annual targets of the minimum amount of funds FEN would r a i s e from local
investors w e r e agreed for each of the years 1984 through 1987; these targets
were t o be reviewed and updated, a s necessary, by agreement among FEN, the
Government and the Bank a s part of an annual review of FEN's borrowing and
lending operations which would take into account the power sector's financing
requirements (Loan Agreement, Section 4.12, and Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.04).

5.14    The appraisal report recognized that, given the strong orientation of
Colombia investors toward short term paper, it would take t i m e t o a t t r a c t
medium and long t e r m funds.       It also recognized the practical difficulties
involved i n extending maturities, such a s the lack (then) of a free market
index of short term interest r a t e s which would be necessary i f t e r m bonde with
interest r a t e s adjustable quarterly based on an index w e r e t o be acceptable.
The f a c t t h a t t a x regulations w e r e unfavorable t o t h e issuance of medium and
long term paper was another problem which the report mentioned would have t o
be resolved (SAR, paras 2.11-2.16).            It is surprising, therefore, that a
target date a s early a s December 31, 1984, was set for submitting and promptly
implementing a plan of action t o extend the maturities of FEN's local
borrowinge.        This proved t o be unrealistic.

5.15       To comply with its obligation t o prepare t h e plan of action, FEN
retained consultants who submitted a report, dated February 28, 1985, which
analyzes and recommends several alternatives which FEN should consider a s
sources f o r r a i s i n g medium and long term financing.               Subsequently, as
explained i n para 5.24, t h e Bank retained an expert t o review FEN's r o l e a s a
development banking institution.                H i s report, dated       October 14, 1985, i n t e r
a l i a , reviews FEN's capacity t o mobilize funds from t h e domestic c a p i t a l
market and a l s o analyzes options available t o FEN t o issue longer term
securities.        Copies of these reports w e r e exchanged between t h e Bank and FEN,
and t h e i r contents w e r e apparently discussed i n t h e f i e l d during t h e Bank's
preparatory work on t h e Power Sector Adjustment Loan.

5.16       No attempt was made t o implement any of t h e alternatives recommended t o
r a i s e medium and long term funds principally because of t h e unwillingnese of
domestic banks t o assume primary l i a b i l i t y f o r loans t o most of t h e power
companies i n Colombia whose financial condition was deemed by them t o be
unsatisfactory.         The intermediation of t h e commercial banks through
rediscounting with, o r d i r e c t guarantee t o , FEN was required as a condition
f o r FEN's loans t o t h e power companies.             A s a r e s u l t of t h i s impediment t o its
local currency lending operations, FEN was unable t o expand t h e volume of its
loans t o t h e power companies a t t h e r a t e anticipated during appraisal, and
correspondingly it was unnecessary f o r FEN t o expand its domestic borrowings
t o m e e t t h e agreed targets.

5.17       Actual l o c a l currency borrowings by FEN w e r e substantially less than
t h e estimates made a t appraisal (Part 111, Table 4.1).                     A s of year end 1987,
t h e outstanding amount of such borrowings was only 25% of t h e appraisal
estimate.        Both t h e October 1985 and August 1986 supervision missions pointed
out t h e reasons why it had not been possible for FEN t o meet t h e specified
borrowing t a r g e t s (see para 5.16).           The former recommended t h a t t h e Bank
accept t h e reduced amount raised for 1984 a s compliance and t h i s was confirmed
i n a follow up telex.           The l a t t e r reported t h a t t h e amount borrowed locally i n
1985 w a s much l e s s than had been agreed, and t h a t FEN had requested a
modification of Section 4.12 ( a ) of t h e Loan Agreement which would
substantially reduce t h e amounts t o be raised locally.                     It recommended that
coneideration of t h i s request be delayed u n t i l negotiation of t h e power sector
loan then under preparation, s o t h a t t h e decision would take i n t o account t h e
neede of t h e power sector f o r such financing a s evaluated during t h e appraieal
of t h a t loan.     (Supervision Report dated September 16, 1986, Sections I1 and
111). The Banks's follow up telex contained this proposal, which FEN
accepted.        (Bank t e l e x t o FEN dated September 19, 1986; reply t e l e x dated
September 24, 1986).            Since then, a s i n t h e case of t h e annual review of power
sector financing strategy, t h e annual review of t h e adequacy of FEN'S lending
and borrowing operations has been carried out a s part of t h e work related t o
t h e Power Sector Adjustment Loan and subsequent a c t i v i t i e s (see para 5.12),
instead of i n accordance with t h e express terms of t h e loan documents, i n t h i s
case Section 4.12 of t h e Loan Agreement.

5.18       The August 1986 supervision mission was carried out by t h e banking
expert referred t o i n para 5.15.              Although he noted t h a t it made no sense t o
borrow funds t h a t cannot be relent, he was a l s o concerned t h a t FEN had f a i l e d
t o achieve its objective t o a s s i s t i n meeting t h e financing needs of t h e power
sector by r a i s i n g funds from domeetic financial markets.                   I n h i s opinion, FEN
could increase t h e amount of its local borrowings substantially without

crowding out other participant6 i n theee markete.                       H e recommended t h a t t h e
reluctance of t h e local financing inetitutione t o lend t o t h e financially weak
power companiee could be overcome i f legielation w e r e paeeed which would allow
them t o charge penaltiee f o r arreare i n payment6 by t h e power companiee.                          H e
eetimated t h a t t h i e , plue other etepe needed t o improve t h e financial
condition of t h e power companiee and eetablieh t h e i r earning6 at reaeonable
levels, would make it poeeible f o r FEN t o increaee local borrowing6 eo t h a t by
year end 1988 they would reach t h e nominal amount eetimated at appraieal t o be
attained by year end 1987.                 Thie wae about two yeare eooner than wae forecaet
i n t h e financial projections prepared by FEN and reviewed by t h e Auguet 1986
mieeion.            I n actuality, and without enactment of t h e propoeed legielation and
with a continuation of financial probleme f o r many of t h e power companiee, t h e
nominal amount of Co1$63,000 million of domeetic borrowing6 forecaet a t
appraieal f o r 1987 wae not reached u n t i l 1990.                 I n real terme, of couree, t h e
amount of funde raieed by FEN from t h e domeetic financial market through t h e
end of 1990 wae e t i l l w e l l ehort of t h e appraieal eetimate f o r 1987.

pomeetic Lendinq

5.19          FEN'S lending t o t h e power companiee from domeetic funde hae aleo
followed a pattern eimilar t o t h a t of i t e domeetic currency borrowings (Part
111, Table 4.2).               The actual amount of euch loane ae of t h e end of 1987 wae
48% of t h e nominal Co1$82,000 million forecaet f o r t h a t date a t appraieal, and
t h a t nominal level of lending wae not attained u n t i l t h r e e yeare l a t e r i n
1990.         Again, i n r e a l terme t h e amount of euch lending continue6 t o be w e l l
under t h e appraieal eetimatee.

5.20          The i n a b i l i t y of FEN t o m e e t t h e domeetic borrowing and lending targete
agreed o r projected a t appraieal wae due primarily t o t h e deterioration i n t h e
financial eituation of many of t h e power companiee which wae not then
reaeonably foreeeeable.                Under t h e prevailing circumetancee, FEN accompliehed
ae much ae could be expected i n relation t o t h e magnitude of i t e domeetic
borrowing and lending programe.                  Similarly, t h e Bank ehould not be faulted f o r
having f a i l e d t o preeeure FEN t o do more i n theee reepecte.                       The Bank
appropriately turned i t e attention t o an attempt t o correct t h e underlying
probleme which caueed t h e poor financial performance of t h e power eector
through t h e Power Sector Adjuetment Loan.                    It i e the Government which bears
ultimate responsibility f o r t h e emergence and pereietence of deteriorated
financial condition6 i n t h e power eector.

5.21          FEN has made eignificant progreee i n extending t h e maturity of its
domeetic borrowings which ehould be acknowledged.                        I t e i n i t i a l borrowings w e r e
through eale of 90 day and 180 day E l e c t r i c i t y Certificates (CEV) eold a t a
diecount which reeulted i n an effective i n t e r e e t r a t e which was eubetantially
positive i n r e l a t i o n t o t h e prevailing i n f l a t i o n rate.       These had a good
reception and FEN w a s able t o drop t h e 90 day paper and o f f e r t h e 180 day
c e r t i f i c a t e s with t h e option of one renewal f o r a further 180 days.                Beginning
i n 1985, it hae aleo ieeued two year Energy C e r t i f i c a t e s (TER).                   One fourth of
t h e face valuee of these c e r t i f i c a t e s i e redeemable a t half yearly intervals.
The intereet payable on each coupon payment increaeee with t h e maturity.                              The
inveetor hae t h e option of postponing redemption t o subsequent half year
pointe i n order t o take advantage of t h e higher effective i n t e r e s t rate.                     The
ecale of i n t e r e s t r a t e e i e predetermined on a baeis expected t o be
eignificantly poeitive i n relation t o inflation.                     By 1986, 44% of FEN'S t o t a l

domestic borrowings were raised through the TERs.  The relative importance of
the TERs increased in each subsequent year, rising to 93% in 1989.  In that
year, FEN also began issuing a four year version of the TER.  Reflecting
recent developments in the domestic financial markets, the interest rate
payable on each yearly coupon is related to the average effective interest
rate, known as DTF, paid in Colombia on certificates of deposit.  The interest
rate on the first coupon is equal to DTF; for the second DTF plus 3%; for the
third DTF plus 4%; and for the fourth, DTF plus 5%.  As of year end 1990, the
relative importance of TERs had declined to 53% of FEN'S total domestic
borrowings.  Additional information about FEN'S domestic borrowing and lending
activities in 1990 and 1991 is presented in paras 5.56 -5.61.

Bank Supervision Activities

5.22   Initially, the Bank  closely monitored project execution and FEN
operations.  As time passed and it became increasingly plain that FEN'S role
in resolving the power sector's problems would be of minor importance, the
Bank gave priority to efforts to prepare what became the Power Sector
Adjustment Loan approved in December 1987, to that loan's subsequent
supervision, and since 1990 to preparation of a possible sector loan.  In this
context, the attention given to supervision of this project diminished
substantially well before the loan was fully disbursed.  As previously
indicated in this section 5 and elaborated further below, overall, the
supervision effort was ineffective.  The discussion under this heading will be
related to: (a) supervision missions; and (b) quarterly reports on project
progress.

5.23   a. Supervision Missions.  There were four supervision missions:
September 1984, March 1985, October 1985 and August 1986.  The first two
missions were carried out by the project officer, an experienced senior power
engineer who was able to handle the entire mission by himself very competently
even though it would have been preferable at least for the second mission had
he been accompanied by a financial analyst and/or an expert on financial
intermediaries.  After the retirement of that engineer, he was succeeded as
projects officer by another senior power engineer who with a senior financial
analyst, also new to the project, carried out the third mission.  The fourth
mission was performed by the banking expert mentioned in para 5.15.  He should
have been accompanied by a staff member.  All of the reports rated the project
status as satisfactory and without serious problems.

5.24   One of the purposes of the second supervision mission was to arrive at
a model of the type of quarterly progress report to be submitted.  This was
accomplished during that mission, with the exception of the financial
information for FEN, including the key financial indicators to be monitored.
(See paras 5.32 -5.39 for a further discussion of the quarterly reports).  It
was agreed that this gap would be resolved with the assistance of a banking
expert who would participate in the next mission.  The mission report does not
explain why agreement on periodic financial reporting requirements was
deferred.  This subject had been covered in the letter which the Bank had
previously sent to detail reporting requirements (see para 5.32) including, as
part of the annual financial information expected from FEN, key financial
ratios to be monitored which were identical to those contained in Annex 2.13
of the Staff Appraisal Report.  Indeed, the supervision report included a
comparison of the forecast and actual ratios for 1984 using these indicators.

This proved to be the last time such monitoring occurred, however; as
explained in the next para, no recommendations on this subject resulted from
the visit of the banking expert.  The mission report emphasized that the
participation of a banking or development finance company expert was also
necessary to provide advice on a request from FEN for modification of the
formula which determines the minimum liquidity requirement it must maintain
(specified in Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement); for the exchange of views
from time to time between the Bank and FEN concerning FEN'S administration,
operations and financial condition (Loan Agreement, Section 4.09); for the
annual exchange of views among the Government, FEN and the Bank on FEN'S
borrowing and lending operations (Loan Agreement, Section 4.12); and to
provide advice on questions the mission raised about the basis for FEN'S
financial projections reviewed during the mission.  Prior to the second
mission, in a telex dated March 5, 1985, responding to the request for
amendment to the liquidity requirements, the Bank had informed FEN of its
intention to send someone with a background in development finance, banking
and power utility financing to review FEN's role as development banking
institution who, inter alia, would provide advice on that request.

5.25   The consultant retained by the Bank for the purposes indicated in the
preceding paragraph visited Colombia in September 1985 and issued a report
dated October 14, 1985.  The item in the terms of reference, dated Sept. 9,
1985, concerning reporting requirements was related to the liquidity issue:

       "(e) Discuss with FEN's management its proposal to improve the
       liquidity approach  ... as well as other monitoring indicators
       for reporting requirement purposes."

In this context, after reporting that FEN had decided to withdraw its request
to modify the liquidity formula, except for a minor clarification, the
consultant concluded that "There appear to be no other problems with regard to
monitoring clauses on covenants." (Document # 299.342, English translation of
consultant's report, page 25).  Bank staff failed to notice that the terms of
reference had not adequately focussed the consultant's attention on the Bank's
desire to have his advice on the information, including key monitoring
indicators, concerning FEN's financial performance which should be included in
periodic progress reports.  This matter was never again raised.  Paras 5.28-
5.29 contains additional comments on the Bank's limited monitoring of FEN'S
financial performance.

5.26   The second supervision mission recommended that FEN should analyze the
possibility of extending the maturity of its loans (from local sources) to the
power companies from five years to seven years, which would be more in line
with the sector's needs.  This suggestion, adopted by FEN as of June 13, 1985,
represents an accomplishment of modest significance which should be credited
to that mission.

5.27   The third su~ervisionmission, like the preceding two, reviewed in
detail the status of compliance with all of the covenants in the loan
documents for this project.  In the aide memoire summarizing the findings of
the third mission which was discussed and left with FEN, it reported some
deficiencies in complying with covenants, including: CVC's delinquency in
interest payments to FEN (which was subsequently corrected); Corelca's failure
to earn the specified rate of return in 1984; and Government's failure to

submit by the agreed time a price index for the sector to be used for
revaluation of assets.  The mission informed FEN that the Bank would bring
these matters to Government's attention.  It also reported the substantial
shortfall in local borrowings by FEN in 1984, and stated that it would
recommend that this be accepted because as explained by FEN it was
unavoidable. The Bank aent a telex to FEN confirming the mission's findings
a8 set forth in the aide memoire.  A draft telex to the Government, however,
which the supervision report recommended to call attention to the shortcomings
of CVC and CORELCA and the delay in proposing a sector price index, and
request that remedial action be taken, was not sent.   There is no explanation
in the project files why this telex was not aent; presumably it was just an
oversight.

5.28   The fourth su~ervisionmission reviewed FEN'S financial performance for
the period 1983-85 in comparison to the forecasts made at appraisal.   It
concluded that FEN'S financial results for 1985 and the two previous yeara
were satisfactory.  The rate of return on equity of 21% in 1985 and 1984 and
22% in 1983 was compared with yearly inflation ratea of 16% for 1985, 18% for
1984 and 17% for 1983 and thus indicated to be about four percentage points
positive.  Although a comparison in this respect with what had been assumed at
appraisal was not presented, it would have shown that the appraisal report
understated the 1983 performance and had estimated rates of return on equity
of 20% and 21% for 1984 and 1985, compared to estimated inflation rates of 22%
and 20%, respectively (Part 111, Table 5.1).  The mission was evidently
misinformed on the average yearly inflation ratea for these yeara which, as
officially reported baaed on the CPI, were 20% in 1983, 16% in 1984 and 24% in
1985. On this basis, the performance for 1985 fell somewhat short of
satisfactory.

5.29   This mission also reviewed the financial projections for 1986-95 which
FEN had prepared (as required by Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.)
It characterized the underlying assumptions as "fairly conservativen and
concluded that "The financial development of FEN is expected to proceed
smoothlyn. It did not present an analysis of projected annual rates of return
on equity.  Had it done so, this would have shown that they were forecast to
be about 20-22% in 1986-89 and 18% thereafter, and that these returns were
about equal to the eetimated yearly inflation rates.   Although it was
appropriate at the time to accept these forecasts as reasonable, FEN'S actual
performance in this respect has proved to be unfavorable (see para 5.46).

5.30   The mission'.^ terms of reference called for it to report on FEN's
organization and management, including "the changes that have recently taken
place through the incorporation of additional ataff...an  assessment of the
technical and financial evaluation of projects being carried-out by FEN and of
the suitability of their staffing, training and methods...(and) an assessment
of FEN'S ability to monitor and evaluate the finances of FEN's borrowers..."
(Memo., July 18, 1986). The mission's response to this (Supervision Report
dated September 16, 1986, Section IV and companion report, dated September 18,
1986, aeeeaaing FEN's potential role under the then proposed power sector
loan, section on "Organization and Administration") was perfunctory: a
description of FEN'S overall organization; a description of the reorganization
of the Technical Vice Presidency and a reference to the recruitment of
additional staff for this unit as recommended by the study described in para
5.9; a list of the thirteen professionals and their qualifications assigned to

thie Vice Preeidency; a judgment that FEN ia well prepared to undertake the
activities for which it wae created, qualified by the etatement that it ie too
early to aeeeee the efficiency of the technical etaff because they have not
yet had much opportunity to demonetrate their capabilities; and a
recommendation that future mieeione ahould aeaeee the performance of thie
etaff and what additional measures may be needed, such ae training or
recruiting additional pereonnel. Thie inadequate treatment demonetrates that
it was a eerioua mietake on the part of the Bank to aeeign exclueive
reeponeibility for thie eupervieion mieeion to a coneultant banking expert.
While thie coneultant wae well qualified to deal with development banking and
financial market ieeuee, he was lacking in expertiee to aeeeee FEN'a
capabilitiee to evaluate and monitor electricity projecte, and perhaps even to
aeaeee it8 ability to monitor the finances of the power companiee who were
FEN'a borrowere, a eubject which he failed to addreee. Had a member of the
Bank'e etaff experienced with power project8 aleo participated in thie
mieeion, thie omieeion would probably not have occurred and it ie likely that
a more eearching analyeie of the organization and management ieeuee would have
been made.  Although the reorganization of, and modeet expaneion of etaff
aeeigned to, the Technical Vice Preeidency had only recently occurred, it
ehould have been poeeible to arrive at preliminary judgments ae to how theee
recommended changes were working out and to decide whether it wae appropriate
then to recommend further use be made of the eervicea of the coneultant
reeponeible for the recommendatione to aeeiet in their implementation.

5.31   The coneultant'e limited fulfillment of one other task specified in hie
term8 of reference lead8 to a eimilar conclusion.  Thie relate8 to the
requirement that hie "report on compliance with loan condition8 ehould update
the one preeented in the November 11, 1985, eupervieion report and ehould
include your recommendations, if you identify a eituation of non-compliance."
Hie report, however, wae limited to a review of the conditione contained in
the Loan Agreement and omitted any reference to thoae in the Power Financing
and Guaranty Agreement8 which had aleo been covered in each of the previoue
eupervieion mieaione.  Thue he failed to review with FEN the etatue of
compliance by the power companiee with the revenue covenante and what action
FEN and the Government were taking where there wae non-compliance.  Nor did he
follow up on the non-fulfillment by the Government of its obligations to
prepare and publieh a price index for the power eector.  Again, it is unlikely
that theee omieeiona would have occurred if a member of the Bank'e etaff had
aleo been assigned to the eupervieion mieeion.

5.32   .O  ua te          r                 . The Bank's requirements for
periodic report8 were originally detailed in a letter to FEN dated July 13,
1984, which aleo eet forth the Bank'e viewe on eubproject information to be
included in eubloan applicatione. As propoeed in thie letter, FEN would have
included in each report information on the etatue of execution of each
eubproject it8 eubloane were financing, including a diecueeion of problems
encountered and eolutione proposed for dealing with them.  Thie euggeetion waa
reiterated in the Bank'e comment8 on the firat quarterly report submitted by
FEN covering the period ending Dec. 31, 1984 (Telex dated Feb. 22, 1985).  In
reply, FEN stated it had not contemplated that it would be neceeeary for FEN,
in ite capacity a8 a financial intermediary, to follow directly and report
quarterly the progreee in implementing projecte partially financed by the "A"
and "B" loans (Telex dated Feb. 28, 1985). Thie position was accepted by the
Bank.  The project record contain8 no explanation for thie change of view.

Presumably the Bank recognized that it would be premature to place this burden
on the newly created FEN and that the status of implementation of project8
directly financed by Bank loans would be reported to it in the quarterly
reports provided by the power companies involved.

5.33  As agreed with the Bank, the quarterly report8 contained a main text
which provided information on the status of: (i) diebursement of the "A" and
"Bn loans into the special accounts at the Central Bank; (ii) contracting of
subloans including sources of funds allocated thereunder; (iii) subloan
disbursements; and (iv) balances in the special accounts. Also included was a
detailed schedule of ~roiectcosts which implicitly defined costs as the
amounte to be provided by FEN ae eubloans and distinguished between foreign
and local costs in terms of the currency of the expenditures so financed.     It
contained a break down for each subloan of the amounts of financing allocated
from the "A" and "B" loans to particular projects (8.g. San Carlos or Playas)
and works (e.g. a named transmission line or substation), and these amounts
were also broken down to show foreign and local expenditures separately. This
data was presented separately by source of financing: Bank financing from the
"An loan, the Bank's share of each of the "B" loans, and each of the "B" loans
excluding the Bank's ehare.  One eet of columns showed the project cost as
originally established when the subloans were contracted, and a second set as
last revised to reflect the changes in allocations proposed by FEN and agreed
by the Bank during project implementation. A final set of columns showed the
total amount8 diebureed to date for each line item by source of financing but
without distinguishing whether the expenditures actually so financed were
foreign or local. The reports aleo included annexes listina the items for
fandwhichwere                             during the quarter
financed from the 'An loan and the Bank's share of the "B" loans; this
listing identified, for civil works, equipment and materials, the pertinent
contract, the bills and their amounts, and, for intereet during construction,
the pertinent loan, the amounts and dates of the paymente.     Finally, the
quarterly reports contained an annex showing the status of com~liancewith the
Joan conditions.

5.34   This comprehensive report was well designed, on the whole, to keep both
the borrower who prepared it and the Bank who received it informed on a timely
basis of the status of project implementation.       There was one significant
omission, however, in the list used to report on compliance with loan
conditions, which contributed to the ffz
ex~enditures. The list did not refer to that part of the covenant requiring
an annual audit of FEN'e accounts and financial statements which specifies
that the report of the independent auditor shall include a separate opinion as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan disbursed on the basis of statements of
expenditures (see para 4.21) were used for the purpose8 for which they were
provided (Section 4.02(a), Loan Agreement).     None of the audit reports contain
such a eeparate opinion, and in thoee audit reports which have a separate
section detailing compliance with financial covenants, this requirement is
aleo omitted.  It is implicit that the terms of reference for the audits did
not include thie task as part of the audit.      It is also significant that the
requirement to audit the statements of expenditures was not included in the
list of covenants for which an annual report of compliance was requested in
the Bank letter of July 13, 1984, which detailed reporting requirements. This
omission, and the failure ever to be aware during project supervision that the
statements of expenditures had not been audited, may be attributed to lack of

familiarity of t h e concerned projects s t a f f with the Bank's requirements for
statement8 of expenditurea because disbureement on t h i s basis was not normally
used for power projects.

5.35   The g          c                                                        may be
quertioned i n several respects.

       a.   There were only two occasions when Bank s t a f f who reviewed t h e
            reports made substantive comments on t h e Progress Reporting S l i p
            attached t o the reports f o r circulation purposes.            one was i n
            August 1985, when it was noted t h a t t h e report was incomplete.                A
             follow up letter was written (dated August 21, 1985) t o request
             inclusion i n t h e future of (i)sections reporting actions taken
            and progress achieved concerning improvement of FEN'S capacity t o
            analyze and evaluate the technical and financial merits of
            projects and t o mobilize domestic savings t o finance t h e power
             sector; and (ii)a section detailing the status of compliance with
            a l l loan conditions.         Although FEN replied t h a t it would comply
            with these requests (letter dated August 29, 1985), subsequent
            reports did not i n fact include t h e additional sections mentioned
            i n subdivision (i)of the preceding sentence.              The Bank, however,
            was otherwise able t o keep track of these matters (see paras 5.9
            and 5.13-5.21).           The second was i n February 1987 when a comment
            was made t h a t extension of the closing date had been approved t o
            permit completion of disbursements.

       b.   Beginning with the report for t h e eecond quarter of 1986, the
            annex on status of compliance with loan conditione wae limited t o
            covenants i n the Loan Agreement.            This change passed by unnoticed
            without a request by the Bank t h a t t h i s annex should continue t o
            include t h e Power Financing and Guaranty Agreements.

       c.   The much lower utilization r a t e of subloane by EPM i n comparison
            t o t h a t of the other power companies was never noticed and a s a
            r e s u l t no inquiry was made t o find out why it was occurring.
            EPM's relatively low r a t e was consistently reported i n a tabular
            analyeis of t h e utilization of subloans included i n the reports
            beginning with t h a t for the f i r s t quarter of 1985.        That i n i t i a l
            report showed no utilization by EPM, whereas t h e u t i l i z a t i o n r a t e
             for the other four companies ranged from 43%t o 92%. In t h e
            report for the third quarter of 1985, which was reviewed i n t h e
             f i e l d by the October 1985 eupervieion mission, EPM's u t i l i z a t i o n
            r a t e is l i s t e d a t 20%, whereas t h a t of the other companies ranged
             from 60%t o 100%. The situation i n t h i s respect which prevailed
            a t t h e t i m e of the Auguat 1986 supervision mission is described i n
            para 5.6.        By implication, it appears that the allocation of loan
             funds t o EPM exceeded its needs and t h a t consideration should have
            been given t o the feasibility of reallocating some funds t o other
            companies i n order t o accelerate disbursements.             The question also
            arise. whether FEN, l i k e the Bank, is culpable for f a i l i n g t o
            notice and consider EPM's low u t i l i z a t i o n r a t e a problem
            concerning which remedial action should be considered.               I f , on t h e
            contrary, it did take o r consider taking action i n t h i s respect,
            t h i s should have been highlighted i n its reports t o t h e Bank.             The

           Bank requested FEN to report problems encountered and eolutione
           proposed or effected to resolve them in its first letter to FEN
           describing reporting requirements and in the telex meeeage
                commenting on the first quarterly report submitted by FEN (see
           para 5.32).

5.36  There are some respects in which BK
would have been desirable.      One concerns the categories of expenditures
expected to be financed. As set forth in each subloan agreement, the amounte
allocated to each project (e.g. Guavio or Cerrejon 11) or work component (e,g.
a specified transmission line or substation) are subdivided among typee of
expenditure, such as civil works, equipment and materials, engineering and
administration, interest during construction and contingencies ("imprevietoen
or "por distribuir").      It would have been much more significant to compare the
actual expendituree with the original allocations broken down to ehow the type
of expendituree, rather than simply comparing total expenditures.      Aleo, it
would have been useful if there had been understandings on how various limits
on financing agreed with the Bank and the commercial banke would be tracked to
eneure that the limits were observed.      Specifically, this applies tor

       a.       Su~plementaland overrun financinq.   For projects already partly
                financed by the Bank, project cost Overruns were not eligible for
                Bank financing except for the Mesitas Project (Supplemental
                Letter /2, June 27, 1984); as a consequence, in all other caeee
                involving supplemental Bank financing under this project for civil
            works, goods and services, the amount of such financing wae to be
                limited to the amount of project costs originally expected to be
                financed by commercial lenders, to the extent such financing had
                not been forthcoming. As stated in para 4.24, it wae intended
                that these limits would be taken into account in approving
                subloans; while his was a reasonable approach a review of how this
            worked out would have been desirable as part of FEN's final
                report.

       b.   -q.                         In the case of the Bank, financing of
                expenditures prior to the date of the loan agreement8 (June 27,
                1984) were to be limited to US$29 million from the "A" loan and
            the Bank's portion of the "B" loans, for payments after January 1,
                1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 (d) and Supplemental Letter $2,
                June 27, 1984; and in the case of the US$175 million "B" loan,
                exclueive of the Bank's share, financing of expendituree incurred
                or paid after January 1, 1983 was limited to USS50 million for
                expenditures incurred and paid before January 1, 1984 (Loan
           Agreement, Clause 5 (B) (c)).

       c.   Foreisn Costs.      With respect to civil work costs, as earlier
                discussed in paras. 4.22 and 4.24, the disbursement proceduree
                followed by FEN and accepted by the Bank, did not ensure that
                financing under the project was limited to foreign coete, ae was
           expected. (See the statement that subloans under the project would
                finance foreign costs and the analysis of the financing of the
           project'e total estimated foreign coste in the Staff Appraisal
           Report No. 4771-CO, paras 4.07-4.08 and in the Preeident'e Report
           No. P-3750-CO, para 58).       This was a specified requirement for

               Bank financing (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 (d) (iii)and
               Supplemental L e t t e r #2, June 27, 1984).             It wae simply an
               expectation, and not a formal requirement, f o r t h e commercial bank
               financing.

With respect t o t h e limits on retroactive and foreign coet financing,
pertinent data ehould have been provided routinely, i f not ae p a r t of t h e
quarterly reporte, then lee8 frequently, perhaps annually.                      I n any case, FEN
ehould have been requeeted t o comment on a l l t h r e e of theee mattere a s p a r t of
FEN'e Final Report.        The eignificance of theee comments should not be
overstated, eince, on t h e baeie of t h e overall review of t h e project record,
it doee not appear that deviatione, i f any, from theee financing limite were
material.     The f a c t remaine, however, t h a t ae mattere now etand, one cannot be
certain t h a t they w e r e obeerved.

5.37     The differences between t h e                                        a s applied a t
appraisal and eubeequently during project implementation deserve comment.                        Ae
presented i n t h e appraieal report, t h e eetimated coet of t h e project was t h e
eum of t h e coste eetimated t o be incurred by ISA, EEEB, EPM and CVC during
1984 and 1985 f o r ongoing works, i n t e r e s t during construction related thereto
and etudiee. (See Staff Appraisal Report No. 4771-CO, para 4.08 and Annex
5.39.)    On t h i e basie, t h e project cost i n current money terms wae eetimated
t o be US$1,602 million, of which t h e eetimated foreign coete w e r e USS898
million and local coete w e r e USS704 million.             This wae exclusive of eetimated
inveetmente of USS377 million i n projects of other u t i l i t i e e , USS70 million i n
working c a p i t a l increases and USS645 million f o r future construction, i.e.
projects juet a t a r t i n g o r recently begun.        The costa of t h e construction
programs of CORELCA and ICEL w e r e also excluded eince t h e i r participation i n
t h e project was uncertain.          A8 proposed by t h e Bank i n its letter of July 13,
1984, explaining reporting requirements, t h i a concept would have been
continued.     What was propoeed wae a table which would have comparative columns
ehowing local, foreign and t o t a l coete as eetimated at appraisal and a8 l a e t
revised, followed by columns which would show disbureemente t o date and funde
remaining t o be diebureed. The "coste" t o be financed by t h e "A" and "B" loans
would be l i s t e d i n d e t a i l with separate l i n e items ehowing t h e source and
amounte of financing t o be provided f o r each subloan, i n a format l i k e t h a t
described i n para 5.33; followed by a section consisting of one l i n e i t e m
labelled "Ongoing works committed under other financing1'; and a f i n a l l i n e f o r
"Total Coet."       The t o t a l s i n t h e column showing t h e "Original Project Coet
Estimate" would add up t o US$1,602 million, eubdivided between local and
foreign coets a s ehown i n t h e appraieal report; t h e subtotal f o r t h e project
coete financed by t h e "A" and "B" loane would be USS370 million; and t h e
eubtotale f o r t h e "Ongoing Worke" would be t h e difference8 between t h e Total
Costs and t h e amounts financed by t h e "A" and "B"             loane.     A s propoeed i n t h e
July 13, 1984, letter, a l l of t h e financing provided by t h e "A" and "B" loane
would have been ehown a s f o r foreign coete.             This was consistent with t h e
analyeie presented i n t h e appraisal report (para 4.08), which applied t h e
Bank'e broad definition of foreign costa a s including indirect foreign coste
paid f o r i n local currency.          I n t h e report of t h e f i r e t supervision mieeion
(dated October 10,1984, Annex 7 , para 5 ) , t h i e wae changed t o show t h e
eetimated amounte of financing expected t o be provided ae subloane t o each of
the power companies, divided between foreign and local costa.                      The amounts
ueed are identical with those i n a table i n t h e project f i l e s which apparently
record8 an underetanding reached during negotiation8 a s t o t h e allocation of

t h e project financing and which dietinguiehee foreign and local coete on the
baeie of the currency of payment (Distribution Credito FEN-BIRF, March 1984,
Doc. No. 287.062 -9).

5.38         The f i r s t three supervision missions included i n t h e i r reporte a
presentation of project coete on t h e baeie just described, including f o r t h e
l a e t two a comparieon of the appraisal eetimate with a new eetimate.               The
l a t t e r , however, reflected only eome minor changes eince appraisal i n the US$
valuee of t h e Japaneae yen financing component of the "B" loans; no changes
from t h e appraisal eetimatee w e r e made i n the figures presented for the
"Balance of Ongoing Worke", even ae l a t e ae the t h i r d mieeion i n October 1985.
Nor wae there any recognition that i f t h i e concept were t o be followed, it
would be neceeeary t o increaee the amounte ehown ae "Total Project Cost" and
"Balance of Ongoing Worke" t o include the balance of t h e 1984 and 1985
construction programs of CORELCA, once it was determined t h a t some of the "B"
loan financing would be allocated t o it.

5.39         For purpoeee of the quarterly progreee reporte, FEN was not required t o
report project coete on the baeie proposed i n the July 13, 1984 letter;
instead, as deecribed i n para 5.33, it followed a definition of project costs
limited t o t h e amount of t h e financing provided under t h e project'e eubloane.
The project record does not contain an explanation why the Bank choee not t o
ineiet on i t e original propoeal.          Preeumably, however, ae indicated i n para
5.32 f o r a eimilar ieeue, the Bank recognized that it would not be feasible t o
expect the newly created FEN t o implement euch a proposal.                 The Bank made no
e f f o r t during project implementation t o arrange with FEN t o obtain the data
needed t o compare t h e actual coete which the f i v e companiee involved incurred
f o r t h e i r construction programe i n 1984 and 1985 with t h e appraisal eetimatee;
nor did it arrange t o obtain the complementary data needed t o compare t h e i r
actual and estimated financing plane for theee yeare which would be an
eeeential part of any euch comparieon.               Thus, t h i e epecific comparieon i e
unavailable f o r purpoeee of t h i e report, and the eector context, which it
would have provided, f o r evaluating the performance under t h i s project of FEN,
t h e Government and the Bank, i e lacking.              Thie i e not a eerioue shortcoming
eince t h e eector context i e w e l l known i n broad terms through the Power Sector
Adjustment Loan (President's Report NO. P-4676-CO,                November 10, 1987) and the
evaluation, "Colombia, The Power Sector and the World Bank, 1970-1987", ieeued
by t h e Operatione Evaluation Department (Report No. 8893, June 28, 1990).




5.40         Three significant developmente which occurred a f t e r completion of
diebureemente ehould be mentioned:            f i r s t , FEN'e unilateral eix month
extenaion, effective Auguat 1, 1988, of the period of amortization of
subloane; second, a temporary exception from the requirement that FEN'S debt
t o equity r a t i o ehould not be greater than 7:l granted November 15, 1989; and
third, the expaneion of FEN'e reeponeibilitiee i n 1990 and 1991, particularly
concerning i t e domeetic borrowing and lending activities.

5.41         1.
             a.  i x Mont                                                      The ieeuee
related t o FEN'e unilateral extension of the grace period f o r repayment of the
project eubloane are diecueeed i n d e t a i l i n Annex I. The main pointe are
eummarized i n the following paragraphs.

5.42          I n July 1988, FEN informed t h e Bank t h a t i t e Board of Directore had
adopted a resolution which extended t h e eubloan amortization period by eix
months.          Thie action was taken without prior coneultation with o r coneent by
t h e Bank.         Section 3.02 (b) of t h e Loan Agreement, however, providee t h a t ,
except ae t h e Bank ehall otherwise agree, FEN s h a l l not amend, o r f a i l t o
enforce any provision of, t h e eubsidiary loan agreemente.                 I n order t o
determine whether t o approve t h e action taken, t h e Bank i n Auguet 1988
requeeted FEN t o provide it with financial projectione f o r t h e next two yeare
eo t h a t it could eee how FEN'S financee were affected.                The Bank aleo aeked
FEN, when eimilar caeee a r i e e i n t h e future, t o provide it with an opportunity
t o comment before decieione a r e taken, ae required by t h e loan documente.

5.43          The requeeted financial projectione w e r e eent by FEN i n September.           An
internal s t a f f memorandum dated November 28, 1988, r e f e r e to, but doee not
include, actual and forecast financial etatemente f o r t h e period 1984-90
prepared from t h e information received from FEN and available i n t h e f i l e s .
The memorandum etatee t h a t theee ehow t h a t t h e exteneion of t h e eubloan
amortization period w i l l not have any material e f f e c t on FEN'e financee and
t h a t FEN would continue to have adequate financial ratioe.                Ae recommended i n
t h e memorandum, a letter wae eent on December 2, 1988, expreeeing no objection
t o t h e modification of t h e subsidiary loan agreements.              The letter emphasizee
t h a t t h e procedure u t i l i z e d by FEN t o modify t h e eubsidiary loan agreemente
without t h e Bank's prior agreement wae not i n accordance with Section 3.02 (b)
of t h e Loan Agreement, and it requests t h e pereonal intervention of FEN8e
Preeident t o ensure e t r i c t compliance i n t h e future with t h e provieions of t h e
loan documents.

5.44          The aforementioned memorandum wae prepared by an aeeietant level
analyet.          The f i l e copy of t h e letter notee t h a t it wae cleared i n substance
by a eenior financial analyet; t h i e matter, however, may have received only
cureory attention by him.              Coneidering t h e record a s it now exiete with eome
of t h e supporting material f o r t h e Bank's conclueione mieeing from t h e f i l e e ,
one i e l e f t with t h e impreseion t h a t t h e Bank'e financial analyeie wae
euperficial, and t h a t t h e Bank, having been presented with a f a i t accompli,
decided it had no choice but t o accede t o t h e exteneion with t h e admonition
t h a t FEN eeek t h e Bank's p r i o r approval f o r any future modificatione of t h e
eubeidiary loan agreemente.

5.45          On t h e baeie of a retroepective review, it appears t h a t had t h i e matter
been analyzed adequately, t h e Bank would have become aware of two important
iesuee: (i)t h e negative r e a l rate of return on equity earned by FEN since
1985; and (ii)t h e mismatch between t h e repayment terms of t h e external loane
f o r t h i e project and of t h e subloane made from these eourcee.            Had t h i e
occurred, t h e Bank could have euggeeted corrective meaeuree.

5.46          g.expreesed                                          The conclueion
i n t h e! aforementioned memorandum t h a t FEN would continue t o have adequate
f inanci a l ratioe wae inappropriate ineofar ae it applied t o FEN'S return on
equity.          A s indicated i n Part 111, Table 5.1,     FEN'S r e a l return on average
equity wae eignificantly positive i n 1983 and 1984.                It became marginally
negative in 1985 and eubetantially eo i n 1986 and 1987, when t h e nominal
return on equity f o r each of theee years was l6%, i n comparison t o rates of
i n f l a t i o n of 19%and 23%, reepectively.        The projectione supplied by FEN f o r
1988-90 e x p l i c i t l y called attention t o t h e expectation t h a t t h e r a t e of return

on equity f o r 1988 would be negative by about 10 percentage points.                             A s shown
i n Table 5.1, t h e actual nominal return on equity f o r 1988 was 16.7% compared
t o an i n f l a t i o n r a t e of 28.1%.     FEN'S projections t h a t its r e t u r n on equity
f o r 1989 and 1990 would match t h e i n f l a t i o n r a t e did not, however, prove t o be
accurate.          The actual return on equity i n 1989 w a s l6.6%, compared t o an
i n f l a t i o n r a t e of 25.8%, and i n 1990 t h e actual return was 23.9% compared t o
an i n f l a t i o n r a t e of 29.1%.     I n evaluating t h e j u s t i f i c a t i o n presented f o r t h e
extension, t h e Bank should have noted t h a t FEN'S rate of return on equity f o r
several years was substantially l e a s than t h e r a t e of i n f l a t i o n and inquired
i n t o t h e reasons f o r t h i s unsatisfactory relationship and t h e remedies t h a t
might be proposed f o r correcting it.

5.47          :
The s i x month extension of t h e grace period on t h e subloans postponed FEN'S
receipt of t h e i n i t i a l repayments otherwise due thereunder beginning i n
October 1988.             This action, taken a f t e r FEN'S repayments of t h e "A" and "B"
loans had begun i n June 1988, increased t h e amount of borrowings FEN had t o
make from t h e l o c a l c a p i t a l market t o m e e t its repayment obligation6 on t h e
external loans f o r t h e project.              The Bank made no specific analysis of FEN'S
s i t u a t i o n i n meeting its debt service requirements a s o r i g i n a l l y scheduled and
as modified because of the extension.                  Had t h i s been done, it would have
supported t h e Bank's concluoion t h a t t h e extension would not have a material
e f f e c t on FEN'S finances, because t h e significant borrowings which w e r e needed
would not have an adverse e f f e c t except b r i e f l y i n i t i a l l y .           Far more
important, however, t h e Bank would have realized t h a t t h e o r i g i n a l relending
arrangements, baaed on a 13 year term f o r t h e subloans, had r e s u l t e d i n a
significant mismatching of maturities of t h e subloans and of t h e foreign
loans, which w a s not anticipated when t h e project was appraised.                           The analysis
a l s o should have led t h e Bank t o consider t h e s i t u a t i o n which would have been
applicable i f t h e maximum 15 year term f o r subloans permissible under t h e
project agreements had been utilized.                  This a l t e r n a t i v e would have increased
substantially t h e amount and extent of borrowings by FEN needed t o m e e t debt
repayment obligations on t h e foreign loans which w e r e larger than t h e
repayments it received on t h e subloans.                On t h e other hand, it appears i n
retrospect t h a t i f t h e issues had been appropriately analyzed i n 1988, t h e
Bank would probably have concluded t h a t t h e r e was a compelling case t o
recommend aubatitution of an extended 15 year t e r m f o r t h e extended 13 year
term f o r t h e subloans.          This would have been based on a judgment t h a t t h e
higher amount of domestic borrowings needed could be raised by FEN without
adversely affecting its p r o f i t a b i l i t y , and t h a t FEN'S unprotected exposure t o
foreign exchange r i s k under t h e 13 year subloan term would be reduced.                           The
longer repayment period would a l s o have lessened t h e burden t h e power
companies w e r e experiencing i n meeting t h e i r debt service requirements, t h e
unstated reason f o r t h e extension.              This retrospective analysis a l s o
demonstrates t h a t t h e Bank's analysis of repayment terms during appraisal was
inadequate, and t h a t t h i s was t h e case t o o during supervision, when t h e d r a f t
subsidiary loan agreements submitted by FEN were reviewed and approved without
participation of a financial analyst.

5.48                 The Bank's f a i l u r e t o recognize, and adopt measures t o minimize,
t h e mimmatch between FEN'S repayment terms on t h e "A" and "B" loans and t h e
repayment terms t o FEN on t h e subloans made from those sources had adverse
consequences.            Of much greater significance, however, is t h e mismatch of t h e
short repayment terms of t h e loan c a p i t a l made available t o t h e power

companies from both foreign and domestic sources i n comparison t o the long
conetruction period8 and ueeful earning livee of the aeeets financed by these
loana.          Thie ieeue and etepa FEN might take t o provide euitable term
traneformation t o t h e power companies t o reaolve t h i e problem are diecueaed i n
paraa 5.62-5.64 and Annex 11. Such meaeurea would aleo eliminate the
miematching problem8 diecueeed herein for the period eubeequent t o t h e i r
adoption.

5.49          9.                                                                        Sincel988,
FEN haa not complied with it8 undertaking8 t o maintain its debtiequity r a t i o
within the l i m i t of 7 t o 1 and not t o incur any debt which would cauee it t o
exceed t h a t ratio, except ae the Bank ehall otherwise agree (Loan Agreement,
Sectiona 4.04 and 4.05).                 The ratio, a8 of the year end, was 7.4 i n 1988, 10.0
i n 1989 and 8.8 i n 1990.              The ehortfall i n required equity t o comply with
theee covenants a s of the year end wae about 6% f o r 1988, 44% for 1989 and 26%
for 1930.             In money terms, using year end exchange ratea, t h e ehortfall i n
required equity waa approximately ColS2.1 billion or USS6 million for 1988,
ColS18.2 billion or USS42 million for 1989 and ColS19 b i l l i o n o r USS33 million
f o r 1990.

5.50          For theee calculatione, the t o t a l atockholdere' equity hae been
compared t o t o t a l liabilities ae reported on FEN'e audited balance aheets.                     I n
the independent auditore' report on FEN'e compliance with t h i e covenant, the
equity baee i a limited t o t h e eum of paid-in-capital,                     legal reeerve and
retained earninge, and a l l other reserve8 and the amount credited t o equity ae
exchange adjuetmente are excluded.                 A s defined i n Section 4.05 of the Loan
Agreement, "equity" meane "the eurn of the t o t a l unimpaired paid-up capital,
retained earning8 and reeervea of the Borrower not allocated t o cover epecific
l i a b i l i t i e e . "  Under t h a t definition, the credit f o r exchange adjuetmente
ehould be coneidered t o be part of retained earninge, eince it ehould be
counted a s part of net profit8 ae etated i n Annex I, para 9.                        The treatment of
t h e other reeervee i e queationable.               Two of them, t h e reeerve deecribed aa "At
t h e Board'e d i e p ~ e a land~ t h e reeerve for "Donatione", appear t o be
                                    ~
allocatione of retained earninge made a s general provieione without any
epecific baaie or commitments, and i f t h a t i e ao they should be included as
part of equity.              The other two reeervee, for "Loan ProviaionsV1and "Taxation",
may aleo f a l l into t h i e category.           I f any of these allocations w e r e deemed t o
be necessary aimply ae general provieione for a particular expense category,
t h e more appropriate accounting treatment would be t o include them aa chargee
againat earnings on t h e income atatement and r e f l e c t t h e correeponding credite
under a heading other than "equity" on the balance eheet.                          For purpose8 of
t h i e report, a l l of the reeervee have been counted ae equity.                     I f it i e
eubeequently determined a f t e r further consideration t h a t some o r a l l of t h e
reeervee should be excluded, the ehortfall i n required equity w i l l be
increased.              For example, a t year end 1990, i f the reeerves f o r Loan Provieione
and Taxation were excluded, the debt equity r a t i o would be 9.0 and the
ehortfall i n equity would be 29% and amount t o ColS20.7 b i l l i o n o r USS36
million.

5.51          I n calculating the debtiequity ratio, t o t a l l i a b i l i t i e a are used
becauee t h e term "debt" i a defined i n Section 4.05 of t h e Loan Agreement t o
mean "any indebtedneea of t h e borrower".                The l i a b i l i t y baae uaed by t h e
independent auditore f o r calculating t h e r a t i o also include8 contingent
l i a b i l i t i e e for credite approved and not diabureed.              Thie approach has not

been followed for the ratios presented in the two preceding parae becauee
under Section 4.05 the amount of debt is limited to the extent to which it
"hae become outetanding".  Thus, the ratioe preeented herein are lower than
thoee cited in the independent auditors' reports because they are baeed on a
higher meaeure of stockholders' equity and a lower meaeure of total
liabilitiee than used by the auditors.

5.52   In epecifying debtiequity ratio limit6 in a capital etructure covenant,
the Bank's normal practice ie to define debt ae "any indebtedneee of the
borrower maturing by ite terme more than one year after the date on which it
ie originally incurred."  (See Operational Manual Statement No. 2.22, Annex 7,
Issued: February 1984.)  This definition was not applied for thie loan becauee
it wae expected that FEN would be raising eubetantial amounts of its borrowed
capital from the domeetic markets on a ehort term baeie in the expectation
that such short term borrowings would be refinanced or rolled over at
maturity.  In retroepect, it appeare that the definition adopted, "any
indebtednees", went further than wae neceseary, and that it would be poesible
to define "debt" to include such short term borrowing8 ae part of the prudent
capital structure limitation while excluding normal short term liabilitiee not
ueually counted for thie purpose.  If thie approach were applied as of the end
of 1990 and total liabilities were reduced by subtracting accounts payable and
certain other liabilitiee and accrued expeneee and provieions, the debtlequity
ratio would be 8.2 and the ehort fall in equity would be 17% and amount to
ColS12.2 billion or USS21.5 million.

5.53   The poesibility of increaeing the permiesible debt/equity ratio was
raieed inconclueively during project implementation. The banking expert who
carried out the fourth eupervieion mission in Auguet 1986 wae aleo asked to
assess FEN'S potential role under the power sector adjuetment loan then under
preparation.  Among the matters he was aeked to review was the reaeonableness
of the 7 to 1 debtiequity limit, including if neceeeary recommendation of an
alternative ratio (Terms of Reference, dated July 18, 1986).  He proposed that
the limit be raised to 12 to 1 in order to accommodate proposed borrowing
levels and provide room for additional borrowing.  The higher ratio, in his
opinion, "would remain at a level that ie acceptable by usual banking
standarde."  His analysis wae baeed on the financial forecaets prepared by FEN
(mentioned in para 5.29) which made no allowance for its participation in the
power sector adjustment loan.  Thie analysis showed that from 1986 to 1989,
FEN'S outetanding debt was otherwise expected to increase from the equivalent
of USS411 million to USS527 million, or by 28%.  Under the 7 to 1 debtiequity
limit, additional debt would be permissible equivalent in amount to USS364
million in 1986 rising to USS696 million in 1989. Under a 12 to 1 limit, the
additional permiseible debt would amount to USS918 million in 1986 rieing to
USS1.57 billion in 1989.  Although this analyeis doee not present a prima
facie case for any immediate increase in the debt/equity ratio limit, nor for
one so large as recommended, the routing memorandum (dated September 18, 1986)
which circulated thie report noted that the acting divieion chief concurred in
the recommendation.  No action was taken on thie recommendation, probably
becauee it wae subsequently decided not to utilize FEN as an intermediary for
the power sector adjuetment loan.

5.54   By letter dated June 20, 1989, FEN requested a temporary exception from
the 7 to 1 debtiequity limitation. FEN referred to eeveral major foreign
credite to be made available to it shortly which would cause it to exceed thie

limit.       It also referred t o pending legislation which would expand its
reeponeibility t o t h e energy sector and pursuant t o which FEN would receive
additional c a p i t a l contributions of about Co1$30 b i l l i o n i n 1989.        It stated
t h a t t h i s would bring it back i n t o compliance with t h e debt/equity l i m i t .         It
concluded with a statement of its intentions t o submit information by t h e end
of 1989 i n support of a request f o r a permanent increase i n t h e              debt l i m i t .
This request w a s endoreed by a letter from t h e Minister of Finance dated July
10, 1989.         Subsequently, a t t h e request of t h e Bank, t h e Minister of Finance
i n a letter dated August 31, 1989, informed t h e Bank t h a t t h e Government had
requested t h e Colombian Congress t o authorize contributions of c a p i t a l t o FEN
i n an amount s u f f i c i e n t t o bring it back i n t o compliance with t h e agreed debt
limitation by June 30, 1989.             This letter may have been l o s t i n t h e mail o r
misplaced, but a f t e r receipt of a copy submitted by FEN, t h e Bank agreed, i n a
t e l e x dated November 15, 1989, t o a temporary exception from t h e covenanted
debt l i m i t u n t i l June 30, 1989.

5.55        The new law expanding FEN'S responsibilities and authorizing large
increases i n its c a p i t a l was not enacted u n t i l February 8, 1990.          On June 28,
1990, FEN requested an extension of t h e temporary exception u n t i l t h e end of
1990 ( t h i s letter is missing from t h e f i l e s ) .      This request was endorsed       by
t h e Minister of Finance i n a letter dated July 3, 1990.                There is nothing i n
t h e f i l e s t o indicate what action i f any t h e Bank took on t h i s request, but
presumably it w a s granted.           In December 1990, t h e f i r s t increment of equity
capital t o be provided t o FEN under t h i s law was paid i n by t h e Government i n
t h e amount of ColS19.76 billion, equivalent a t t h e year end exchange r a t e t o
about US$35 million.          A s indicated above i n paras 5.49 and 5.50, t h i s was not
sufficient t o bring FEN back into compliance with t h e covenanted debt l i m i t .
I n September 1991, FEN requested comments from t h e Bank and t h e Interamerican
Development Bank (IDB) on a proposed increase of FEN'S debt/equity r a t i o ; and
i n December 1991, FEN provided supporting information t o its request f o r a
waiver of t h e negative pledge clause covenanted with both institutions.                    FEN
pointe out t h a t under new legislation (Law 1731 of July 4, 1991) FEN now
operates under t h e r u l e s and regulations applicable t o financial corporations
i n Colombia.        FEN proposes t h a t t h e covenanted debt/equity r a t i o of 7:l be
amended t o conform t o t h e l i m i t s allowed by Colombian law which allows a
maximum r a t i o of risk-weighted-assets t o equity of 12:l.              Under t h i s approach,
t h e r i s k adjusted basis of assets may range from zero r i s k t o 100%r i s k ,
including intermediate points.            To t h e extent t h a t assets have less than 100%
risk, a risk-weighted-assets t o equity r a t i o t r a n s l a t e s i n t o a higher
debt/equity r a t i o because a corresponding amount of l i a b i l i t i e s which financed
these assets is not counted i n t h e risk-weighted-assets t o equity ratio.                   This
has its biggest impact i n FEN'S case f o r t h e large amount of loans t o power
companies financed from foreign loans which w e r e guaranteed by t h e Government
and a r e therefore claesified a s having zero risk.               Thus, a s of August 31,
1991, FEN'e risk-weighted-assets t o equity r a t i o w a s only 0.9:l            when its
eetimated debt/equity r a t i o was 11:l. I f FEN w e r e t o increase its risk-
weighted-aesets t o equity r a t i o t o t h e l i m i t of 12:1, it would mean an
increase i n its debt/equity r a t i o t o about 20:l o r more.            Both t h e Bank and
IDB are evaluating FEN'S requests i n t h e context of t h e r o l e and financial
r i s k under which FEN w i l l be expected t o operate i n t h e future.          This w i l l
depend on t h e f i n a l structure of t h e power sector, currently being debated i n
Colosnbia ae p a r t of t h e proposed new e l e c t r i c i t y law drafted i n December 1991,
which may allow greater private participation i n t h e power sector.
consideration should a l s o be given t o t h e increased r i s k FEN is now taking f o r

its domestic borrowings (see reference t o Law 51 of 1990, next para) and the
further r i s k s it would take i f it expands its term transformation r o l e (see
Annex 2)   .

5.56    5.                                                                          Two laws
enacted i n 1990 substantially increased FEN's scope of operations.                    One of
these, Law 25 of 1990, is mentioned i n the preceding para.              This law
authorizes FEN not only t o finance investment programs and projects, but also
t o refinance debt service obligations i n order t o rationalize t h e functioning
of t h e energy sector i n accordance with t h e Government's policies.
specifically, FEN         is authorized to: (i)make loans t o sector entities t o
finance debt service payments due on foreign loans o r the domestic obligations
derived from such loans; o r (ii)t o assume obligations of sector e n t i t i e s
under loan contracts i n exchange for new credits under which t h e obligations
assumed by FEN would be repaid t o it under new terms and conditions and the
Government's guaranty of the original loans would continue t o apply t o t h e new
credits owed t o FEN.         A s stated previously, Law 25 also authorized large
additions t o FEN's equity capital.           Reflecting the expansion of FEN's
responsibilities t o include the e n t i r e energy sector, t h i s law changed its
name t o Financiera Energetica Nacional.           Most of FEN's a c t i v i t i e s , however,
continue t o be primarily focussed on t h e power eector.         The second statute,
Law 51 of December 28, 1990, modified Law 25 t o delete t h e requirement t h a t
FEN c r e d i t s made from domestic savings must have a bank guaranty o r be
rediscounted.          It also authorizes FEN t o determine the terms and conditions t o
be m e t by borrowers t o be e l i g i b l e for loans from FEN and t o undertake
fiduciary operations when deemed necessary t o reorganize the finances of the
sector.

5.57     FEN'S annual report for 1990 (English version, page 15) reports an
additional development which would permit FEN t o participate more actively i n
the national savings market and funnel a greater volume of resources t o the
power sector.          This was the action of the Monetary Board i n November 1990
authorizing FEN t o a t t r a c t the domestic savings it considere necessary and
eliminating previously existing l i m i t s on amounts raised from t h e local
capital markets.

5.58     J i ) Lendinq t o Refinance Foreian Debt Service.       The eteps taken i n
1990, explained i n the two previous paras, w e r e designed t o give FEN a new
function, which is described i n t h e 1990 Annual Report (page 22) a s "External
Debt Service Support Loans - CADEX".            This replaces a previous program, FODEX
(Foreign Exchange Fund), utilized by the Government t o make peso loans t o
Government e n t i t i e s , and most importantly the power companies, t h a t otherwise
would have had insufficient peso funds available t o purchase t h e foreign
exchange needed t o meet t h e i r debt service obligations on Government
guaranteed foreign loans.            FODEX had two sources of funds for these loans:
surplusee accumulated by other Government entities, such a s t h e Coffee Fund;
and, t o t h e extent t h a t t h i s source was insufficient, funds made available by
the Central Bank on behalf of the Government.            The surpluses of t h e other
Government e n t i t i e s w e r e loaned t o FODEX on short terms and onlent by it on
similar terms. FODEX loane funded by the Central Bank on behalf of t h e
Government were repayable over somewhat longer terms.            Repayment of t h i e
second category of FODEX loans is one of t h e sources authorized under Law 25
t o be u t i l i z e d by the Government t o increase FEN's equity capital.

5.59   Under the CADEX program, payments of US$169 million owed by power
companies to foreign lenders and euppliers were budgeted to be financed for
the second semester of 1990. FEN'e eources for providing this financing are
listed ae US$72.5 million from the 1989-90 Integrated Loan Facility (i.e. the
"Challenger" foreign commercial bank loan); US$37 million from capital
increases; and USS59.5 million from "others, Short Term" (presumably FEN's
borrowings from domestic eavings).  Actual remittances abroad under the CADEX
program, which had been operating since September, amounted to USS127 million
by year end 1990, and the balance of the budget remained to be drawn down in
1991 (1990 Annual Report, English version, pages 9, 22 and 23).

5.60   FEN'S domestic borrowings increaeed by Col$16,394 million in 1990,
mainly during the last two months of the year (ibid, page 14).  This plus the
capital increase of ColS19,760 million pesos in December were the apparent
sources for Co1$32,029 million of direct short term loans to power companies
made in 1990 and outstanding at year end (Audited Financial Statements, Annex
No. 1, page 2).  It is implicit that these direct loans were made under the
CADEX program and that all loans from domestic sources made by FEN in 1990
under the CADEX program were short term.

5.61   During 1991, the outstanding amount of FEN'e domestic borrowings
increased 5.4 times from Co1$65,729 million at the end of 1990 to Co1$356,894
million at the end of 1991 (FEN's letter, dated 3 January 1992, commenting on
a draft of this report). As a result of eteps taken in 1991, including
freeing the peso so that eince October 1991 most foreign exchange
transactions, including thoee of FEN and the power companies, take place in
the market, there has been a eubetantial real appreciation of the peso in
relation to the US$.  Thus, converting the peso values of domestic borrowings
into US$ at the exchange rate that prevailed at the end of 1990 (ColS568.73)
and the parallel market rate at the end of 1991 (Co1$633.68), domestic
borrowings increased from the equivalent of USS115.6 million to USS563.2
million, or by almost five times. The dollar equivalent values are
significant because the domeetic borrowings were used principally to finance
debt service payments of the power companies due on loans guaranteed by the
Government, i.e. foreign loane.

5.62   Financial assistance to the power companies to meet their debt service
obligations is needed becauee the repayment terme of their loan financing
impose financial burdens on them which are not reasonably related to their
earning power, even assuming that they were efficiently operated and managed
and the level and structure of their tariffs were appropriate.  This mismatch
between lending terms and earning power was not deemed to be a problem when
the arrangements for this project were agreed in 1984. At that time it wae
anticipated that for 1984-87 the individual companies, except for the CORELCA
and ICEL groupe, would have adequate debt service coverage and make
substantial contributions to their capital requirements from net internal cash
generation (SAR Report No. 4771-CO, Section 5).  By the time the Power Sector
Adjuetment Loan was agreed in 1987, the mismatch wae prominently mentioned as
one of the factors to which the financial difficulties of the power sector can
be attributed. The Preeident'e Report for this loan mentions that the average
term of eector debt is short (about 10 years) compared with the average life
of power investment8 which normally exceeds 25 years, and that grace periode
are much shorter than the conetruction time required for projects (Report No.
P-4676-CO, para 61). As then analyzed, the resultant problems were considered

limited to the period 1987-90, years when the sector's debt service coverage8
would be marginally negative or barely positive (minus or plus about 9%).
Under the financing plan designed for this period, it was expected that the
sector's capital and debt service requirements would be met by supplementing
internally generated funds with a large infueion of equity capital, mainly
funded by the Bank's loan, and a borrowing program which was very large in
groas terms but modest in net terms after allowing for debt amortization
requirements.  Implicitly, some of the foreign commercial bank financing
included in the borrowing program would be used to refinance some outstanding
debt. No such assistance was deemed needed for the years 1991-92, for which
the projections indicated the debt service coverage would be 1.24 times (ibid,
paras 99-101).

5.63   Jii) Need for More Ambitious and Systematic Term Transformation. In
actuality, because most if not all the power companies have found it
impossible to service their outstanding loans as well as meet all their other
funds requirements, resort has been made to a series of ad hoc solutions.
FEN'S role in this context has included onlending the share, designated for
the power utilities, of new foreign commercial bank loans obtained by Colombia
to refinance current amortization payments falling due on them.  Although this
has effectively extended some principal repayments on such loans, it has only
partially mitigated the problems confronting the utilities because repayment
terms on their loan financing are too short.  Peso advances to the power
utilities to meet their foreign debt service requirements have also been
provided from FODEX, but since the obligations to repay these advances were
short or medium term, the relief they provided has been temporary.   This
conclusion apparently also is applicable to the CADEX program.  Moreover, even
the repayment terms of the domestic loans provided by FEN for investment
purpoaes are too short: seven years including a grace period of one year.

5.64   The problems resulting from unsuitable repayment terms on borrowings
are accentuated because, under the Bank's standard approach for measuring
financial performance for purposes both of analysis and compliance with loan
covenants, all debt service requirements, except for capitalized interest
during construction, are counted to determine debt service coverage and
contribution to expansion from net internally generated funds.   In the case of
the power sector in Colombia, as well as many other countries, this has
resulted in a gross exaggeration of debt service requirements in relation to
realistic measures of the reasonable earning power of the sector and
individual utility companies.  To apply effective and realistically achievable
financial discipline to the performance of Colombia's power utilities, much
more ambitious term transformation provided on a eystematic and transparent
basis would be needed.  See para 8.19 (h) and Annex I1 for recommendations as
to how this might be accomplished through FEN.

Financial Performance

5.65   Table 5.2 of Part I11 compares FEN'S actual performance for the yeare
1983-1990 with the projections made at appraisal for the years 1983-1987 in
terms of comparative balance sheets and the key financial indicators set forth
in Annex 2.13 of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4771-CO).  Previous sections
of this report have dealt with FEN'S financial performance in relation to its
domestic borrowing and lending programs (paras 5.17-5.21), return on equity
(para 5.46) and debt/equity ratios (para 5.49-5.55).   The discussion which

followa related t o Table 5.2 aupplementa the previoue comment8 with particular
focus on two of the ratios, grose epread and annual increment i n net worth.

5.66     Groes apread (net income aa a percentage of year end t o t a l aseete) i e a
meaeure of profitability.        Actual performance i n t h i s respect compared
favorably with the appraisal estimate8 f o r 1983-1985 and unfavorably for 1986
and 1987.       The drop i n the actual epread from 4.4% i n 1985 t o 2.7% i n 1986
(compared t o appraisal estimate6 of 4.6% and 3.50, respectively) continued i n
aubaequent yeare t o 1.4% i n 1989 and 1.6% i n 1990.            The annual increment i n
net worth i e another meaeure of profitability Since virtually a l l of FEN'e net
income i e retained ae part of its net worth.              Like the groaa apread, the
actual increment6 i n net worth compare favorably t o the appraieal eetimatea
for the years 1983-1985 and unfavorably f o r the next two yeara.                The
subatantial decline i n FEN8s p r o f i t a b i l i t y which occurred i n t h e yeare
aubaequent t o 1985 i a indicated by the drop i n actual annual increments of net
worth from a range of 26%t o 34% f o r 1983-1985 t o a range of 17%t o 18%f o r
1986-1989 and the recovery t o 27% i n 1990.            Thie meaeure l i k e the r a t e of
return on equity (i.e. net worth) i n Table 5.1, when compared t o t h e r a t e of
inflation, is indicative of the adequacy of FEN'e p r o f i t a b i l i t y t o preaerve
i t e capital i n r e a l terma.  The inflation rate8 for each of the yeare 1986-
1990, ranging from 19%t o 299, are ehown i n Table 5.1.              Aa a reeult of t h e
negative r e a l rates of return earned on equity eince 1985 (aee para 5.46),
there hae been an eroeion of about 11%i n the r e a l value of FEN'e net worth
from t h e end of 1983 t o the end of 1990, excluding f o r t h i a purpose the
additional equity of ColS19,760 million paid i n by t h e Government i n December
1990.

5.67    The decline i n FEN'S profitability eince 1985 i a due t o several
factors:

        F i r s t and foremost, FEN8e exemption from income taxea terminated a t the
        end of 1985.

        Second, the lending ratee for FEN'e domeatic loana were fixed for the
         f u l l period of theae loane (increaeed from five t o seven yeare i n June
        1985     - aee para 5.26) whereae i t a domestic borrowing coete w e r e
        increasing from average annual ratee of about 31% i n 1986 t o 37% i n
         1989 and 1990.      The adverse impact thia hae had on FEN'S profitability
        haa t o eome extent been mitigated by the decline of t h e relative
        importance of FEN'e domestic loans t o its t o t a l income producing aeeeta
        from 26% i n 1986 t o 9% i n 1990.         I n 1989, when domeatic loana w e r e 13%
        of t o t a l income producing aaeeta, FEN had a negative margin (i.e it had
        loeses) on i t e dorneatic aaeeta, and it changed i t a policy t o link
        lending ratea on dorneatic loana t o i t e coat of money raieed i n t h e
        domestic capital market.       (FEN report dated July 12, 1991, "Analyeis
        Hiatorico de loe Eatadoa Financieroa            ... Periodo  1986-1990" obtained by
        t h e Bank i n April 1992.)

        Third, FEN wae required t o include a s part of i t a expenses i n 1989 a
        proviaion of ColS752 million f o r the accumulated d e f i c i t i n a fiduciary
        account it had been managing since November 1984 involving the
        adminietration of Social Security Reaervea.              A charge of ColS120
        million wae aleo made i n 1990 f o r t h e loss on t h i s account incurred i n
        t h a t year.   The 1989 charge wae equivalent t o about 12%of i t e net

           income for t h a t year net of the charge.           For further d e t a i l s , including
           t h e implications for FEN'S future management of these resources, see
           Annex 11, para 35 ( v i ) .

It is clear that FEN'S lending margins have been inadequate t o maintain its
earnings a f t e r taxes a t a satisfactory level, namely a t l e a s t sufficient so
t h a t when retained and capitalized the r e a l value of its net worth is
preserved.        During project supervision, the Bank failed t o suggest t h a t an
increase i n margins would be required a f t e r FEN'S exemption from income taxes
was withdrawn; and it was not aware u n t i l recently of t h e inappropriate
arrangements f o r FEN'S domestic loans under which FEN was a t r i s k f o r
increases i n t h e costs of domestic borrowings needed t o maintain such loans
u n t i l repayment.    This is another i l l u s t r a t i o n of the inadequacies which
occurred i n supervising t h i s loan without participation of a s t a f f member who
was an expert on financial intermediaries and capital markets.

pro1e c t Risks

5.68       The two main sources of r i s k s of the project w e r e identified a t
appraisal, namely t h a t (i)t h a t t h e local currency share of investments would
not be available i n a timely manner and (ii)FEN would not be able t o f u l f i l l
its role as a development banking institution.                   Both sources proved t o have
significant consequences.          The inadequate local currency funding was due
primarily t o insufficient net internal cash generation, w e l l below t h e
appraisal estimates.          The major factors accounting for t h i s shortfall a r e (i)
lower revenues resulting from unanticipated decreases i n t h e r e a l t a r i f f level
and from actual sales growth inferior t o t h a t foreseen a t the time of the
appraisal; and (ii)much higher debt service on foreign borrowings caused by
very significant unforeseen changes i n exchange rates, namely a substantial
r e a l devaluation of the Colombian peso i n relation t o t h e US dollar and of the
US Dollar i n relation t o the basket of currencies (including t h e Japanese yen)
determining the foreign exchange r i s k of World Bank loans.                FEN was unable t o
f i l l t h e gap of local financing through mobilization of funds because it could
not lend t o the financially weak u t i l i t i e s through t h e financial system.              This
inhibited t h e a b i l i t y of FEN t o perform one c r i t i c a l function a s a development
banking institution: t h a t of supplier of domestic financing through
mobilization of funds i n the local market.                 The capacity t o i n s t i l l financial
discipline among its borrowers, another crucial function of a development
bank, could not be developed by FEN either, because a key variable for
achieving financial discipline          - t a r i f f adjustment    - was not within its
province and was not carried out by t h e responsible authorities i n l i n e with
the loan covenants.          Furthermore, there is no evidence t h a t FEN has attempted
t o perform its mandated role t o promote greater cost effectiveness among the
borrowers through its conditionality, o r that it has been instrumental i n
upgrading t h e i r accounting and control procedures.               FEN has been more a
passive outlet of funde t o a deficit-ridden sector than a t r u e development
banking institution.

5.69       I n both respecte, the r i s k s were substantially underestimated.                A s
pointed out previously, the r i s k s related t o FEN'S a b i l i t y t o f u l f i l l its
development banking role w e r e dismissed too blandly i n t h e s t a f f appraisal and
President's reports; i n t h i s respect, some of the d i f f i c u l t i e s FEN would
encounter should have been foreseen, and many of t h e t i m e t a r g e t s established
t o achieve specific r e s u l t s were unrealietically short (paras 4.11, 5.11 and

5.14).          The factore which resulted i n the deterioration of t h e financial
situation of many of t h e power companies, however, w e r e not reasonably
foreeeeable when the loan was made.



5.70          A major weakneee i n the Bank's eupervieion wae the f a i l u r e t o aseign t o
t h i e activity a etaff member who wae an expert on financial intermediariee and
capital markete.           The effectiveneee of t h e Bank'e efforte t o improve FEN'S
institutional capability would have been greatly improved had euch a etaff
member been made available and participated i n most, i f not a l l , of t h e
eupervieion mieeione.           It would aleo have been appropriate t o have designated
euch staff member ae t h e projecte officer.           Thie s t a f f member would have
provided an element which wae mieeing during t h e implementation of t h e
project: an expert repreeenting the Bank who would gain the confidence and
reepect of FEN official6 and who would have provided continuity t o t h e Bank'e
efforte t o encourage and when neceeeary prod FEN t o f u l f i l l the broad
development banking role envieaged f o r it. Aleo, had such a etaff member been
involved when the eubloan arrangements w e r e formulated, it is unlikely t h a t
the Bank would have failed t o be aware of and deal with t h e significant
mismatch between the repayment terme of FEN'S borrowinge f o r the project and
of the eubloane made from thoee borrowinge.              The e f f o r t of t h e responsible
project divieion t o obtain euch aesistance w a s uneucceeeful.                      Regional
management ehould have been more reeponeive; indeed, the need f o r t h i e
additional etaff support f o r t h e project should have been recognized, and
action taken t o provide it, ehortly a f t e r t h e decieion t o proceed with t h e
project i n January 1983.

5.71          On t h e Governrnent'e eide, a major factor affecting implementation was
the decieion t o let the r e a l t a r i f f levels f a l l a f t e r the 1985 devaluatione
(para. 8.3), eince it had a direct bearing on t h e internal financing of t h e
u t i l i t i e e . Thie reeulted i n the delay i n implementation of t h e echeme which
would have allowed FEN t o take a more active p a r t a s a financial inetitution,
lending local currency funde t o t h e u t i l i t i e s , and ae a development
inetitution capable of impoeing conditions t h a t would improve the financial
and managerial poeition of i t e borrowere. Theee two capabilities go hand-in-
hand eince the conditionality cannot be eucceeeful unleee a permanent
relationehip i e eetabliehed with the borrower t h a t would make it poeeible f o r
FEN t o demand actione t h a t would be p o l i t i c a l l y d i f f i c u l t t o implement for the
borrower, and t h a t would make it worthwhile f o r t h e beneficiariee of FEN loane
t o comply.         Thie relationehip, and the role of FEN a s a development
inetitution ae w e l l , w e r e element8 lacking i n t h e organization of t h e power
eector i n Colombia.          It remaine t o be eeen whether the efforts of the current
Government t o reinvigorate FEN w i l l be eucceeeful.


                                6.  MAJOR RESULTS OF THE PROJECT



Prolect Oblectivea

6.1           Of t h e two main project objective6 (para. 3.1), the f i r e t wae largely
achieved, although with delaye: t o provide the external financing required t o
euetain during 1984-85 the echeduled conetruction pace of eeveral high

priority e l e c t r i c i t y development projects.   The support of foreign commercial
lenders t o t h e power eector and t o Colombia, through a co-financing package
was obtained only f o r t h i s project.       The expectation t h a t there would be
subsequent co-financed projects involving t h e "A" and "B" loan format did not
materialize because the commercial banks withdrew from additional voluntary
lending t o Colombia and have limited new loans t o Colombia t o amounts
equivalent t o relending a l l o r most of the amortizations due on t h e i r previoua
loans.     Under t h i s new strategy, however, FEN has served as the intermediary
f o r t h e subetantial amounte destined for the e l e c t r i c i t y companies (para.
4.7).

6.2             L i t t l e progress was made i n achieving t h e second main objective t o
support the developnent of FEN i n several respects: t o serve a s an effective
channel for eector lending projects for power i n Colombia; t o monitor the
financial performance of t h e u t i l i t i e s and t o a s s i s t t h e strengthening of the
power sector financial management; and t o enhance its capacity t o mobilize
domestic savings.

6.3             FEN has not yet become an effective channel for aector lending
projects f o r power i n Colombia because it lacks the p o l i t i c a l and
institutional clout t o be an effective development bank and has not fully
developed its technical and managerial s k i l l s t o monitor and supervise t h e
technically stronger u t i l i t i e s .   A s previously noted, the impact of the
various project components deeigned t o strengthen FEN'S capabilities as a
power sector development bank has been insubstantial (paras 5.8-5.12).

6.4             Because of t h e financial weakness of most of the e l e c t r i c i t y
companies, there were severe constraints on FEN'S a b i l i t y t o channel funds
mobilized from t h e domestic capital market t o the u t i l i t i e s through the
financial system, without endangering its own financial a t a b i l i t y (paras 5.16-
5.20).     This has greatly limited its proved capacity for mobilizing domestic
savings t o complement t h e internal generation efforts of u t i l i t i e s .        U s e of
t h e government'a guaranty a s a way t o circumvent t h i s obstacle (see para 7.1)
has been counterproductive since it becomes a way for t h e discreet
encroachment of the u t i l i t i e s a s dependents of the central government budget,
and a permanent source of sector financial informality.




6.5        A t appraisal, the benefits of the project were presented i n qualitative
terms without quantifying a return on investment for t h e project (SAR No.
4771-C0, paras 4.13-4.14).            The qualitative benefits identified were mainly
thoee related t o t h e project objectives, the achievements with respect t o
which are discussed i n paras 6.1-6.4.            In lieu of a quantified return on
investment, the appraisal report stated that it has been established t h a t the
projects which a r e prospective subloan candidates would have higher internal
rates of return than the 130-150 estimated a t the time of original Bank
appraieal.      This claim and approach have been criticized i n a report issued by
t h e Operations Evaluation Department dated June 28, 1990, Report No. 8893,
Colombia      -The Power Sector and the World Bank, 1970-1977, Volume 11, Chapter
5, paras 56-62.

7.1          To eneure continued financing for t h e power sector through FEN, it is
neceseary t h a t t h e Government define more clearly its role a s a development
banking institution and gives its f u l l p o l i t i c a l backing t o t h i s role, s o t h a t
FEN can become an effective instrument for policy implementation and control,
and a poeitive element contributing t o t h e planning and forecasting of t h e
financial needs of t h e power (and energy) sector.                The current Government hae
taken a number of actions t o accomplish t h i s , but a s of t h i s writing (June
1992) t h e efficacy of t h e steps taken is still uncertain.              Prior t o these
recent changes, FEN had not functioned as a development bank eince it lacked a
base of credit-worthy potential borrowers and t h e capacity effectively t o
impoee financial and policy conditionality on its borrowers t o increase t h e i r
credit-worthinese.        It functioned merely as a window for quasi-fiscal spending
of t h e government, which choee t o support the power sector through
capitalization of t h e financial losees arising from arrears and defaulte of
the power eector u t i l i t i e s .    In part, t h i s has been accomplished through
relending t o t h e u t i l i t i e s by FEN of its assigned ehare of external credite t o
t h e Government and of t h e additional equity capital investments i n FEN made by
t h e Government i n 1990.         This was done rather than supporting t h e financially
weak enterprisee more transparently through direct budget support.                  This
policy choice negatively affects t h e sustainability of Bank sector financing
through FEN and, more seriously, it undermines t h e accountability of FEN a s a
financial institution and its prospects for survival a s a viable development
banking inetitution.         See para 9.1 for additional comments on the actions
taken by t h e Government i n 1990 t o increase FEN'S responsibilities and
authority and how t h i s may affect FEN'S future prospects.




m i o r Strenuthe and Weaknesses.

8.1          The major strength demonstrated by t h e Bank i n its handling of t h i s
project is its capacity and t h a t of its s t a f f t o be innovative and reepond
promptly to t h e power sector's need for additional financing for ongoing
projects.        Thie was a very significant accomplishment and wae achieved by (i)
deeigning very quickly a project which served a s a vehicle t o provide
supplementary Bank financing for previously financed Bank projects and also
a t t r a c t commercial bank cofinancing for these and other ongoing projects, and
(ii)overcoming the institutional barriers for the flexible treatment proposed
(para8 4.4-4.7).        The Bank should also be credited for t h e very subetantial
e f f o r t involving over 100 s t a f f weeke t o a e s i s t i n mobilizing the commercial
bank cofinancing for t h e project (memorandum t o f i l e s dated April 13,1984).
Deepite the limited progress made i n achieving t h e project's inetitution
building objective and t h e shortcomings i n t h e Bank'e performance noted i n t h e
next para, t h e project wae a worthwhile undertaking.               There was a genuine need
for an institution much a s FEN with t h e capabilities and responsibilities
which the Bank envisioned when t h e project was proposed, and there is still
such a need.       Of course, it would have been preferable i f t h e Bank had pursued
the appraieal report vision of FEN more effectively, but t h e opportunity t o do

so remains.  The leeeone learned in executing thie project should be valuable
in pointing the way to improved performance in the future.

8.2    The deficienciee in the Bank'e performance are eummarized below:

       (a) During the deeign and appraisal etage, the urgency of proceeding
       quickly resulted in eome propoeale not in conformity with Bank policieo
       for financial intermediaries (paras 4.13-4.15), Bank etaff was elow in
       addreeeing the Bank'e policy not to finance coet overrune except under
       special circumstances (parae 4.16-4.20), the design of the diebureement
       arrangements was inadequate (paras 4.21-4.24), and the financing
       requiremente for the 1984-85 project period were overeetimated (parae
       5.1-5.7).

       (b) The supervision of the project was not effective, indicating a lack
       of commitment of the Bank'e technical etaff with the project.   Thie ie
       reflected in

            the relative complaieance of the eupervieion reports and the
            Bank'e review of quarterly progreee report8 with the delays of the
            diebursemente of the subloane (parae 5.5, 5.6 and 5.35);

            the Bank's failure to maintain under thie project continuoue
            overeight of the performance of the utilities and the Government
            to meet the covenanted ratee of return and other obligations set
            forth in the Power Financing and Guarantee Agreements (paras 5.31
            and 5.35);

            the inadequate reeponee of the Bank to FEN'e decieion to extend
            the grace period of the subloane financed with funde obtained
            under loan 2401-CO and the co-financing agreements, without prior
            coneultation with or coneent by the Bank (parae 5.41-5.48);

            the Bank'e failure to obtain agreement on, and monitor during
            eupervieion, key financial indicators of FEN'S performance (paras
            5.24 and 5.25); and

            the Bank'e failure to be aware of, and requeet corrective action
            for, the decline in FEN'S rate of return on equity and the
            coneequent erosion of ite equity capital in real terms (paras
            5.28, 5.29 and 5.46).

       (c) The Bank miseed the opportunity to help establieh FEN ae a key
       planning and policy implementation inetrument because it did not pursue
       the appraisal report vieion of FEN ae a full-fledged development bank
       for the power eector (parae 5.30 and 5.67).

       (d) The Bank failed to recognize the need for much more ambitioue term
       traneformation than hae heretofore been attempted by FEN in order to
       (i) have a better match between loan repayment terme and the earning8
       generated by the inveetmente financed by the loane, and (ii) avoid the
       dietortione that occur in meaeuring financial performance baeed on
       exceeeive meaeuree of debt service requirements that result when it ie

       necessary to refinance debte incurred with repayment terme which were
       inappropriately ehort (parae 5.56-5.64).

Many of theee deficienciee are attributable to the Bank'e   failure to aeeign a
staff member who wae a epecialiet in financial intermediaries and capital
markets to be part of the team responeible for thie project and relying
instead on coneultant eervicee; the project'e handling wae also adversely
affected at t h e e during appraisal and eupervieion by the absence of a
qualified power utility financial analyst (e.g. paras. 5.23, 5.24 and 5.47).




8.3    FEN and other Colombian authorities have called attention to the very
large increaeee in the project's debt service costs in both Colombian peeo and
US dollar terms over what wae anticipated at appraieal.   The eubetantial
increases in debt service coete resulted from two eourcee: (i) the unexpected
acceleration in the mid-1980s of the crawling peg adjustment of the value of
the peso in relation to the dollar including a 51% devaluation in 1985 and
(ii) the unanticipated eubetantial devaluation of the dollar vie-a-vie the
Japanese yen (Y) and other foreign currencies euch as the Deuteche mark (DM)
beginning in 1985, which resulted in much higher debt eervice costs for the
"A" loan under the Bank'e currency pooling syetem and for the yen denominated
"B" loan.  Queetione have been raised about the adequacy of the Bank'e work
because of ite failure to provide eolutions which would have protected the
utilities and FEN againet theee unforeseen exchange rieke.   The diecueeion
which followe, parae. 8.4-8.18, wae written in, and reflects information on
exchange ratee available ae of, mid-november 1991.

8.4    Ae of Dec. 31, 1987, before repayment6 of the project loane began in
1988, there wae an increaee of 61% in the US dollar amount of the "A" loan
under the currency pooling eyetem (from US5170 million to US5274 million) and
an increaee of 80% in the yen portion of the "8" loan (from US525 million to
US545 million).   The US5 portion of the "B" loan (US5175 million), of course,
wae not affected by the devaluation of the US$, but the Colombian peso coat of
servicing it increased as a result of the unanticipated real devaluation of
the peeo in 1985. Since year end 1987, there has been a modeet and uneven
strengthening of the US$ againet the other currencies in the currency pool; ae
of June 30, 1991, a date representative of the peak of that upward movement,
the balance due on the "A" loan in US$ terme wae 51% more than the unadjusted
original principal amount (US5198 million compared to US5131 million).   More
recently, there has been eome weakening of the US$ eo that as of September 30,
1991, the balance due on the "A" loan in US$ terme wae 57% more than the
unadjusted original principal amount (US5195 million compared to USS124
million).  Compared to the exchange rate of Y123 per US$ as of the end of
1987, the rate improved eomewhat in favor of the US$ during 1988-90.   At ite
best during 1990, however, when the exchange rate averaged 145 to 1, the
additional US$ equivalent coste to eervice the yen portion of the "B" loan
were about 50% more than had the 220 to 1 rate in effect when the loan wae
arranged been applicable. The yen hae strengthened during 1991, and at the
rate of 130 to 1 applicable in mid-November 1991 the US$ value of the
remaining balance due on thie loan ie about 70% higher.   It ie clear that the
interest costa and debt repayment obligatione on the project loans, measured
in Colombian peeoe and US$, have increased markedly over what wae expected
when the loane were made and have impoeed a much higher debt eervice burden on

t h e p e r companies than then anticipated.                         This e f f e c t is compounded by t h e
impact of other foreign currency loans on t h e u t i l i t i e s ' financee.                      It hae
been eetimated, f o r example, t h a t t h e mid-1980s accelerated devaluation
increased t h e financial expenses of EEEB by threefold and of ISA by 60%.

8.5           The Bank's o f f i c i a l i n f l a t i o n and devaluation projections f o r 1983-87,
which were adopted i n consultation with Colombian authoritiee and u t i l i z e d f o r
t h e project appraieal, did not foresee an adjustment of t h e r e a l exchange
rate, although its index showed at the time (1983) that it had revalued by
about 30% against its level of 1974-75, which wae considered adequate i n t e r m s
of t h e t r a d e policy objectives.                This w a s public knowledge, and it did not
require an elaborate forecasting methodology t o predict t h a t a major nominal
devaluation would take place i n t h e following years.                           The Colombian
government, however, had committed i t s e l f t o a policy t h a t precluded a maxi-
devaluation.         Given t h i s commitment, most analysts agreed a t t h a t t i m e t h a t
t h e r e a l devaluation t h a t w a s needed could not be achieved i n t h e short run,
and t h e oolution wae assumed t o take place, more o r less gradually, over t h e
medium-run.          It came as a surprise, therefore, when a new Minister of Finance
achieved t h e exchange rate adjuetment within a year, i n 1985, by means of
accelerating t h e "crawling pegw to a level of about 50%p.a. t h a t had not
seemed poesible.          Thus, although t h e Bank and other analysts w e r e aware of t h e
need f o r adjuetment, t h e f a i l u r e t o forecast t h i s maxi-devaluation should not
be deemed a weakneee i n t h e forecasting, which was internally consistent and
took i n t o consideration t h e information available about future policy.                            The
maxi-devaluation was an event which was not reasonably foreeeeable i n 1983 and
early 1984, t h e period when t h e project appraisal was completed and t h e loan
w a s negotiated and approved.                 This is aleo t h e came f o r t h e very substantial
devaluation of t h e US$ against other currenciee included i n t h e Bank's
currency pool which has occurred subsequent t o mid-1985.




8.6           The Bank has been criticized, not f o r mistakes i n it8 forecasts of
i n f l a t i o n and devaluation, but f o r             it8 f a i l u r e t o provide contingent fall-back
mechanieme t o protect againet a major adjuetment of t h e r e a l exchange r a t e , an
event t h a t , it is aseerted, was l i k e l y to occur and t h a t would upset t h e
e n t i r e financial scenario f o r t h e power eector, a producer of non-tradeable6
par excellence.          It i e contended that the proper path would have been t o
eecure from t h e central bank adequate market-priced hedging mechanisms against
a maxi-devaluation,          and against t h e devaluation of t h e d o l l a r r e l a t i v e to
other currencies, s o t h a t t h e borrowing u t i l i t i e e would have only had t o bear
t h e r i s k of t h e normal "crawling-peg" devaluation of t h e peeo against t h e
dollar. It is a l s o aeserted t h a t i f these mechanisms had been i n place, t h e
financial c o s t s of t h e foreign indebtedness of t h e u t i l i t i e s would have been
kept within bounde, instead of t h e much greater burdens indicated i n para 8.4.



8.7           Ineofar a s t h i e criticism Fmpliee t h a t t h e suggested hedging mechanisms
ehould have been arranged during t h e design and appraieal etages of t h e
project and agreed during negotiations, it i e untenable.                               A s noted i n para
8.5, t h e r e was little o r no basie then t o expect e i t h e r t h e maxi-devaluation
of t h e Colombian peso i n r e l a t i o n t o t h e US$ o r t h e major devaluation of t h e
US$ i n r e l a t i o n to other currencies.                Accordingly, ae of 1983 and e a r l y 1984,
it is inappropriate t o characterize the poesibility of either of these events

occurring as "likely" and t o expect t h a t attention should have been given t o
t h e availability of hedging mechanisms i f they did.

8.8           Moreover, with respect t o a hedge against a maxi-devaluation,                 t h e
p r a c t i c a b i l i t y and m e r i t s of t h i s suggestion are questionable.     The Government
undoubtedly would have rejected and refused t o consider such a proposal at a
time when it was committed t o a policy of gradual r a t h e r than abrupt
adjustments i n t h e real exchange rate.                     I n any case, it is unclear how t h e
equivalent of an "adequate market price" f o r such a hedge would have been
determined.               I f t h e principles f o r pricing hedges i n competitive foreign
currency markets w e r e followed, t h e forward price f o r purchasing dollars with
pesos would be determined by increasing t h e spot market p r i c e by t h e r a t i o of
one plus t h e i n t e r e s t rate payable t o borrow pesos (actually o r implicitly
used t o acquire d o l l a r s a t t h e spot rate) t o one plus t h e i n t e r e s t r a t e which
would be earned (actually o r implicitly) on t h e d o l l a r s t o be delivered i n t h e
future.          This basis makes no allowance f o r any changes i n exchange rates other
than those implicit i n t h e d i f f e r e n t i a l i n t e r e s t rates.    Any allowance f o r a
possible change i n t h e real exchange r a t e would have t o be a r b i t r a r i l y
determined, and it is doubtful t h a t t h i s a r b i t r a r y determination would be
adequate t o compensate f u l l y f o r t h e devaluation.               The Government and t h e
Central Bank would a l s o be under preseure t o provide eimilar protection
against a real devaluation from a l l other creditors exposed t o t h i s r i s k and
not l i m i t it t o producers of non-tradeable6 such as t h e power companies.
Thus, a policy under which t h e Central Bank would have provided special
protection against a maxi-devaluation is probably one under which t h e r e would
have been a significant s h i f t of t h e costs of servicing foreign debts from t h e
borrowers who incurred t h e debt8 t o t h e economy a t large.                   The preferable
policy is t o allow these c o s t s t o be borne f u l l y and d i r e c t l y by t h e borrowers
and indirectly,              t o t h e extent t h a t t h e borrowers a r e able t o pass them on, by
t h e i r customers.             To t h e extent t h a t t h e Government determines exchange rates,
its fundamental policy should be t o avoid so far as possible the occurrence of
over o r under valuations of t h e rates and t h e corresponding windfalls o r
shocks which those who earn o r who borrow o r use foreign exchange experience
when t h e exchange r a t e s a r e distorted and subeequent s t e p s a r e taken t o
correct t h e distortions.                 Also, Government policy should not prevent regulated
u t i l i t i e s from passing on increases i n debt service cost8 resulting from
devaluations (para. 5.71).




8.9           Because of t h e a v a i l a b i l i t y of very large and highly competitive
currency markets involving future exchanges of t h e US$ and other major country
currencies, hedging s t r a t e g i e s t o l i m i t t h e currency r i s k s on t h e project
loans i n relation t o t h e US$ were feasible.                     It appears that these could have
been implemented by t h e Central Bank a t r e l a t i v e l y modest transaction and
other costs, assuming t h a t Colombia would have been deemed t o be a c r e d i t
worthy party and therefore t h a t high c r e d i t r i s k premiums would not have been
charged.          In retrospect, it i e c l e a r t h a t such hedging would have been much
preferable than simply accepting t h e uncertain exchange r i s k s implicit i n
foreign loan8 denominated i n whole o r i n part i n currencies other than t h e
US$.       Ae s t a t e d i n para 8.5,       however, t h e need f o r such hedging was not
apparent i n 1983 and e a r l y 1984 when t h e project appraisal was completed and
t h e project loans w e r e negotiated.

8.10        The remaining issue is whether subsequent t o approval of t h e project
loans i n e a r l y 1984, and i f so when, t h e r i s k of major and long-sustained
devaluation of t h e US$ became s o evident t h a t t h e Bank should have recommended
t h a t Colombia adopt, o r coneider adopting, a policy t o o f f e r market priced
hedging mechanisms against t h e devaluation of t h e US$ through t h e central
Bank.       That issue, of course, pertains not simply t o t h e project loans but
a l s o t o a l l non-US$ denominated foreign loans t o Colombian borrowers, and not
simply t o Colombia but t o a l l Bank borrowers.            A r e l a t e d question is whether
and when t h e need f o r such hedging mechanisms should have become evident t o
t h e Government and t h e central bank independent of any advice from t h e Bank.

8.11        There a r e no simple c l e a r answers t o t h e questions posed i n t h e
preceding para.          The turning point i n a long sustained period i n which t h e US$
strengthened against other currencies occurred about mid-1985.                         It is very
unlikely t h a t anyone would have been aware of t h i s turning point precisely
when it happened.             In September 1985, however, a formal announcement w a s made
a t a meeting of t h e US and s i x other industrialized countries t h a t they
intended t o devalue t h e US$ i n relation t o other currencies including t h e Y
and t h e DM i n order t o s t e m t h e widening US trade d e f i c i t .        The currency
markets are s o huge t h a t what happened subsequent t o t h i s announcement is
mainly a t t r i b u t a b l e t o market forcee and only p a r t i a l l y t o t h e intervention of
government agencies implementing government policies.                      Thus, t h e September
1985 announcement should be considered an event which put t h e Bank and its
borrowers on notice t h a t a devaluation of t h e US$ was likely.

8.12        From t h e beginning t o t h e end of 1985, t h e exchange r a t e of t h e Y t o
t h e US$ moved from 251 t o 201, o r an increase of 25% i n its US$ value, but t h e
average exchange rate f o r 1985 compared t o 1984 was v i r t u a l l y unchanged a t
about 238.        Similarly, t h e DM r a t e t o t h e US$ moved from 3.15 t o 2.46 from t h e
beginning t o t h e end of 1985, repreeenting an increase of 28% i n its US$
value, but t h e average rate f o r 1985 compared t o 1984 was v i r t u a l l y unchanged
a t about 2.9.         There w e r e continued annual increases i n t h e US$ value of these
currencies ranging from 23% t o 28% i n 1986 and 1987, which by then w e r e a l s o
reflected i n declining average exchange r a t e s and increasing average US$
values f o r these currencies.           Since 1987, t h e r e hae been an uneven, modeet
strengthening of t h e US$, with movements up and down i n t h e exchange ratee
within a r e l a t i v e l y narrow band.     It ia noteworthy that the range i n variation
of t h e exchange r a t e s during t h i s period is applicable back t o January 1987.
Using monthly averages f o r t h e period from January 1987 through September,
1991, t h e r a t e per US$ f o r t h e Y has varied from about 123 (November 1988) t o
158.5 (April 1990), o r a r a t i o i n terms of US$ values of 1.29 t o 1; and t h e
rate for the DM has varied from about 1.48 (February 1991) t o 1.99 (June
1989), or a r a t i o of 1.35 to 1.

8.13        I n retrospect, it would seem plausible t o have expected t h a t (i)t h e
Bank and its borrowers would have begun an assessment of t h e consequences of
t h e devaluation of t h e US$ announced i n September 1985 shortly thereafter;
(ii)the         problem8 caused by t h e declining values of t h e US$ i n r e l a t i o n t o
other major foreign currencies would have been recognized by 1986 o r 1987 a t
t h e latest; and (iii)consideration would have been given during t h i s period
to adoption of hedging mechanieme t o limit the effects of t h e devaluation.                      In
f a c t , t h e problems w e r e recognized by Colombian (and other) borrowers who w e r e
very c r i t i c a l of t h e resultant high cost of Bank loans and other non-US$
denominated foreign loans.             There w e r e no suggestions, however, e i t h e r from

Bank o r Colombian sources t h a t offsetting hedging mechanisms might be
advisable u n t i l t h e announcement of t h e adoption by t h e Bank of new currency
management policies i n January 1989.                       The Colombian criticism, mentioned i n
para 8.6, concerning t h e Bank's f a i l u r e t o secure from t h e central bank
market-priced hedging mechanism8 against t h e devaluation of t h e dollar, was
made i n 1990, but it apparently w a s not related t o o r stimulated by t h e new
currency management policiee i n s t i t u t e d by t h e Bank i n 1989.




8.14          The new policies, which were adopted a f t e r more than a year of study,
w e r e deeigned t o a l l e v i a t e d i f f i c u l t i e s which Bank borrowers (and not simply
Colombia) had experienced. They were intended t o make t h e currency composition
of Bank loane more transparent and manageable both f o r loans made since July
1, 1980, which were eubject t o the currency pool, and the fixed currency loane
made p r i o r thereto. The composition of t h e currency pool was t o be targeted s o
t h a t f o r every dollar i n it t h e r e would be              125 yen and 2 Deutsche marks ( o r
t h e equivalent of 2 Deuteche marks i n a compoeite of Deutsche marke, Swise
francs, and Netherlands guilders, three currencies whose exchange rates had a
tendency t o move closely together).                      These t a r g e t s were expected t o create
approximate balance among t h e t h r e e currency groups which would account f o r
90-95% of t h e currency pool.              Previously, t h e currency composition of t h e pool
had varied greatly since its inception.                        The fixed t a r g e t s would enable
borrowers t o manage pooled loans a s families of subloans, one i n each targeted
currency.           Budget planning would be more effective, and hedging would be
f a c i l i t a t e d f o r borrowers with ready market accees who wished t o traneform t h e
nature of t h e i r foreign exchange exposure should t h a t be desirable i n t h e
context of overall l i a b i l i t y management.                The fixed t a r g e t r a t i o e f o r t h e
currency pool were t o be achieved by July 1, 1991, but progress achieved by
July 31, 1989, was s o considerable t h a t changes i n t h e t a r g e t basket matched
changee i n t h e currency pool very closely.                     Under t h e new policy f o r fixed
currency loans, currency r e c a l l s f o r amortization payments on each such loan
would be made on a pro r a t a basis.                   This would eliminate t h e uncertainty a s t o
what currencies would be called which had previously caueed serioue budget and
foreign exchange planning probleme f o r borrowers.                          A s i n t h e caee of t h e
pooled loans, borrowere would be able to t r e a t t h e fixed currency loane a s
families of eubloans i n t h e conetituent currenciee, and borrowers with ready
market access could transform currency r i s k using hedging techniques.                                  (Papers
e n t i t l e d "Queetions and Anewers on t h e World Bank's New Currency Management
Policies" and "Transparency Preeentation on t h e World Bank's New Currency
Management Policiesn iesued by t h e o f f i c e of t h e controller, September 1989.)

8.15          A paper issued by t h e Bank shortly a f t e r t h e adoption of t h e new
p o l i c i e s contains a detailed discuseion of t h e instruments and technique8
available t o hedge currency r i s k , including forwards, futures, options and
swape ("Anticipating and Hedging Debt Service Payments on World Bank Loanew,
Office of t h e Controller, September 1989).                      Among other points made, t h i s
paper pointed out t h a t aggregating hedging on eeveral loane would be
advantageous becauee better pricing is available f o r l a r g e amounts and because
t h i s would be less burdensome administratively.                         The paper suggests t h a t one
way t o accomplish t h i s is f o r t h e central bank t o hedge on behalf of many
borrowers.           I n addition t o t h e guidance and advice provided by t h i s paper, it
and t h e "Question and Answerw paper referred t o i n t h e preceding para s t a t e d
t h a t , while t h e Bank i t s e l f w i l l not be able to provide hedging services t o

borrowers, technical aesietance on a limited baeis i e available from t h e Bank
and t h a t advice is also available from private sector firms with expertise i n
t h i s area.

8.16      There was no direct follow up, either by the Bank o r Colombian
authorities, t o the suggestions i n t h e papers noted above t h a t it may be
advantageous t o manage proactively the foreign exchange r i s k inherent i n World
Bank loans using market hedging techniquee.                The lack of interest i n
conaidering hedging i n the period since 1989 was not limited t o Colombia; the
Bank received no requeete f o r technical aesietance on t h i e eubject.             This lack
of interest may have reflected a view that the devaluation of the US$ had been
exceseive and that the US$ warn likely t o etrengthen i n t h e future, so that it
was unnecessary t o incur the coete and the administrative burden of hedging.
Such a view would be supported by t h e general opinion t h a t t h e US$ had become
undervalued i n relation t o other major foreign currencies on a purchasing
power parity basis.              In addition, t h e lack of intereet may have been due t o an
inadequate dissemination or underetanding of the optione available f o r r and
t h e potential benefits and coete of, hedging currency risks.               More recently,
s t a f f of t h e office of the Treasurer have been involved i n providing technical
aesietance on hedging t o Bank member countries.               The scope of t h i s activity
and its current status have not been reviewed f o r t h i s report.

8.17      To sum upr it is not appropriate t o c r i t i c i z e t h e Bank for f a i l i n g t o
include, as part of the project design, hedging arrangements which would have
protected project borrowere againet, o r softened t h e impact on them of, the
devaluation of the US$ i n relation t o other foreign currencies.                It may be
f a i r t o c r i t i c i z e the Bank f o r taking too long t o formulate its institutional
response t o t h e problems resulting from the devaluation of t h e US$ subeequent
t o mid-1985.          Even i f t h e Bank had formulated that response sooner, say two
yeare e a r l i e r , by January 1987, one cannot be certain t h a t a decision would
have been taken t o begin hedging shortly thereafter or whether the decision
would have been t o do nothing a s was the case a f t e r t h e January 1989
announcement of the Bank's new currency management policies.                 It is
inappropriate t o c r i t i c i z e the Bank's regional staff responsible for
supervising t h i s project for f a i l i n g t o react to the devaluation of the US$
which began i n 1985 and failing t o suggest that hedging against t h e
devaluation should be considered.                Very few Bank staff had any expertise i n
t h i s specialized and complex eubject, and it would have been purely
coincidental i f such a staff member w e r e part of t h e project team or of t h e
regional management concerned with t h i s project.

8.18       Coneideration should be given t o undertaking retrospective studies of
what might have been achieved and a t what cost had hedging against t h e
devaluation of the US$ i n relation t o other foreign currencies been
implemented for the project loans treated i n the aggregate.                Although these
would serve only as one i l l u s t r a t i o n of t h e costa and benefits of such
hedging, such an i l l u s t r a t i o n should be a useful complement t o the theoretical
baeie f o r determining whether, when and on what baeis it may be advisable t o
undertake hedging and how t o evaluate the rioke involved.               The studies could
test a variety of assumptions: different etarting dates, e.g. from the
beginning of project implementation ehortly a f t e r loan effectiveness, mid-
1985, January 1, 1987, and mid-1989; different techniques, forwards, futures,
options, swaps and, perhape, some combinatione thereof;                difference8 i n t h e
extent of coverage, e.g. i n addition t o f u l l hedging, various approaches t o

p a r t i a l hedging such a s are suggested i n t h e Bank's "Anticipating and Hedging
Debt Service Payments" paper; and t h e combined approach using options
s t r a t e g i e s t o hedge t h e Y and DM together which t h a t paper s t a t e s i e leee
costly.          Instead of attempting t o mirror t h e f i n e tuning t h a t might have been
undertaken t o take account of t h e changing currency compoeition of t h e
currency pool, a simplifying assumption could be used, l i k e t h e fixed
"reflecting pooln t h a t closely tracked t h e f u l l pool and which is described i n
t h e "The World Bank'e Currency Pool" (October 1988).                          The eimplifying
aeeumption could include a switch i n t h e l a t t e r p a r t of 1989 to t h e t a r g e t s
adopted under t h e Bank's new currency management policies as t h e baeie f o r
hedging t h e "A" loan.                  Both t h e Bank and Colombia would benefit from t h e
retrospective studies.                    A t least as an i n i t i a l check, t h e information obtained
would be useful to t h e Bank t o determine whether changes w e r e needed i n i t e
policies and procedures f o r interacting with its borrowers on t h e subject of
hedging t h e currency r i s k s on foreign loans, and t o Colombia i n determining
t h e country's policies i n t h i s respect.

beesone Learned.

8.19         The principal leseone learned, with implications f o r other projects of
t h e same nature, as a r e s u l t of t h e analyeis of t h e preparation and
implementation of t h i s project and of subsequent events relevant thereto, a r e
t h e following:

             (a) E                                     t                              .

                      (i)A special procedure could be established by the Bank for
                     dealing with emergency financial packages under specific
                     conditione, s o t h a t ad hoc arrangements would not have t o be
                     devised as was t h e case f o r t h i s project.

                      (ii)When new lending models are being implemented, particularly
                     a s exemplified by t h i s project when they involve an e a r l y
                     application of a new             cofinancing scheme i n t h e euccess.of which
                     both t h e Bank and its borrowers are highly interested and when
                     they are part of an emergency package f o r a c l i e n t sector:

                             more rather than less financial analysis should be applied;

                             and t h e financial and i n s t i t u t i o n a l aspects should be more
                             closely supervised, particularly i f t h e technical component
                             is weak.        Such supervision ehould be entrusted t o Bank s t a f f
                             and not delegated t o consultants.



                     When a principal objective of a project is t o aeeiet a newly
                     created financial intermediary t o serve ae a development bank f o r
                     a c a p i t a l intensive infrastructure sector and strengthen its
                     financial management, major responsibility f o r t h e Bank's
                     a c t i v i t i e s during t h e design, appraisal and supervision stages
                     ehould be assigned t o a e t a f f member who is an expert on financial
                     intermediaries and c a p i t a l markets.           Key financial indicators t o
                     be monitored should be agreed during appraisal.                    When t h e r e are

     shortfalls in performance, appropriate follow up action should be
    taken to see that corrective measures are adopted.

(C) project6 Involvina more than One Sector.

    When projects involve more than one sector and the staff expertise
     required for the different sectors work in separate divisions,
     Bank management must ensure that there is adequate cooperation and
     coordination between or among the divisions so that staff experts
    who should be involved in appraisal and supervision of such
     projects are made available when needed.  The Bank should be more
     agile in forming multi-disciplinary teams across division lines
     when needed and not attempt to compensate for organizational
     rigidities by using conaultanta.

(d) pealistic Schedulinq.

     When establishing dates to be specified in loan covenants for
     carrying out studies and accomplishing institutional improvements,
     be realistic in estimating the time needed and avoid setting
     overambitious targets.

(e) pisbursement and Revortins Recruirements.

     When disbursements are to be made on the basis of advances into a
     special account, and the subsequent actual use of the loan funds
     for project purposes is to be accounted for by disbursement from
     the special account, it is essential that the appraisal report
     estimate the rate of expected disbursements on both bases.
     Disbursement arrangements from the special account and reporting
     requirements should be designed so that they provide a basis for
     confirming that the financing was used for the intended purposes
     such as foreign coats, and that other limits or requirements were
     observed such as the amount of and t h e limits for retroactive
     financing.  Staff should make sure that the Borrower arranges for
     the required audit of statements of expenditures (paras 4.21-4.25,
     5.34 and 5.36).




     There are no advantages to be derived from showing leniency in
     the event of non-compliance with loan covenants.   In the case of
     this loan this is particularly critical, especially with regard to
     FEN'S failure to carry out various commitments designed to enhance
     its financial planning and advisory capacity (paras 5.10-5.12).
     Less leniency would have stimulated more the institutional
     strengthening of FEN as a development banking institution.



     The Bank should reconsider its role with respect to the
     devastating effect that foreign exchange movements can have on the
     financial position of borrowers, particularly on producers of non-
     tradeables such as the utilities, in the absence of hedging

                       mechanieme againet t h i e riek.            The queetion which ehould be
                       addreesed i e whether the Bank i e doing a l l t h a t it ehould t o
                       aeeiet borrowere t o addreee t h i e ieeue appropriately, including
                       provieion of adequate technical aseistance and advice t o do so.
                        In the caee of Colombia, the r o l e of the central bank ehould be
                       reviewed i n t h i e context, eince it ehould be able t o provide
                       advice about t h e coete and potential benefit8 of hedging and t o
                       coordinate and consolidate hedging a c t i v i t i e e on an economical
                       and e f f i c i e n t baeie for borrowere who desire t o hedge.       Until
                       recently, t h e Central Bank monopolized a l l foreign exchange
                       traneactione a s a reeult of the exchange control regime (Decree
                       444 of 1967), but t h i s is no longer t h e caee (eee para 5.61).

              (h) Extended Term Traneformation.

                       The f e a s i b i l i t y of extending FEN'e term transformation role ehould
                       be etudied i n collaboration with Colombian authorities eo t h a t t h e
                       burden of debt service requirement8 on Colombian power companiee
                       is realietically, reaeonably and traneparently related t o their
                       earning power.             Thie eubject i e diecueeed further i n Annex 11.


                                               9.      BORROWER PERFORMANCE



Ma-ior Strenaths and Weakneeeee

9.1           The major etrength ehown by FEN ae a reeult of t h i e loan was its proved
a b i l i t y t o mobilize financial eavinge i n the domestic market through
innovative and euitable ehort- and medium-range instruments.                          It also
developed the a b i l i t y t o collect financial information from i t e client
u t i l i t i e s and t o aggregate it i n t o financial forecaeting modele for the power
eector.          According t o FEN management, these modele a r e working and enable the
institution t o obtain t h e information it neede t o be a prudent lender i n a
financially weak eector.                       I n t h e opinion, however, of the etaff of t h e Bank
and t h e IDB, a s w e l l a s other independent obeervere, the modele and the
information a r e very deficient and muet be improved. There are even questions
about the justification of having t h i e information proceesed by FEN and not by
ISA o r a technical eecretariat of the newly created Commiseion Nacional de
Energia.          Undoubtedly, FEN neede t h i e information i f it is ever going t o
become a w e l l functioning development bank f o r t h e power sector.                    Since it has
developed the channel8 f o r t h e collection and proceeeing of financial data
from t h e u t i l i t i e e , a practical and perhape the beet solution would be t o
leave t h i e responsibility with FEN but require it t o improve the proceee and
t h e financial forecaeting modele.                       The major weakneeeee of FEN a r e or have
been ae summarized below:

              (i)It did not adequately improve ite technical and managerial skille
              t o eerve a s a power sector development bank i n euch reepecte ae t h e
              a b i l i t y t o evaluate loan propoeale and monitor the implementation of
              projects f o r which it provides financing, and t o eerve a s a power
              eector financing strategy advieor t o t h e Government and t h e u t i l i t i e s .

(ii)It has not had enough political or financial clout to impose a
conditionality among its borrowers t h a t would i n s t i l l financial
d i s c i p l i n e i n t h e system. Laws 25 and 51 of 1990 not only expanded
FEN'B lending functions t o include refinancing debt service obligations
i n order t o rationalize t h e functioning of t h e energy sector, but a l s o
authorized FEN t o determine t h e terms and conditions t h a t borrowers
must meet t o be e l i g i b l e f o r FEN's loans (para 5.56).      This gives FEN
both t h e responsibility and t h e necessary financial clout t o ensure
t h a t its borrowers make significant and timely progress t o remedy
deficiencies as a condition of continued financial support from FEN.
Assuming t h a t t h e Government does not i n t e r f e r e with FEN's conduct f o r
p o l i t i c a l reasons, FEN's future success depend6 on how good its
judgment is i n applying its authority t o impose conditionality.

(iii)It has been limited in its capability to supply the sector's
needs of local funds, not by its savings mobilization potential, but by
t h e financial weakness of t h e potential borrowers t h a t a r e not credit-
worthy.          This is no longer s o since t h e adoption of Law 51 i n December
1990, which authorized FEN t o provide Col$ c r e d i t s without a bank
guaranty o r rediscounting.           Under t h i s law, FEN must be prepared t o
take t h e f u l l r i s k of bad loans and, a s s t a t e d above, i f it is t o be
successful, it must see t o it t h a t its borrowers correct t h e i r
weaknesses a s a condition of its lending.

( i v ) The Government has not viewed FEN a s a full-fledged development
bank f o r t h e power ( o r energy) sector but rather a s an instrument f o r
quasi-fiscal spending by means of capitalization of t h e i n s t i t u t i o n t o
compensate f o r losses derived from lending t o bad c r e d i t subjects.
This could contain t h e seed f o r FEN's future disarray, since it
obfuscates t h e financial picture of t h e i n s t i t u t i o n and diminishes t h e
accountability of its management.             The actions taken i n 1990 t o
increase FEN's responsibilities are indicative of a change i n t h e
a t t i t u d e of t h e Government.    The Government now expects FEN t o a c t a s
an e f f e c t i v e development bank i n support of government p o l i c i e s t o
improve t h e functioning of t h e power sector.            FEN is t o a s s i s t i n t h e
formulation of performance o r management contracts which t h e power
companies would enter i n t o with t h e Government and which would d e t a i l
measures t o be taken by them t o improve t h e i r efficiency.            Fulfillment
of theae contracts w i l l be supervised by t h e government, and continued
access t o FEN c r e d i t s w i l l be conditioned on compliance with these
contracts.            Companies owned by t h e national government which f a i l t o
comply with t h e contracts a r e t o be subject t o restructuring o r
liquidation.             (FEN's 1990 Annual Report, English version, pagee 8           -  9.)


(v) NO major restructuring exercises of ICEL, CORELCA and t h e i r
subsidiaries have been carried out, although they a r e t h e l e a e t credit-
worthy borrowers of FEN.             Under FEN's supervision, studies have been
made t o determine what should be done t o improve t h e operations,
financial performance and management of theae companies.                  Following
amendment of t h e Colombian constitution i n June 1991, l e g i s l a t i o n is
being prepared pureuant t o which theee companies would be reorganized.
Although t h e r e now is a reasonable prospect t h a t t h i s w i l l be
accomplished i n t h e near future, t h e overall time taken t o effectuate

       improvements in the performance of these companies has been unduly
       long.

Lessons Learneq

9.2    The major lesson learned is that the financial problems of the power
sector cannot be solved merely by the creation and maintenance of a
specialized financial intermediary such as FEN.  Until December 1990, FEN'S
managers, acting responsibly as prudent bankers, relied on bank guaranties or
rediscounts as security for Col$ lending to the power companies, and this
limited the availability of such assistance to the companies that were credit
worthy.  Also, all of FEN'S foreign lending to the power sector has required a
government guaranty, and this is still the case.  This guaranty may or may not
be honored.  If it is honored, it contributes to the financial disarray of the
sector and to the widespread undiscipline.  If it is not honored, it taxes the
financial structure of FEN and will lead to its eventual surrendering of
independence -e.g. to giving up its role as a bank. The potential of FEN as an
agency capable of mobilizing funds to the power sector in the domestic market
and internationally will be largely wasted unless the utilities are
restructured so that they may become credit-worthy borrowers on their own
right, and this cannot be accomplished without a thorough reorganization of
the sector.


                           10. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP


10.1   Although the relationship between the Bank and FEN was harmonious at
all times during implementation of the project, the involvement of the
Bank's staff with the borrower was lacking in the sense that no interest
permeated regarding the institutional performance of FEN or the role to be
played by this institution in the development of the power sector.  The
attitude of the Bank towards FEN has been of benign neglect, which has not
been conductive to institutional development or strengthening.  This is
attributable to the Bank's failure to assign a staff member who was an expert
on financial intermediaries and capital markets to participate in the design
and supervision of this project (para 5.70)

10.2   FEN'S relationship with the government has not been successful in the
sense that the institution has not been able to define a strong role for
itself in the organization of the power sector.

10.3   FEN could improve substantially its information gathering process and
its ability to deal with the financial problems of the utilities if it could
induce them to accept and apply uniform and standardized accounting
procedures and to adopt a standardized management information system. This
is particularly critical in the case of ICEL.


                           11.  CONSULTING SERVICES


11.1   Consultants played a relatively small but potentially significant role
for several key aspects of the project.  FEN hired the local consulting firms

of Mejia, Millan y Perry and FEDESARROLLO t o develop a financial forecaeting
and analyeie model -ENE and t o carry out a etudy on sector finances and
formulate a propoeed financing etrategy (para 5.10).                    In eubmitting t h e i r
d r a f t report, the coneultanta recommended additional work and improvement8 t o
complete development of t h e model.               The need for t h i e further work wae
endoraed by t h e Bank i n i t e commente on t h e d r a f t report which concluded t h a t
t h e model, when perfected, would provide a auitable baeie f o r t h e periodic
review of t h e financial prospecte and etrategiee of t h e power sector (letter
dated February 5, 1986).          It i e uncertain what action FEN took t o carry out
these reconunendatione (para 5.11).                Ae pointed out i n para 9.1, there a r e
conflicting views on how effective t h e model hae been.

11.2         An individual consultant, Renato Salazar, was retained t o aeeist i n
improving FEN's project analysis and monitoring capacity.                    H i s work wae
competently performed and hie report wae w e l l received by t h e Bank which
endorsed hie recommendatione.             Although FEN implemented t h e recommendations,
it has to date not developed independent appraisal capacity which wae one of
t h e objectives of t h e project (para 5.9).             This, plus t h e delay i n retaining
t h i s consultant and the limited uee made of t h e funds provided under t h e loan
f o r t h i e aesistance, are another indication of a lack of genuine commitment by
FEN t o t h e objective of etrengthening its capabilities a s a development bank
for t h e power sector (see para 4.9).

11.3          A study of t h e capital markets i n Colombia with reconunendatione for FEN
about alternative inetrumente t o mobilize eavings i n t h e domestic market on a
medium and long term baeie wae conducted by t h e local coneulting firm
Servicios de Informacion Ltda.              An individual consultant retained by t h e Bank,
Celestino Carbajal, also submitted a report which analyzed options t o iseue
longer term securitiee which FEN might use t o raiee reeources from t h e
domeetic market (para 5.15).            Theee studiee and t h e i r conclusions w e r e not
u t i l i z e d since FEN wae unable t o develop resource mobilization t o i t e f u l l
potential (paras 5.16-5.20).            The legal and regulatory changee made i n 1990
have greatly expanded FEN's responsibility and authority t o r a i s e funds from
t h e domeetic market, and t h e amount eo raieed increaeed dramatically i n 1991
(paras 5.56-5.61).          Ae a reeult, these studies should be of significant
u t i l i t y t o FEN for its future domestic borrowing a c t i v i t i e s .




12.1          The data relevant for t h e preparation of t h e PCR for t h e moat part were
readily available.          There a r e a few eerious gape i n t h e documentation
contained i n t h e filee.       Copiee of some incoming letters and information
eubmitted by FEN o r t h e Government w e r e missing, apparently because etaff had
not eent them t o t h e o f f i c i a l f i l e e .  Minutes of t h e negotiations w e r e not
available.         This report had t o r e l y on information contained i n FEN'e Final
Report f o r some of i t e e t a t i e t i c a l information and on t h e f i l e s of t h e power
eector projects for data on t h e statue of compliance with covenante i n t h e
Power Financing Agreement.

12.2          There was no agreement during negotiations on t h e key financial
indicators t o be monitored during project implementation.                   Through an
overeight, t h e intention t o reach agreement on these indicatore during t h e

third eupervieion mieeion wae not implemented.      In future project6 and
coneietent w i t h eetabliehed Bank practice, agreement on a l l key indicators for
monitoring project performance ehould be reached during appraieal.

12.3   It proved t o be impractical t o obtain reporting which would compare
actual t o eetimated project coete on the baeie of the definition of project
coate ueed f o r t h e appraisal (parae 5.37-5.39).  In the future, arrangement6
for the collection of euch data ehould be made prior t o preeentation of     a
project for Board approval.     In addition, the design of disbursement and
reporting requirement6 ehould be improved eo that actual uees of loan funde,
including eubloan funds, could be compared w i t h estimated uees more
substantively than proved t o be poeeible in thie instance (para 5.36).

12.4   In dealing w i t h a borrower much ae FEN which reliee on ehort term
borrowinge for a eubetantial part of its capital requirements, the definition
of debt t o be ueed i n a debt/equity limitation covenant ehould exclude normal
ahort term liabilitiee (para 5.52).

                                               -   -
                                                57

              PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE




1.01         In compliance with Section 3.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower prepared and eent t o the Bank a completion report of t h e project.
Based i n part on t h i e f i r s t report, the Bank prepared a preliminary draft PCR
and eent it for cotnmente to the Borrower.            By letter of January 3, 1992, the
Borrower eent i t e comments which were received at the Bank on January 8, 1992.
Due coneideration has been given t o these comments i n the preparation of the
final t e x t of Part I of t h i e report.



1.02         The completion report prepared by t h e Borrower t i t l e d " EVALUACION
FINAL DE LA EJECUCION DEL CONTRATO DE EMPRESTITO FEN-BIRF (2401)            -
                                                                             BANCA
COMERCIAL," gives an overview of the evolution of the eector economic
indicators and a descriptive account of t h e preparation and implementation
etages of t h e project.          For future reference, the Borrower's report has been
included i n t h e project f i l e .



1.03          To r e f l e c t t h e Borrower'e views on the main achievements and
lessons learnt, t h i e section contains English tranelatione of:

             a) the Table of Contents; Introduction, Achievement of Overall
             Objectives of t h e Loan; and Conclueione of the Borrower's report;
             and

             b) t h e f u l l t e x t of the Borrower'e letter of January 3, 1992;
             Annex 3 contains a copy of t h e original text of the l e t t e r .

2.0  w   o    n of selected Sectione of the Borrower'e Reoort

2.01 -erg     o Reaort -   ble of Co-

                              TABLE OF CONTENT8

     INTRODUCTION

I.   RECENT FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE POWER SECTOR

     1.  Overall Framework
     2.  World Bank Financing for the Sector

11.  FINANCIERA ELECTRICA NACIONAL S.A.

     1.  The Nature, Purpose and Role of Financiera E16ctrica Nacional S.A.
          1.1  Nature
          1.2  Purpoee
          1.3  Role

     2.   Internal Organization of Financiera Elgctrica Nacional S.A.

     3.  Enterprieee Holding Stock in FEN

     4.  FEN'e Financial Resources

          4.1  CEV and TER
          4.2  "Constant Valuew Social Security Bonde

     5.  Credit Operatione by Financiera Electrica Nacional S.A.

          5.1  Credit Operatione Using Internal Reeources
          5.2  Credit Operatione Ueing Reeourcee from External Loane

     6.  Restructuring and Capitalization of FEN

          6.1  Reetructuring
          6.2  Government Capitalization of FEN

111. EVALUATION OF PROJECT 2401-CO, COFINANCED BY COMMERCI?LL BANKS

     1.   Background to the FEN/World Bank Agreement

     2.  Overall Implementation of the FEN/World Bank/Comercial Banke Loan
         Agreement

          2.1  World Bank (2401-CO)
          2.2  Midland Bank
          2.3  Induetrial Bank of Japan (IBJ)

     3.  Dietribution of Financing among Enterprieee

     4.  Application of Financing, by Local or Imported Investment Component

5.  Financial Condition6 Applied to Subloans

6.  Achievement of Overall Objectives

7.   Impact of the FEN/World Bank/Commercial Banks Loan on FEN'S
    Financial Position

8.  Revaluation of the Debt Reeulting from the Compoeition of the
    Basket of Currencies

9.  Achievement of Objectives in the Financing of Individual Projecte

    9.1   Interconexi6n Electrica S.A. (ISA)
          San Carloe I
          San Carlos I1
          Desviacionee Chivor
          Jaguae
          Termozipa V
          Calderas

     9.2  Empreaa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB)
          Mesitae
          Guavio
          Urban Distribution

     9.3  Empreaas Piiblicaa de Medellin (EPM)
          Guadalupe IV
          Playae

     9.4 Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Cauca (CVC)
          Salvajina Hydropower Generation

     9.5  Corporaci6n Electrica de la Coeta Atl6ntica (CORELCA)
          Tennoguajira I
          Termoguajira I1
          Cuestecita Substation
          Electrification:   C6rdoba, Sucre and Sur de Bolivar
          Valledupar Substation
          Control Center
          Power Project for Noninterconnected Areas (PEZNI)
          Expansion of San Andrea Generation
          Alto Sinii Hydropower Project

CONCLUSIONS

                                            -   60-

                                           TABLES


     Ordinary Loans t o t h e Power Sector

     Loane and Diebureemente ueing External Financing, by Enterpriee and
     Project:    General Table f o r Loan 2401-CO (Annex No.   1)

     Credit Dietribution, by Enterpriee

     Application of Credit, by Local and Imparted Invoetment Component

   and 6. Statue of FEN/World Bank Loan Adjueted f o r t h e Effecte of t h e
     Eaeket of Currencies

     Breakdown of FEN Aeeete and L i a b i l i t i e e

     Coneolidated Balance Sheet

     Exchange Ratee

                                           CHARTS


Inetitutional Structure of t h e Power Sector

FEN:  Organization Charts f o r 1984, 1987 and 1989

Geographical Location of Power Projecte Supported by t h e FEN/World
Bank/Commercial Bank Loan

External Financing:   Annual Diebureemente by Enterprime (Chart No. 1)

External Financing:    Total Diebureemente by Enterprime (Chart No.      2)

External Borrowing:    Operating Proceee

Breakdown of FEN Aseets and L i a b i l i t i e s

Statue of t h e FEN/World Bank Loan Adjuoted f o r t h e Effects of t h e Basket of
Currenciee (Chart No. 3)

Diebureemente of External Resources, by Source and Application (Chart No.         4 )

Application and U s e of FEN/World Bank/Coanaercial Bank Loan Proceede (Chart
No. 5)

Balance of FEN/World Bank Subloan, Adjueted f o r t h e Effecte of t h e Basket of
Currencies (Chart No. 6)

                            -
          porrower's ReDOrt   Introduction


                                 JNTRODUCTION



          In accordance with Agreement 2401-CO, signed on June 27, 1984 to
govern the FEN/World Bank/Comercial Bank cofinanced project, the purpose of
thia report is to furniah the World Bank with an evaluation of loan execution.

          To this end, the report first preaenta an overall analysia of
recent financial developments in the Colombian power sector.

          Second, it preaente the organizational structure of Financiera
Electrica Nacional S.A. (FEN), with a breakdown of ita ahareholdere, financial
reaourceo, overall lending programs, and its future prospects after the
reetructuring and capitalization process through which it will become
Financiera Energetics Nacional S.A. (FEN), with a broader range of activities
and management.

          Finally, the implementation of the cofinanced project ia evaluated,
with an examination of the background to the Agreement, ite overall
implementation, the dietribution of the financing by enterpriee, financial
conditions applied to the mubloanm, the achievement of overall objectives, the
impact on FEN'S financial position, the revaluation of the loan amount because
of the effects of the basket of currencies, and the achievement of the
objective8 of the epecific subprojects financed.


          porrower'a RePort - Achievement of Overall Ob*


          Whievement of Overall Loan Oblectivea

          Basically, the loan had the following two major objectives:  first,
to provide financial aupport for energy enterprise8 to enable them to complete
the conatruction of power generation, distribution and tranemiseion projects,
in a cofinanced operation eupported by commercial banks.

          Second, it was to aupport the development of FEN (Financiera
Electrica Nacional S.A.), enabling it to become an effective meane of
channeling finance to the eector and to increaae ita capacity for mobilizing
domoatic aavinga and providing acceae to future external borrowing.

          An examination of the implementation process ehowe that these
objective8 were entirely achieved, mince the financing contributed toward the
completion of a number of generation, tranemisaion, eubtranemiasion and
diatribution projects, aa will be ahown later.

          Aa regarda FEN, it increased its lending activities and became the
moat important financing agency in the sector, as ie reflected in ita
financial position.  A brief analysis of this follows.

                                 CONCLUSIONS

1.        FEN made eatisfactory progress a8 a financial intermediary.

2.        The reeourcee were fully diebureed and made it poeeible to
implement a large number of projects that are now generating revenue for the
enterprises concerned.

3.        Nevertheleee, the power eector as a whole was prevented from
achieving overall poeitive results by the atructural problems of inadequate
net internal generation and the high level of external indebtedneee.

4.        The change in the value of the loan as denominated according to the
World Bank/IDB baeket of currenciee had a coneiderable impact, coupled with
the high rate of domeetic devaluation over recent yeare.

5.        Internally, FEN was coneolidated a8 a financial agency.  In the
private inveetment market it firmly eetabliehed varioue type8 of eecurity with
different maturitiee, gaining public acceptance and confidence.

6.        In light of it8 eucceee and the need to increaee its ephere of
activities, it ie ehortly to become Financiera Energetics Nacional S.A.

FEN: FINANCIERA ENERGETICA NACIONAL S.A.
Office of the President
Santaf6 de Bogota D.C.


                                                               January 3, 1992


Mr. Graham Smith
Division Chief, Infrastructure
  and Energy Operations
Country Department 111
Latin America and the Caribbean
  Regional Office
World Bank
Washington, D.C.


Dear Mr. Smith:

          I wish to make the following comments on the Project Completion
Report regarding Loan 2401-CO to FEN:

     1.   Paras. 3.01, 4.01 and 4.05 [now 3.1, 4.1 and 4.51:  As regards the
          objectives of the loan, the Report emphasizes that, from its
          establishment, FEN was to act as a development bank.  Although at
          appraisal and during the negotiations on the draft Agreement this was
          mentioned as one of its several purposes, far more importance was
          attached to the objective of supporting Colombia in its efforts to
          increase energy supply to the necessary level for supporting
          development and increasing employment.  Consequently, the basic
          purpose discuesed at that time was to ensure that the necessary
          projects for increasing power supply could be executed, so that
          rationing could be avoided. We do not believe that the advisory
          missions to FEN in June and November 1982 made any headway in
          establishing FEN as a development bank, because the agency only began
          to operate at the end of 1982, and its main concern then was its
          capitalization (in the form of resources from the Electric Power
          Development Fund managed by Banco de la Repiiblica). According to our
          records and institutional memory (i.e. our "oral tradition"), FEN's
          beginnings were very different from the account presented in the
          Report.  At the same time, other activities undertaken initially were
          the mobilizing of domestic savings and the transfer of resources
          through rediscounting, rather than the formation of an entity to be
          responsible for the control and financial coordination of the sector.

     2.   Para. 4.08 [now 4-61 (FEN'S Role):  In view of the above, it is not
          valid to assert that developing FEN's role as a development bank was
          one of the major components of the project.  In fact, the main effort
          was devoted to achieving the objective identified in (1) above, and
          FEN was regarded more as a mechanism for channeling resources to the

    u t i l i t i e s , i n i t i a l l y i n local currency and subsequently i n foreign
    exchange.          It was only three or four years later that steps were
    taken t o direct FEN toward t h e a c t i v i t i e s referred t o in t h e Report,
    i.e. controlling and managing the sector's finances.

3.  Para. 4.09 [now 4.91:                   One of the factors leading t o t h i s situation
    was I S A ' s role i n the power sector a t t h a t time.          Certainly, t h e
    National Government, and particularly the Ministry of Mines and
    Energy (together with the Bank i t s e l f ) , showed considerable
    hesitation over whether FEN wae t o take over ISA's controlling and
    coordinating role from the outset.                    In the event, ISA continued t o be
    responsible for the technical and financial coordination of t h e
    sector from 1983 t o 1986, while FEN devoted i t s e l f t o obtaining the
    resources required by the enterprises for carrying out t h e i r
    expansion plans.

    A s a result, conditions i n FEN, the Government and t h e Bank i t s e l f
    did not favor granting the new agency a leading role i n controlling
    the sector's finances.

4.  Changes i n the management of t h e sector were very gradual.                    A s the
    Report points out, the Government took a decisive role i n t h e
    planning process for expanding the power supply system for the f i r s t
    t i m e i n May 1983, when CONPES discussed t h e matter.               It was then
    considered t h a t the increase i n power demand would be considerably
    below the sector's projections and t h a t consequently the construction
    of new generating projects could be postponed for some time. It was
    also the f i r s t t i m e that the necessary links between power
    development and macroeconomic planning had been mentioned, and t h a t
    the financial constraints arising from the high level of indebtedneee
    had become evident.

    The result is t h a t only one new project has been begun since t h a t
    year, i.e. the Riogrande I1 hydropower plant, mainly because it was
    planned a s a multipurpose project, and it was its importance i n
    meeting t h e Medellln area's drinking water needs that was decisive.
    The remaining projects i n the sector's expansion plans (since a s
    early a s 1977) are still awaiting decisions on the starting dates for
    t h e construction of t h e i r main works.

    A s regards financial issues, between 1986 and 1987 the National
    Government's lack of confidence i n ISA's r o l e i n t h i s aspect of
    its activities reached a crisis point, and consequently the
    Administration a t t h a t t i m e (1986-90) made FEN responsible for the
    preparation of financial projection6 and t h e i r monitoring under the
    adjustment plan, and it was i n l i g h t of these a c t i v i t i e s t h a t
    Agreement 2889-CO was entered into by the Bank and the Republic of
    Colombia.

5.  Para. 5.07 [now 5.91:                   The Report also raise6 the issue of FEN'S r o l e
    i n previous years with regard t o loan appraisal.                 Until t h e end of
    1990, FEN provided only capital investment loans.                    I n general, the
    purpose of these loans                  --  including those made under 2401-CO    --  was
    t o supplement the sources of financing for projects already under

   construction, many of which had already been studied by the World
   Bank or IDB.  Consequently, it wae considered that there was no need
   for further appraieal, because one or other of the Banke had already
   carried out prefeasibility, feasibility and deeign studies on these
   projects and issued appraieal reports. Nevertheless, in 1987 FEN
   began to establish appraisal groups to deal with new projects, using
   the methodology developed for IDB Loan 237/IC-CO.  Internally, the
   loan allocation proceee involver the technical, economic, financial
   and inetitutional analyeie both of the projects themselves and of the
   enterprises submitting applications. The appraiaal document is
   examined by the Internal Credit Committee.  This presents
   recommendations to the Office of the President of FEN, which in turn
   submits its proposals to the Board.

6. Paras. 5.08 and 5.09 [now para 5.10 and 5.111  The projection models
   used by FEN and the power sector are baaed on those used by IDB
   (SPMOD), as revised and upgraded by FEN with IDB approval.  These
   models replaced the FAST used by ISA and the World Bank, with the
   latter's approval.

   Consequently, any criticisms in this regard should be discussed with
   the multilateral banks in question.

   As regards management of information, this ia of course particularly
   difficult when so many agencies are involved in providing the basic
   parameters necessary for preparing projections (e.g. the
   macroeconomic scenario, pricing, the energy balance, investment,
   etc.), particularly in light of the coneiderable institutional
   complexity characterizing the power eector.  As a result, models have
   to be used that can properly represent theme parameters and that have
   a sufficient degree of detail to be able to produce projections that
   closely reflect likely developmente in the sector. Naturally, it is
   aleo useful to have simpler models (and these have already been
   developed), but they should only be used for eeneitivity analyses,
   once orders of magnitude for the projections have been calculated
   using the more detailed models.

7. Para. 5.18 [now para 5.201  As regards mobilization of funds in local
   currency, the Report states that, in ite initial years, FEN was unable
   to carry out a massive transfer of reeourcee.  It explains (quite
   accurately) that the main cause was both the amall eize of the
   Colombian financial eector and also the lack of confidence shown by
   banks and corporations toward the power enterprises. Nevertheless, no
   reference is made to the fact that the level of funds that could be
   mobilized and the financial conditions applied to them were governed
   by the severe restrictions imposed by the monetary authorities,
   particularly as regards volume.  The result was that the original
   targets were not met.  The position changed dramatically in the final
   year, since, in November 1990, the Monetary Board (Junta Monetaria)
   removed the restrictions on the volume and interest rates for FEN'S
   borrowings.  At that time, FEN eecuritiee circulating on the local
   market totaled ColS54.5 billion.  By December 1990, the figure had
   risen to Co1$66 billion, and over the past year has progressed as
   follows:

              FEN SECURITIES IN CIRCULATION:  1991

        BY END OF MONTH              MILLIONS OF COLS

        March
        June
        September
        December


   Over a single year the funds mobilized have increased more than
   sixfold, as a result of the measures for reorganizing FEN and,
   naturally, two other points of which the Report makes mention:
   the agency's excellent image among investors, and the mobilization
   mechanisms developed since it was established. These resourcee have
   provided loans for the enterprises, mainly to be used for servicing
   government-guaranteed debts.

8. Paras. 5.39 and 5.40 [now 5.56 and 5.571:  As has also been
   mentioned, the reorganization of FEN has been a gradual process,
   based on the legal reforms of 1990 and 1991.  The first of theee wae
   Law 25 of 1990, together with the corresponding Regulatory Decree
   (1806/90), by which the agency became Financiers EnergQtica Nacional
   S.A., with a broader sphere of activities both as regards the
   enterprises that could apply for loans and the categoriee of projects
   eligible for financing.  In addition, the system of guarantees wae
   changed.

   Another reform (also approved in 1990) allowed FEN to make direct
   loans in local currency, with rediscounting one (but not the only)
   option for the placement of local credit.  The 1991 financial reform
   increased the potential scope of FEN'S activities by classifying it
   as a "financial corporation," thus allowing it greater flexibility in
   its activities vis-a-vis the power sector.  (A more detailed account
   of these points can be found in the documentation concerning the
   negative pledge clause, prepared by FEN and forwarded to the World
   Bank. )

   All these changes, introduced over several years, have made it
   possible for FEN to function properly as a development bank,
   controlling the enterprises' financial management.  As such, its role
   has been confirmed by the present Administration, which drew up a
   reform plan for the sector in a document approved by CONPES on May 21
   this year (Estrategia para la Reestructuracidn del Sector El6ctrico).
   This defines the functions of the various institutions and, in
   particular, gives FEN responsibility for entering into performance
   contracts that set management targets for the main enterprises in the
   sector.

9. The Report also states that FEN has become a window for quasi-fiscal
   eupport for the power sector, through the capitalization of the
   institution.  This is not correct, because FEN'S capitalizatione were
   originally the result of transfers of resources from Fondo de

          Deearrollo E16~tri~0,and later came almoet exclueively from FEN'm
          own earnings.  The agency ha8 managed ite reeourcee and ieeued loanm
          am a financial institution under the eupervieion of the
          Superintendency of Banke, while seeking to maintain the molvency and
          mtability of the enterprise in question ae part of the adjustment
          proceee in the power eector and maintaining proper etewardehip of the
          reeourcee invested in FEN by local eavere, the international
          financial inetitutione and the Government itself.

          The Bank'e comment appears to refer to the mechanism operated by
          FODEX (the Foreign Currencies Fund), financed through accountm
          eetablimhed by both the National Government and Banco de la
          Repdblica.  Thie ie ueed to meet the external obligatione of a number
          of organizatione, mainly in the power eector.  Recently (about one
          year ago), FEN established a line of credit to provide loane for
          enterprieee to enable them to service their external debte in a
          timely manner.  However, theee loan8 are also granted through FEN'e
          credit facilitiee, in compliance with the principle8 laid down in ite
          Credit Regulations.  Consequently, failure on the part of the
          enterprieee to meet their obligation8 toward FEN would reeult in the
          muepeneion of diebureemente and a poeeible epeeding up of the loan
          proceee.

          I hope that you will find theee comment8 useful in preparing the
final vermion of the Report.  We would be very pleased to discuss them with you
if you coneider this necessary.

                                   Sincerely,



                            /e/ Cgear Gonzdlez MuAoz
                 President, Financiers Energetics Nacional S.A

                                                             PROJECT COWLETION REPORT

                                                                      COLOWBIA
                                                          POWER DEVELOPHENT FINANCE PROJECT
                                                                   (LOAN 2401-CO)



                                                         PART 111. SUPPLEHENTAL I~OWATION
                                                         ----------------------------------

TABLE 1. RELATED BAAR LOANS
....................................
                                       h u n t      Year                       Die-
                                        (in US$       of                    bursement
                                        m i l l -   Apro-                      ae of
           Number and Title             ion)
....................................    -------    ---------
                                                     va1        Borrwer
                                                               -----------   ---------
                                                                              4130192                          Purpoee
                                                                                         .............................................
1. 38-CO: Achicaya Hydro-electric        3.53        1950      CVClCHIDRAL     100%     Anchicaya unite 1 and 2 (2 x 12 HU hydro)

2. 39-CO: La Ineula Hydro-electric         2.6       1950         CBEC         1OOX      The Ineula unite 1 and 2 (2 x 10 IW hydro)

3. 54-CO: Labrija Hydro-electric           2.4       1951        LMRIJ A       1OOX      P a h e unite 1 and 2 (2 x 4.4 Hd hydro)

4. 113-COXAnchicaya Yumbo Power            4.5       1955        CBIDBAL       100%     Anchicaya unit 3 (20 W hydro) and Yumbo unit
                                                                                         1 (10 W thermal)

5. 215-CO: Yumbo Kxteneion                 2.8       1958        CEIDRAL       100%     Yumbo unit 2 (10 W thermal)

6. 217-COILa E-lalda                       4.6       1959         CBEC         lOOX      La K-ralda     unite 1 and 2 (2 x 13.3 Hd hydro)

7. 225-CO: Gundalupe                       12        1959          EW          lOOX      Guadalupa unite 1 and 2 (2 x 45 IW hydro) and
                                                                                         Tronerae unit 1 (18 Hd hydro)

8. 246-CO: Bogota Powr                   17.6        1960         EEEB         100%      Laguneta unit 4 (18 IW hydro) and Zipaquira
                                                                                         unit 1 (33 w thermal)

9. 255-CO: Yumbo I11 Calima I Pwer         25        1960      CVCICEIDRAL     100%      Yumbo unit 3 (33 W thermal) and Calim unite
                                                                                         1 and 2 (2 x 30 W hydro)

10. 282-CO: Second Gudalupe                22        1961          EW          lOOX      Tronerae unit 2 (18 HU hydro) and Guadalupe
                                                                                         unite 3, 4 and 5 (3 x 45 HU hydro)

11. 313-CO: Second Expaneion               50        1962         EEEB         100%      Zipaquira unit 2 (37.5 Hd hydro) and Colegio
                                                                                         unite 1, 2 and 3 (3 x 50 W hydro)

                                                                                                                                             P, P,
12. 339-C0: Pwer Expansion                 8.8       1963      CVClCEIDBAL     100%      Calimo unite 3 and 4 (2 x 30 HU hydro)              00cr
                                                                                                                                             m P
                                                                                                                                               m
13. 347-CO: Cospique Pwer                    5       1963      ELECTBIBOL      100%      Coepique unite 2 and 3 (2 x 12.5 IW thermal)        P
                                                                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                                             O
14. 369-CO: Hare                           45        1964          EPU         100%      Guatape unite 1, 2, 3 and 4 (4 x 70 W hydro)        h

                                                                                                                                             h)
15. 537-CO: Third Expansion                18        1968         EEEB         100%      El Colegio unite 4, 5 and 6 (3 x 5) W hydro
                                                                                         and Canoe. (1 x 50 W hydro)
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII=IIII~IIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIIIII~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIIIIII~

TABLE 1: Related Bank Loans (Continuation)
..........................................
                                           Amount   Year                Dis-
                                           (in US$   of                bursement
                                           mill-    Apro-                as of
           Number and Title                ion)     val     Borrwer     4130192                       Purpose
....................................       ------- -       -----------           .............................................
16. 57540: Pwer Interconnection              18                ISA               Central System Interconnection (230 kV trans-
                                                                                 mission line and Substation)

17. 681-CO: Chivor Hydroelectric            52.3               ISA               Chivor 1 (4 x 125 hydro)

18. 87440: Guatape I1 Hydroelectric          56                EPtl              Guatape I1 units 1, 2, 3 and 4         *
                                                                                 (4 x 70 LIW hydro)

19. 1582-C0: San Carlos I Hydro P w e r      126               ISA               San Carlos I (4 x 155 HW hydro)

20. 1583-CO: 500kV Interconnection           50            GOVERNMENT            500 kV Interconnection Central System/
                                                                                 Atlantic System

21. 1628-C0: Hesitas Hydroelectric P w e 84                   EEEB               El Paraiso 3 x 90 W ;La Guaca 3 x 100 W
                                                                                 pumping 3 x 10 W P ; Sesquile dam strengthening

    1725-C0: San Carlos I1 Hydro P w e r                       ISA               San Carlos 11 (4 x 155 LIW hydro)

    1807-CO: Bogota P w e r Distribution                      EEEB               Bogota distribution

    1868~CO:Guadalupe IV Hydro P w e r                         E m               Guadalupe IV (3 x 71 HW hydro)

    1953-CO: Playas Hydro P w e r                              E m               Playas (3 x 67 LIW hydro)

    1999-C0: Village Electrification                         CORELCA             Atlantic coast village electrification

    2008-CO: Guavio Hydro P w e r                             EEEB               Guavio (5 x 200 LIW hydro)

    240140: Pwer Development Finance                           FEN               P w e r development finance

                                                               FEN               P w e r development finance (Cofinancing)

    244940: Rio Grande tiultipurpose                           E m               Rio Grande Hydro (3 x 100 LIW hydro)

    263440: Bogota Distribution I1                            EEEB               Bogota Distribution I1

    2889-C0: P w e r Sector                                GOVERNHENT            P w e r Sector Adjustment

                                   Table 2: PROTECT TlMETABLfi




  WCredit Signature                        -                                   June 27, 1984

  LoanlCredit Effectiveness            May 1984                -          September 27, 1984

  Loan/Credit Closing              December 31, 1986    December 31, 1987 December 31, 1987

  Loan/Credit Completion                                       -              April 30, 1987
                                                                                             i




     Time taken to prepare project was 11 months.

b\   Date of combined Issues/Decisionspaper.

-
c\   There was no formal Appraisal Mission (para. 4.1).

       TABLE 3.1 LOAN DISBURSEMENTS (INTO SPECIAL ACCOUNTS)




                                       I        Disbursemts ('US$ Millions)

                            Semester
   Bank Fiscal                Ending                                         Actual as
     Year and               Calendar          Estimated          Actual         4% of
     Semester            MonthiYear         Cumulative       Cumulative     Estimated

I1 1. Loan 240140:




                                                                    -    --
IIa2. Midland Bank (USS) CofinancingGmup (kludii Bank loan B-6)

                                              -   (US$ Millions)-



II 3. Industrial Bank of Japan (Yen) CofinancingGroup ancludingBank loan B-7)
                                              -Qapancsc   Yen Million)-

TABLE 3.2. SUB-   DISBURSEMENTS
           (US$ Millions)

           Table 4.1  FEN's LOCAL CURRENCY
        BORROWINGS AS ESTIMATED AT APPRAISAL
             COMPARED WITH ACTUAL AMOUNTS
                   (Co1.S Millions)




Source:


    Appraisal estimates are from SAR No. 4771-C0, Annex 2.12.
Actual amounts for 1983-1989 are from FEN'S 1989 Annual Report
(English version), page 54, and for 1990 from audited financial
statements.



-11 Percentages shown for 1988-1990 are related to estimated
year-end amount for 1987.

              TABLE 4.2  FEN'S LOANS TO POWER COMPANIES
                 FROM DOMESTIC FUNDS AS ESTIMATED AT
               APPRAISAL COMPARED WITH ACTUAL AMOUNTS
                          (Col.$ Millions)




      Appraisal estimates are from SAR No. 477140. Annex 2.12, using
total loans to power companies less external obligations and less
estimates of official funds which did not actually materialize.
Actuals are from audited financial statements.


I/    Percentages shown for 1988-1990 are related to estimated year
end for 1987.

                          TABLE 5.1. PEN'S RETURN ON EQUITY COMPARED TO INFLATION,
                              AS ESTIMATED AT APPRAISAL AND ACTUALLY ACHlEVED
                                                   (ColSmillions and 96)




-11   Appraisal estimates are from SAR No. 4771-CO. Average equity is an average of beginning aud
end of year net worth amounts as estimated in Annex 2.12     . Profits are the yearly net incomeamounts
as estimated in Annex 2.14. The rate of return is a calculated percentage of profita to average equity.
The inflationpercentages are the expected local inflationrates as shown in h e x 5.40 of SAR.

-21   Actual average equity amounts are an average of beginningand end of year shareholders' equity as
reported: for end 1982in Annex 2.12 of SAR Report No. 4771-CO; for 1983-1989at page 52 of FEN'S
1989h u n l Report (English version); and for 1990in the independentauditors*report for that year.
The additional ColS 19,760 million of equity capital paid in by the Government in December 1990h
been omitted from the year end 1990amount. Had it been included, the average equity for 1990would
have been ColS 72,953 million.

       Actual profits for 1983-1989 are the amounts reported at page 53 of the aforementioned 1989
annual report, except that foreign exchange gains credited directly to shareholders*equity have also beon
included (see Annex I, para. 9). The profit for 1990is the amount shown in the independent auditors'
report for that year similarlyadjusted. The resultingadditiom to profita are ColS 992 million for 1988,
ColS4.233 million for 1989, and ColS 3,379 million for 1990.

       The rate of return is a calculated percentage of profits to average equity. Excludingthe foreign
exchange gains credited directly to stockholdera' equity, the rato of return would be 13.6% in 1988,
5.6% in 1989and 13.9% in 1990.

       The inflationpercentages are calculated from consumer price indices (1985sloo), period
averages, as reported in InternationalFinancial Statistics, 1991yearbook, published by International
Monetary Fund.

TABLE 5.2:           -
----------.----------------------------------------------------------.----------------
               FEN     COllPARISOW OF PROJECTED VS ACTUAL SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS ( i n current ColS milliars) AND SELE'TED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS




Liquidity
Loans t o Pauer Canpenles
Fixed     Other assets

Total Assets

                                                                                                                                                       I
                                            -
Local Obligations                         8500   18500        30300    45000  62900    6036   7540   11878     12272  lm 28637 48885 65729
External obligations                             25230        35167    60709  91854       0  29078   64243    95149 131134 216456 337138 528669
Officlal Funds                  ------- ------- -----.-.------ ------- ------- -.-.--- ------- ------- ------- ------- .------
                                                   4369        6139   -------
                                                                        8429  11391     826   1194   ---.---
                                                                                                      2537     6769    7959  17131    34335  49104

Total Liabilities                    0    8500   58099        71606 114138 164145 1    6862  37812   80658 114210 156801 262424 420358 643502

                                                                                    1
Net Uorth                        10148    12439  15569        19765    2-2    305951 13637   17373   21819    25590   29989  35441    41843  72953

Net l n c o r I/                           17811   3150        4176     4837   5W3     3003   3690    44%      3)R     4434   5454     6402  11351

-------
MTIOS

Dcbtfiq~it y 2/                             0.7     3.1         3.6      4.6    5.4     0.5    2.2     3.7      4.5     5.2    7.4     10.0    6.8
Gross Spreod 3/                             8.5%    4.m         4.6%     3.5%   3.0%   14.6%   6.7%    4.4%     2.7%    2.4%   1.8%     1.4%   1.6%
Incremnt i n Net Yorth                     22.6%   25.3%       26.8%    24.5%  24.4%   34.4%   27.4%  25.6%    17.3%   17.2%   18.2%   18.1%  27.1%5/
lncrcrnt I n Loans Outstdin0 4/             2.2     3.1         1.4       1.5   1.4     1.7    2.5     2.1      1.6     1.4    1.6      1.5    1.7
-------------------------------------------------
1/ A c t u l net incola for 1986 through 1990 has been r a t a t d m errplaind i n the second parwrqh of footnote U of Table 5.1
2/   Total inrkbtcdrms over net w r t h
3/   Net I n c a r as a p r c c n t w of total w e t s
4/   Net of r e p a m t o
51 B      d m pr-adnet-worth of ColS53.193 m ercluslve of ColS19,760                of equity c8pital paid i n by the Goverment i n Deccnkr 1990

Source8:
-*.-----

a/ kllbr 2.13 of Staff Appraisal Report NO.        4771-W.
b/ FEN  -  l n f o r r & evalkmclon final del c r p r a t i t o FEN-BIRF 2401-W; 8nd FEN- 1990 Annual Report




Flle: TABLE-52.W

                                                68 -OF          co-
             -
                   p




Forapdbdpvporr&hnLrpprwdub-b.ry&tamtul..Lud
ch.M e a nPllla d I..;

I a i d ~ l n o o ~ a a p c l d . e s o l l l l t o t t b . ~ k a L . d t h u w i t r 0 ~
~ . . . p o d i b u r - ~ ~

For hnlMt m h h w
                                                                                             432.433.536
F o r o l i n d t d . m o u n t o f r r t r o u U v m ~ d OWIbrdp-



F o r ~ d u l . . L u p v o n v d u d u ~ d u m ~ r r b k & h a l ~ I o I o f
P-PtuPdn(Alrrmrrt;




&dldapdlld~ r r m t l o ~

r h . l l b . p r u o t d 0 t b . ~ o a o r b d o r n D r ~ 3 1 . 1 ~ ; d

r h . l l b . ~ i n ~ 1 p u t o f ~ 0 b . n u d o 0 I C E L d C O R E L . C A
d y U h n L h r k a ~ m ~ t ~ c h . n N m r m b r 3 0 . 1 W I d t b


~ 6 n ~ d d ~ ~ . d o r y O c h . h n l r f o r O r ~ p m r ~ ~
m ~ v . ~ p ~ d p r l ~ ~ ( i . ~ m l # U t h r o y h




F Z N t o . m p b y ~ b y J ~ 1 4 . l W t o ~ & k . r k n l r . l ~ ~
m-gU=k          prgmd       (0) 01) ( S u p p l I*)~      u s k hnlr wd&hm




                                       0a l b u mQULidaryb.ny;-b




                                                                                             hru.532439




F E N t o n u i n t . i a p m c d u n r d r ~ ~ ~ O d ~ r d r c o n l t b . ~ o f
ch.Projut md Yhmbpmj.C(:

           to br a d t d d           jby Indopadmtauditon acc.mbl.               to th.B.nlr;

           tobrubaiadbtbBralrbyMurh31ofachyu;

           To Wud. m audit of tlu Nwt.d ~ Q t u r a

           ~ t o ~ r r t o r t b B . n L a r * p o r ( o t w h w o p . . n d d . S . U u t h . B . n l r                  Th.Bank dldnot-
           rrroprbly npurtr Ibodng:                                                                                        Uul luch inlomadaa k
                                                                                                                          induddhtbeuutrfi
   0)                      no kbr thn 60 day. aftu th.                nprtd,Itr pwfo-r                                    lrpoltlslhdbdlmda
           durbgth. 1 2 m o p t h p u l o d p n c ~ t h . a d o f t b ~ r t . r u l d p m J c t d l o r                   3.03 (a)
           t h . f ~ l 2 m o ~ t h p ~

  01)      k r a ~ m k ~ ~ ( O & y m r h r r h . d o f ~ ~ y u , u p B - d . w                                                      PanS29
           p m j r h of ZEN'# b&w. h m u , .c.t.mda of b c c u mdmtnauatr of    ~                            rrkmi.drmwu
           wurcr mdapdkadoa of b d a for tb following wm-yupubd.                                             muk f o r b
                                                                                                             yur 1986-19%

4.040)     YENto m.in,.indobUqulty ndo mpclRd in & c h 4.05:                                                    Notnut               RN

  a)       FBN to takamuombl. utlon to bAq muh ndo to within tbL lLnlLh                                        dac* 1988            5 1 M U
           pmmptly U tb nth t acrdd.

4-Mb)      FEN'm dobUequity nth not to prcad7:l drh any n m bornwing;                                          Not nut          P u u 5.49-SSS

4 . m )    PEN,             P.b-ry     of rchyean

   a)      ~           t.e~or~ly
                               . to aulbodolgl~ t l ~ rtouBt~ ~ :~         L

           ( A ~ P T p Q d l ~ 1 0 k t O c u m d b y F l L N ~ f d o ~ l t ~

           O ) l o r r J d & ~ ~ t l o n w r r l c . ~ o f P E N ~ r t h . u a u p r i o d l

  a)       Mtnuina rumororth.12-monthphl,SO%eonrutlbl. to cub rrlthLcr90                                         Md
           &jm, bdmm comrdbl. mithin 30 &jm.                m t l u rh.nth.mumofi

           (A) 116            &td       apmQtwa for th.phod, plru;

           @) 142 FEN'# ariuubdI             d drbt rmorrlvllon wrrlc. nqdnmmh forth.
           YM      p.rlod.

 4.m       ~ ~ r o ~ u ~ ~ . r t . p ~ ~ ~ ~ r b u r r u l ~ i r p m MII ~ h n t r ~ t                            ~ .
           u c l u a g m d k 1-          opontio~.

 4.09      BuakmdFEN, atL.raquutof                 dthapy, t o a r d m u f m m U m e t o                         Mat
           Um withwardtoadmbhtndaa, opn-                         dllnsdalcolldikuofPEN
           a o d m to f u d A d h ~ f o ~ p u d o l l k a-kb~lj y w                      c a v e
                     a-QI1.           o p n w uld fio.actldh.

 4.10              to ~     b hnL n p r r c ~ ~ dtow
                                 h                       bpRt ~ r d darad b h&&OE
                                                                             r                         4.01      MOl
           (.).nd~*Mtdocumacr;

 4.11      PElYbW~tor.ndB.nL~Ikcarb.r31.1Wur.LupLlbl.pl.nof                                                    NotM*            P a w . S.W.16
           &Ionto aubl~EZNtomh-inth.                           C o h m b h u p i t d m u l u r o n a loq
           mdd u m mmhub;

4.12b)     ~ b ~ ~ ~ m h ~ ~ C d o ~ ~ ~ ~ t h n C d 0NOtMU0 , ~ m Pi ~l N5.16-6.18 n ~                           ~                     l b
           1% 11.800 milhaduhg 1985.14.700 nJllbnd d q 19sLend 17.W mWon
           -19s7;


4.126)     F E N . C I v l r a t D r ~ B m k r h . l l ~ r d m u ~ k ~ ~ A p r i l 1 o f r c b                   Md                 Pan 5.17
           y r r on PEIU'm p r h r n u l u m of it. born*       a d lcd& o                 w           cb
           v.aku 12-montb priedandit.pmjactd b o r n e a d 1-                              opontlom
           d d q t h . ~ a K c * l 2 ~ p r i o d .
                                                                                                                                               .I

                 the powr rector
                  -tor      oa thm Q

                                                                                                                  P a m 5.10 5.12
                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                             m t to Wre action.




        r wlutlon for the dlvolution or Uquidntionof FEN




                                                        frvonble t h givm to d d r r
                                                                          ~




        Elnndd irrlon~tionfor pow- cornpanic.:

        E.chof the Powu Cornpanic.IIuU:

        &re itm vcormtl utd fhuaddat.-             r w b d by indepodsnt auditon                    Met
        .cc.pt.ble to the

(b)     M d e FPN        Ltarthan 4 montb &or md of each y n r c d d topic. of the                  Met
        6aud.l             for m u b year:

(c)     hvideFENrnthtarrhn6month1 r h m d ofeach ynrup-to-dat.                                     Not Met
        projectiou of the nDuwid &teaad# for the f o U o h mwmyear pried;


(a)     provide FZN with ocher 6n.nci.l i n f o n ~ t b nu FEN rhllreuoorbly mqud to               Not Met
        ~ b l m F E N t o m l i n t l i n . n u p d . t d ~ i . I ~ o f t h e p o w u u w p . n ~ .


4.01    CPdW apeadhum lhit.tbn. A power eornpmy b not to commit Ltwlf to n m
        upltal l n p ~ d I M
                           other thuiongobg4rlu until dz-projeeh a n complete
        unlar:

(a)     propod nn* projrt b commiullyj d l i d ; and

(b)     a m 4 ulpendi-,     Including new project, .h.Unot a c e d 1%of currant n a                 Met
        vdw of itm h r d MI&  for the w r r a p o o ~  year, or U it &a, it hu obtained
        6naming undw cnaditiom whth will not adrandy affectitm M d waditiool
     dp r f o ~ofeItmobti&ahutoPEN. (Suppl.manU1lattergivatirtofom
        going pmjectm .~[dudedfrom thu condition)

-.

    fOWEfl                                                                                                                  PART I
   mNANa@IG                                                                                       STARlSOP       ,     RgpggWCeO&.
   AGREBMENT                                     I)lsaPmM                                        COMPLIANCE               REkLARKS

     4.04(a)    EPM, CVC W u d i n g CHIDRAL). EEEB. CORELCA. and W to mlintllin                   Not Met
                tariffs mauing nta of rr(um M foUou.:

                                                                In 1985md thaufbr
                - ,                            7%                        10%
                CVC                            9%                         9%
                EEEB                           14%                        14%
                CORELCA                       11%                        11%
                m                              9%                         9%

       (b)      th.pomr wmp.nles of (I) to &.ra in the B n t hro month of eachquarter of           Not M u         MetoalpbyEPMaadISA
                th.W yar, the adequacy of the& tariffs and hunisbto th.Bank and FEN the
                M L t a of w h re4.v:


       (c)      h d d a porrvcompanymtarrpet tocamthe y & n b o f n ( u r n f o r t h e n a t      Not M u
                124mntb period ineludiq the quarter of the mprt, it b u l d adjust ib tariffs
                wrdingly to be in effet m later t      .the md of the fohwhg qurtar.

      4.05      EERB to takm Np (including adj*         it. t a m s and ebyu for the supply rnd    Not Met
                d e of dsctrkity) u rsprdrsd to h Rm& h9m inrunrl murca
                                                        that
                gmentd by EEEB hpll be equivolcotto mt leu than foUowhg prcentym of
                EEBB'r invahnpnb hk e d nu& aad ISA for esrhyear

                - - - -
                1984          1985         1986            1987
                35%            1%           55%             55%

      4.06      Except u FJW otherhe rgrsa, each Pomr Campmy a h d l not 'hew 4long                U r ~ e & i n  EPM complied. ISA
                term debt d e v a runonable foncut dom that for syh gear dwing the term of                        nquatadaad lscdvd
                the debt, the debt servicewvorye tat indiestor Cm&d cd genendoddsbt                               arcmpdoru from the
                aewice rsputemat) would ba not l a a rbPn:                                                        rqui~wnmt

       (I)      CORELCA                      1J
       @)       19A.EPM, EEEB, CVC          IS
                -
       aii)     ICEL                          13 (from 1/88)

      4.07      Euh pomr company, M r lhPrrbol&n of FEN.to tpka 9uaon n e c v to                     Met
                        PEN &a not p y 4cnrh dividend or m p u c h u Ita ahamof ltoclr for
              cd.

     5.01(a)    ISA to coopamtowith FEN to auble FEN to fulfill ita obligatioru under SSbcon         Met
               4.13 of UuLoan Agr~~mmt.

       (a)      ISA to -bulge   v i m with the Gunnutor, the BPnL md FEN on M annual b S           Not Met              PIN 5.105.12
                punrpnt to pmvtionr of p n g n p h (b) of secdon 4.13 of the Loan -rot.

      5.02      ISA to cooperntowith G-tor        to prepre price indar for the ElectricitySabr    Not Met        On29 hf8y 1985,LPA unt
                pvnvnt to Sacdon 3.06of the GumnuteaAgnanmt.                                                      the Govemrruotr propoul
                                                                                                                  for wmpudnt a h   M
                                                                                                                  tadex, but the GOVMDUP~
                                                                                                                  bok no .ctloaoathL
                                                                                                                  pmpoul. AIM s- pan.
                                                                                                                  527

      5.03      ISA to pmpm m t lrbr than April 30 in each ymar a study on updntad                   Met                P a m 5.105.12
                dahicity d-        g m d projcdow and m         r h v ~ mpmg- t       for
                pvparof the &ow        of Section 3.13 of the Guamtm -mt

      5.04      ISA and 1CR.L d ISA and CORELCA. jointly with Gumator, b prepare                     Met                   P a n 33
                w h e m f e d to in sub-paragraph(c) (ti) (B)of Sadoa 2.03 of Loan
                Agrsemcnt md Wte dl utioru nacaury to auble Guarantor to fulfill ib
                obUgatiowunder paragraph (a) uetion 3.11 of Grunnta Agmuncot


      6.01      PEN may a v p d dhbuncmcnt of suMouu if (I)         I power company defaultr in   Not rpplld      P a n 537.
                pymenb to FTiN under W o a m or other loan aysanmt helwem~FEN rnd the                             Although them w m
                power company; or (b)a power company defaulta in the prfo-e           of lqy                      htmca\mdv (a) md(b)
                other obligationby a power company under the Power               Agmund or                        whm FXN auld have actd
                #ul*idiar~Lorn Agroemmt or nqy other Loan Agroarmnt -em           FXN md the                      it cbou m t to. Th.
                rspsctive power compmy; or (c) PEFPs ri&t to mnke withdrawah m&r th.                              wnditlon In (c) nner a m .
                project loam u suspended.

                                                                                                                               aithoutthis condition b&

                                                                                                                               impleme&athn of the
                                                                                                                               project did not meedin
                                                                                                                               fall. Reportedly,more
                                                                                                                               recntaMlysiciadicates
                                                                                                                               that the project now meets
                                                                                                                               nnthereqlhduitorin.
                                                                                                                               weptfor aeom-
                                                                                                                               fhccing~whiehh
                                                                                                                               expechdtobedosedhthe
                                                                                                                               near term.

3.03(a)   G ~ ~ ~ t o r t o ~ d a C t i o m t o d l e F E N t o p ~ p u e p l n n o f & t o                       NotMeI       FENdidwtpreparestrb
          d mresourceh theColombii capital marketreferredto in Sdon 4.11                                                       a PIpO. See parar 5.U-5.16
           of the Loam AgreemmG and

  (b)     prompuy put PIpO illto effect

 3.04      Gnar~ntortoLPLeor-etobetaltmPndru=qtoerPbleFEN                                                           Met        FEN did not meet targets
           to meet itr borrowkg targctr hthe Colombian capital marketre(fonh in                                                but thi, wns not due to lack
           pamppb (a)of Section 4.12 of the Loan Aprrammt.                                                                     of Governmentsupport
                                                                                                                               relacadtoaccerrtothe
                                                                                                                               cawmarket

3.OS(a)    n o t L s t o r ~ A p r i l l o f e e c h y c a r , G ~ u r ~ n t o r t o ~ e r i e r n a i t h t h e    Met                 Para5.11
           Baok and FEN for the purpose of paragraph (b) of k t h 4.12 ofthe LOM
           4Pe-ePt;


  (b)      Not Inter than Ang& 31 of BDfh year,Guaraniar to achange riear with the                                Not a~ei           Pam 5.1C5.12
           Bank, FEN and ISA for the pupme of k t b m 4.13 (b)of the Lorn
           Agreglmt.

3.06(a)    Gunmutorto famish to B m k not Inter than D~rembv31,1984 for review                                    Notluet               Para 531
           andcommenb, propwal for the comptation of price index of variation of
           prices of demicsectorgoo& and              &IS;


  (b)      star@ Jnnnny 1,1985, commtcand pblisb the v-                                hthbprice                  Not M ~ I             Para537
           ides.                                                                                               --
 3.07      Gluru~tortotnLcdactionatodthepowwcomprnierto~d                                                         Not luet        Paras5.16,5.20,537
           ma;nta;ldectridtytarifhdehargeratlerelr~tofal6ll&of
           thpir obligationsp m m ~to Section 4.04 of the Power h a d q Agreunmt.
                                             ~ t

 3.08      GuarantorondortPLesto takaall vtioruto cnavc the timely procarrm~~                            of         Met
           the goods and services mqwhd for each projeEt.

 3.09      C n a r P n t o r t o t n L c P n a c ~ m o n b ~ ~ m h p h p r ~ ~ o f ~Not Met                        .
           to d b Powv Companies to perform their raspeetiveobligationsC i d i q
           fhadall under thePower Aaamiq Agreement.

 3.10      No taxer to be levied on Power Fhnchg Aprranent.                                                         Met

3.11(a)    Prepueaodhmkhto Bmkmlaterthau N o v c m b e r 3 0 , 1 9 8 4 , t h e ~ d                                  Met                  Pam3 3
           schemesr8ferredto in sub-pnmgrpph (c) (ii)Seetion2.03 of the Loan
                                                                   of
           A V - d .

  (b)      take,plrd cawICEL and CORELCAto take,PO diem-,                                                       Not applicPble           Pam 3 3
           hc4ubiog h d y provision of budgotuy r r s o ~to mbb mrh power ~ ~ ,
           compcllliesto ury out the plans Pnd schemereferredto.

  (Cf      U e P n w t i o P r n e e ~ , ~ h ~ p r i d o n o f M , t o d l e                                        Met        Applicable ody to
           ICEL and CORELCA to make paymmtr Feqclirodto &e                             the sub-baas                            CORELCA
           and FEN l o w made to them by FEN under the pmjsc

                     -
t 0 u r r y w t u l ~ v e m ~ p l p l l b 1 ( 8 d ~ m ~ m m ~
   - -                                                                 aipBlrforbr,dartL
of sbuly urr4d ad by ICEL'r Dirkion& Aworir Conhd M m h k a i ~ o      &ah--
.ot      thru         31,1984;                                         --a-

                            31,1984, r p d h i n qeztbata of ICEL'r
                                          thecdm, to mrlw the

                                                           -  83  -

                                         Table 7:        USE OF BANK RESOURCES



                                               A.   STAFF INPUT 12401-C01
                                                        (Staff Weeks)




                         Bank FY           1983      1984     1985    1986      1987     1988     1989       Total



Through Appraisal                       -  20.9      16.2                                                      37.1

Negotiations                                        27.6                                                      27.6

Supervision                                           2.4       6.3   11.9       6.7       4.6     1.5        33.4

        Total                             20.9      46.2        6.3   11.9       6.7       4.6      1.5       98.1




                                                 B. &4ISSION DATA fLOAEl2401C01




   Post-Appniul I           3/83               3             16.6        80-0.2PE
                                                                       2FA,2CO,U)

   Po&-Appniul I1           4/83               1              1             1 FA

   Port-AppniulIII          10183              2              2             1 FA

   SupervisionI             9/84               1.5            1             1 PE             1

   SuporvisionI1            3/85              1.5            0.5            1 PE             1

   Suporvirionm             10185             1.5             3          2 (PE. FA)          1
L


   SupervisionN             8/86               3              3             1 CO             1              M

   TOTAL                                     16.5            33.1


i\      1 -- Probkm-freoor minor problem; 2 = Moderate problem; and 3 = Major Problerm
                         -
        F    F-ial;   T    Technical; M = Management

e\      PE = Power Engineer; PA = Financial Analyst; E = Economist; LO = Loan Oficer. CO = Coonrlta~,LA = Lawyor

-d\     No infomution available in the Project File.

        Mission to promote participationof CoGncein in BLoan.

                                                                                               JwmU
                                                                                         Page 1 of 12



                                     PROJECT COMPLmION REPORT

                                             COLOMBIA
                             POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
                                          LOAN (2401-COI




           UNILATERAL SIX MONTH EXTENSION OF SUBLOAN AMORTIZATION PERIOD




1.       By letter dated July 19, 1988, FEN informed t h e Bank t h a t a t a meeting on
July 14, 1988, i t e Board of Directore had adopted a reeolution which extended t h e
eubloan amortization period by eix monthe.                  Under t h e reeolution, effective
August 1, 1988, t h e eix month exteneion wae applicable t o amortization paymente
due between t h a t date and January 31, 1989, and t o a l l eucceeeive paymente
previouely scheduled on eubloane made from t h e proceeds of t h e "A" and "B" loane,
ae w e l l a s certain eubloane from local reeourcee.            Thie action wae taken without
prior coneultation with o r coneent by t h e Bank.                Section 3.02 (b) of t h e Loan
Agreement, however, provides that, except ae t h e Bank ehall otherwiee agree, FEN
s h a l l not amend, o r f a i l t o enforce any provieion of, t h e eubeidiary loan
agreemente entered i n t o f o r relending t h e "A" and "B" loane.                      In order t o
determine whether t o approve t h e action taken, t h e Bank requested FEN t o provide
it with financial projectione for the next two yeare eo that it could eee how
FEN'S financee w e r e affected.         The Bank aleo aeked FEN, when similar caeee a r i e e
i n t h e future, t o provide it with an opportunity t o comment before decieione a r e
taken, a s required by t h e loan documente (letter dated Auguet 16, 1988).

2.       The information provided by FEN i n reeponee t o t h e Bank's request i e
available i n t h e project f i l e e i n t h e form of detailed financial projectione f o r
t h e period 1988-1990, dated September 12, 1988.                An internal etaff memorandum
dated November 28, 1988, refere t o , but doee not include, actual and forecaet
financial statements f o r t h e period 1984-90 prepared from t h e information
received from FEN and available i n t h e f i l e e .       The memorandum etatee t h a t theee
show t h a t t h e extension of t h e eubloan amortization period w i l l not have any
material e f f e c t on FENte financee and t h a t FEN would continue t o have adequate
financial ratios.      On t h i e baeie, it recommende t h a t a letter be eent expreeeing
no objection t o t h e modification of t h e eubeidiary loan agreements.                   The letter
was sent on December 2, 1988.              It refere t o FEN's letter of September 13 and
telefax of November 11 eupplying information requested by t h e Bank (both of which
a r e mieeing from t h e f i l e e ) ; it emphaeizee t h a t t h e procedure u t i l i z e d by FEN t o
modify t h e eubeidiary loan agreemente without prior agreement of t h e Bank wae not
i n accordance with Section 3.02 (b) of t h e Loan Agreement; it etatee t h a t ae an
exception i n t h i e inetance t h e Bank hae decided t o approve t h e s i x month
extension of t h e amortization period of t h e eubloane t o t h e power companiee; and
it concludee by requesting the pereonal intervention of FEN's President, t o whom
the l e t t e r wae addreeeed, t o eneure e t r i c t compliance i n t h e future with t h e
provieione of t h e loan documente.

3.     The only specific information i n t h e aforementioned memorandum i e a l i s t i n g
by company of t h e amounte of t h e amortization paymente poetponed f o r eix monthe,

                                                                         ANNEX I
                                                                    Page 2 of 12


totalling USS18.9 million for the subloans made using the proceeds of the "A" and
"B" loans and USS11.9 million for subloans made from funds raised locally. These
are significant amounts and one would have expected some discussion, beyond the
conclusory judgments stated, of the effect of these postponements on FEN'S
finances.  The memorandum was prepared by an assistant level analyst. The file
copy of the letter of December 2, 1988, notes that it was cleared in substance
by a senior financial analyst, but this matter may have received only cursory
attention by him.    Considering the record as it now exists with some of the
supporting material for the Bank's conclusions missing from the files, one is
left with the impression that the Bank's financial analysis was superficial, and
that the Bank, having been presented with a fait accompli, decided it had no
choice but to accede to the extension with the admonition that FEN seek the
Bank's  prior approval for any future modifications of the subsidiary loan
agreements. Nevertheless, as demonstrated in the next section relevant to FEN'S
profitability, the conclusion that the extension had no material impact on FEN'S
finances was appropriate even though the further claim that FEN'S      financial
ratios would continue to be adequate was not.

Im~actof Extension on FEN'S Profitability.

4.   It is uncertain what financial ratios were calculated in the analysis which
led to the conclusion in the aforementioned memorandum that they would continue
to be adequate.    It is implicit, however, that a very significant ratio was
omitted, namely the rate of return earned on FEN'S equity. As shown in Part 111,
Table 5.1, FEN'S real return on average equity was significantly positive in 1983
and 1984. It became marginally negative in 1985 and substantially so in 1986 and
1987, when the nominal return on equity for each of these years was 16% in
comparison to rates of inflation of 19% and 23%. respectively. These historic
negative returns should not have been characterized as adequate.

5.     The projections supplied by FEN explicitly called attention to the
expectation that the rate of return on equity for 1988 would be negative by about
10 percentage points. As shown in Table 5.1, the actual nominal return on equity
for 1988 was 16.7% compared to an inflation rate of 28.1%.     FEN'S projections
that its return on equity for 1989 and 1990 would match the rate of inflation did
not prove to be accurate. The actual return on equity in 1989 was 16.6% compared
to an inflation rate of 25.8%, and in 1990 the actual return was 23.9% compared
to an inflation rate of 29.1%.    As analyzed below, although FEN subsequently
concluded that the extension contributed to a decline in its profitability in
1988 and 1989, this is based on an incomplete statement of its net profits (see
para 9).   In any case, as a result of its evaluation of the justification
presented for the extension, the Bank should have become aware that FEN'S rate
of return on equity in recent yeare had been substantially lees than the rate of
inflation and inquired into the reasons for this unsatisfactory relationship and
the remedies that might be proposed for correcting it.

6.    With respect to the subloans made from the proceeds of the "An and nB"
loans, the postponed amortization payments were the initial repayments due
thereunder at the end of the four year grace period originally provided. Of the
total amount of repayments to FEN which otherwise would have been payable,

                                                                         Am?zu
                                                                    Page 3 of 12


USS17.1 million was due between October 31 and December 18, 1988, and USS1.8
million on January 15, 1989. Since the four year grace period under the "A" and
"B" loans also ended in 1988, FEN had already begun, on June 27, 1988, to repay
these loans, To make up for the funds foregone as a result of its decision to
extend the subloan amortization period, FEN had to increase its borrowings from
the domestic capital market.    According to FEN'S Annual Report for 1989, the
costs of this increase in peso borrowings were not totally recovered and this had
an adverse impact on its finances in 1988 which extended into 1989 (English
Version, Section headed "Financial Managementw, pages 11 and 14).         In the
analysis which follows, it is assumed that the extension of amortization of
subloans from locally raised funds had no adverse impact because the interest
rates charged on such subloans include an appropriate margin over the cost of
raising local funds.

7.   There are two sources of income to FEN resulting from the extension of the
amortization period of the subloans made from the proceeds of the "A" and "B1'
loans: interest income and increases in the peso values of these foreign currency
denominated subloans due to exchange rate adjustments.    The latter ie the more
significant of the two sources.    FEN's  interest income on the amount of the
subloans from external sources remaining outstanding due to the postponed
amortization is based on foreign determined interest rates (of about 9-10% in
1988-90) applied to the US$ equivalent value of the subloans and translated into
pesos at the exchange rate applicable at the time of payment.        That income
initially would be substantially less than the interest costs incurred at much
higher rates (of about 30-40% in 1988-90) on the peso amount of borrowings from
the domestic capital market equivalent in value to the postponed amortization
payments based on the exchange rates applicable when they were originally due.
The peso amount of these borrowings would remain fixed and rolled aver as long
as necessary throughout the nine year period for repaying the subloans.      The
subloans, however, are repayable in pesos equivalent to the foreign currencies
in which the source of the subloans, namely the "An and "8" loans, are or were
repayable. As a result of the increase in the peso value of the foreign subloans
reflecting the devaluation of the peso, the interest income on the extended
portion of the subloans will also increase and in time equal and then surpass the
interest costs on the fixed emount,of peso borrowings incurred because of the
extension of the amortization period.    As it would have appeared in 1988, a
period of about four to five years would be needed before the break even point
is reached.

8.    More important, the increase in the peso value of the foreign currency
denominated subloans is also available to offset the initially higher interest
costs on the domestic peso borrowings incurred because of the extension of the
amortization period.  The average annual increase in the US$ exchange rate in
1989 and 1990 was about 30%.  Thus, taking both of these sources of income into
account, the extension of the foreign subloans should not have caused a decline
in FEN'S profitability for more than a brief period; the impact of the extension
on FEN'S profits would become neutral within at most a year and thereafter would
be positive. Parenthetically, it should be noted that the impact of the action
taken by Colombian authorities effective in October 1991 to allow the exchange
rate to be determined in a free market was not foreseeable in 1988. Earlier in

                                                                         MmLZ
                                                                    Page 4 of 12


1991, other actions had been taken to revdue the peso.    As a result, there has
been a substantial real appreciation of the peso.   In 1991, as measured by the
official Col$/US$ rate, the nominal devaluation of the peso was 24.3%, about the
same as the difference in inflation between Colombia and the USA: as measured by
the parallel or free market rate, the nominal devaluation was 13%, some 10% below
the Colombian-US inflation differential (TheEconomist Intelligence Unit, Country
Report No. 1 1992, page 17).   Since October 1991, FEN and the power companies
have been using the parallel rate to effect transactions in foreign currency and
to denominate their foreign currency obligations.

9.   As reported by FEN in its annual financial statements for 1988-90, net
profits include only that part of its foreign exchange gains which are credited
to *direct operating incomen and exclude substantial amounts of foreign exchange
adjustments which are credited directly to nstockholders' equity".           This
distinction is not explained but it may be related to income tax consequences.
As so reported, however, FEN'S rate of return on equity shows declines to levels
of about 13% in 1988 and 5% in 1989. This is the basis onwhich FEN concluded in
its 1989 Annual Report, as mentioned in para 6, that the costs of the peso
borrwings to make up for the funds foregone because of the extension of the
subloan amortization period were not fully recwered and that this adversely
affected its finances. In calculating the higher rates of return stated in para
5, all exchange gains including'those credited directly to stockholdero' equity
are counted as part of net profits, as the more appropriate way to measure FEN'S
perfomance. On this basis, as stated in para 8, the costs of the increased peso
borrowings were fully recwered and the extension of the subloan amortization
period had no material adverse impact on FEN'S profitability.

Broader Context for Evaluating Post~onementof Subloan Amortization.

10.   It is important to note that even without the extension it was necessary
for FEN to raise considerable amounts through domestic borrowings in order to
meet its repayment obligations under the nA" and "B" loans in 1988.    The total
of about US$44 million due and repaid on these loans by FEN in 1988 was aver
US$27 million more than the postponed repayments due to FEN on the subloans to
the power companies made from the proceeds of those loans   . Loan repayments by
FEN continued to be higher than subloan repayments to it for the next three
years.  The cumulative negative balance reaches a peak at the end of 1991 of
US$57 million as originally scheduled and of US$75 million as modified. This is
shown in Table A hereto, which presents a comparison of FEN's repayments on the
"An and "B" loans with the repayments to FEN on the eubloans as originally
scheduled and as modified for the six month extension of the subloan amortization
period.   The US$ equivalent amounts in this table, which are used in this
analysis, are based on the equivalent values of the loans and subloans as of the
time they were made or drawn down and do not reflect the impact of subsequent
changes in exchange rates applicable to the nAn loan because of the Bank's
currency pooling system and to the Japanese yen denominated "Bn loan.    After a
grace period of four years, the repayment period is 13 yeare for the "An loan,
and four years for the commercial bank share of the "B" loans plus an additional
one and one half to two years for the Bank and Nordic Investment Bank shares of
the     loans.   Thus, repayments by FEN are exclusively for the "A" loan from

                                                                         Amxd
                                                                    Page 5 of 12


1995 to 2001. The repayment period on the subloans is nine years after a grace
period extended from four to four and one half years.

11.    From 1992 through 1997, the position reverses and FEN would receive more
in repayments from the power companies than it must repay on the "A" and "Bn
1 0 ~ s . On a cumulative basis the net position becomes positive by 1995 as
originally scheduled and by 1996 as modified.   The maximum positive position is
reached in 1997 in the amount of USS43.4 million as originally scheduled and of
USS41.8 million as modified.    In 1998, when the final payments to FEN on the
subloans are made, the amounts FEN receives from these repayments by the power
companies are once again smaller than FEN'S repayment obligations. Thereafter,
the remaining balance of USS32.66 million on the "A" loan is to be repaid in 5
semiannual installmenta, ending March 1, 2001, using the cumulative positive
balance of funds received from repayment of the subloans.

12.   Thus, FEN'S finances have had to reflect the need to borrow local funds to
compensate for its net negative position with respect to repayment obligations
related to the "A"and "B" loans during 1988-1991.     In subsequent years, FEN'S
finances will reflect the maintenance of the borrowings as long as necessary.
As explained in para 8, the extra carrying costs of these borrowings should be
fully offset by the interest income earned on the corresponding arnount of
subloans that remain outstanding plus the foreign exchange adjustments in their
pesovalues. During 1992-1997, FEN'S financeswill also reflect the consequences
of annual net positive positions.    One consequence will be a decrease in the
amount of foreign currency denominated subloans, on which FEN earns interest and
benefits from increases in their peso values as a result of currency devaluations
in relation to the peso. As an offset, FEN would be able to utilize the annual
surpluses to repay local borrowings or for additional local loans to the power
companies or other peso investments.    Except as stated in the next paragraph,
these offsets should be adequate to protect FEN from any material adverse effects
on its profitability because it had to borrow local funds during 1988-1991 to
meet higher repayment obligations on the "An and "B" loans than the amounts
repaid to it on the subloans made from those sources.

13.    The situation changes when there is a cumulative surplus of funde repaid
from subloans over the amounts repaid by FEN on the "A" and "B" loans. When this
occurs, in 1996 under the revised amortization schedule as compared to 1995 under
the original schedule, the outstanding amount of subloans will be less than the
outstanding amount borrowed by FEN to finance them.     From that time, FEN will
bear the foreign exchange riek on the borrowings to the extent that their
outstanding amount exceeds that of the subloans, and after the subloans are
completely repaid in 1998, FEN will bear the entire foreign exchange risk. There
can be no assurance that FEN'S earnings on the peso surpluses accumulated to
repay the borrowings will be adequate to offset fully the foreign exchange risk
which can no longer be passed on to the power companies.

14.   In this context, the six month extension of the subloan amortization period
effective August 1, 1988, has a positive effect because it reduces to a small
extent in time and amount FEN'S unprotected exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Its incremental impact, however, is of relatively minor importance.           The

                                                                         ANNEX I
                                                                    Page 6 of 12


significant problem which should have been recognized is the much more
substantial impact of the mismatch between the repayment terms of the external
loans obtained under this project and of the subloans made from these sources.
One question which arises is why this was not addressed during the project design
stage or during the early stage of implementation when the subsidiary loan
agreements were proposed for approval.     Another question is whether remedial
action might have been proposed for consideration had the mismatching problem
been recognized when the request for approval of the six month extension of the
subloan amortization period was made in 1988.

Alternatives to Reduce Mismatching which Deserved Consideration:          ti) at
A~praiSal.

15.   One step, permissible under Bank policy, which could have been considered
during the project design stage to minimize the mismatching problem was an
extension of the grace period on the "An loan from four to five years in exchange
for a reduction of the repayment period from 13 to 11 years. In attached Table
B, the schedule for repayment by FEN of the "A" and "B" loans which would have
been applicable if this change had been made is compared with the repayments on
the subloans made to FEN by the power companiee shown on two bases: as originally
scheduled based on a 13 year term, including a four year grace period (Heading
A), and assuming that the term had been set at 15 years, including a four year
grace period (Beading B).      This second basis shows the subloan repayment
requirements which would have been applicable under the maximum subloan terms
permitted under the Bank Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a).    These alternatives
should be compared to the repayment schedules actually agreed and adopted (Table
A, Beading A) to illustrate the specific comparisons that might have been made
if these choices had been analyzed during appraisal.

16.   Under the first basis of comparison (Heading A of each table), the subloan
repayment requirements are identical and are those actually adopted and
originally scheduled. This comparison indicates that the one year extension of
the grace period on the "A" loan in exchange for a two year reduction in its
repayment period, when blended with the shorter repayment terms of the "B" loans
which were as liberal as could be arranged, would have provided a significantly
better match for the subloan repayment terms actually adopted. Both the negative
and positive variances would have been substantially less.           The maximum
cumulative negative position would have been USSS1.6 million in 1992 compared to
USS57.1 million in 1991.   The maximum cumulative positive position would have
been USS36.3 million compared to USS43.4 million in 1997, and the period during
which FEN'S  debt service requirements on the "A" loan would continue after
complete repayment of the subloans would have been reduced by one year. As a
result, FEN'S need to borrow locally to make up for the negative differences, and
the amount and extent of its unprotected exposure to foreign exchange risk after
the cumulative position becomes positive would have been reduced.

17.   The results are mixed for the second basis of comparison, which assumes
both that the "A"  loan would be repaid w e r a shorter period, a 15 year term
including a five year grace period, and that the subloans would be repaid over
a longer period, a 15 year term, including a four year grace period (Heading B

                                                                         LBELz
                                                                     Page 7 of 12


of Table B), instead of the terms actually agreed for both the "A" loan and the
subloans (Heading A of Table A).    On this basis, the negative variances would
have been much more substantial. The cumulative negative peak of USS83.9 million
in 1992 would have been USS26.8 million more than under the repayment terms
actually adopted and the negative position would have extended over ten rather
than seven yeare. On the other hand, the annual repayment requirements for the
power companies would have been very substantially reduced and better adapted to
their debt service capacity.     Also, PEN'S   unprotected exposure to foreign
exchange risk would have been minimal.

18.   There is no indication in the project record that any consideration was
ever given to the alternative that the Bank loan might have a 16 year term,
including a five year grace period, rather than a 17 year term including a four
year grace period. Apparently, this basic step in the analysis which should have
been carried out during appraisal was omitted. This oversight may have occurred
because the Bank personnel concerned with this project, +includingmanagement,
mistakenly assumed there would be no significant mismatch between PEN'S repayment
requirements on its borrowings for the project and the repayments it would
receive from the power companies on the subloans made in relending those
borrowings.  This conclusion is reinforced by the categorical statements made,
both in the Staff Appraisal Report (para 4.09) and the President's Report (para
60), that the onlending terms would be such that the full foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the power companies.     Had this matter been analyzed as it
readily could and should have during appraisal, the problem would have been
identified. In that event, it is likely that the Bank would have propored a one
year extension of the grace period for the "A" loan in exchange for an equivalent
reduction in its term in order to mitigate the problem.    Whether the Colombian
authorities, in particular the Government, would have accepted such a proposal,
is less certain, but given the resultant advantages noted in para 15 for reducing
both the negative variances which would have to be financed and the extent of
PEN'S exposure to foreign exchange risk, it seems likely that they would have.

19.    There is more uncertainty about the conclusions that would have been
reached had the choice between a 13 and 15 year term for the subloane been
analyzed during appraisal (para 17).     Since it was agreed that the maximum
subloan term would be 15 years, this was a possible, and perhaps the likely,
choice. To recommend this, however, the Bank would have had to be confident that
a much higher and prolonged negative funds flow from the project's financing and
refinancing arrangements could be managed by FEN. At the time, PEN was a newly
formed institution whose ability to raise funds from the domestic capital market
had only been briefly tested under very favorable conditions (Staff Appraisal
Report, para 2.13). Nevertheless, projections were made that the total resources
which PEN could mobilize fromlocal investors would increase fromthe equivalent
of US$220 million in 1984 to USS528 million in 1987, without crowding-out effects
(Staff Appraisal Report, paras 2.17 and 3.24-3.27     and Annex 5.40).   In this
context, and considering the advantages which the power companies and FEN would
derive from a 15 year subloan term, it seeme likely that the Bank would have
recommended it.   On the other hand, FEN apparently preferred the 13 year term.
Presumably this was because after analyzing the choice FEN recognized that it
would have a substantially smaller negative funds flow to finance and it attached

                                                                         4HwU
                                                                    Page 8 of 12


more importance to this than to the consequent higher exposure to foreign
exchange risk. Under the circwnstances, the only conclusion one can confidently
reach on the choice between a 13 and a 15 year subloan term is that the Bank
missed an opportunity to influence a significant decision concerning project
design by failing to analyze this choice during appraisal.

m~ortunitiesafter ADDraisal to Consider Alternatives to Reduce Mismatching.

20.   There were two subsequent occasions when the mismatching problem should
have been recognized and addressed: first, when the draft subsidiary loan
agreements were proposed for Bank approval in 1984 following loan signing on June
27, 1984; and second when the Bank was considering whether to apprcwe the rix
month extension of the eubloan amortization period after receipt in late July
1988 of the notification from FEN that this had been done. To illustrate choicer
that might have been analyzed on these occaeione, Table C compares the repaymentr
by FEN on the "A" and "B" loans as actually agreed with the repapmentu FEN would
have received on the subloans if their term were 15 years (Heading A) and if the
15 year tern were also adjusted for the six month extension of the amortization
period (Heading B).

21.   The comparison between the 15 year subloan term (Heading A of Table C) and
13 year eubloan term (Heading A of Table A) is pertinent to the analysis which
should have been made on the first occasion. The results would have been similar
to those discussed in para 17 but not as good: the cumulative negative peak would
have been higher (USS88.7 million, or USS31.6      million more than under the
arrangements actually adopted); there would have been comparable advantage6 to
the power companies because of lower annual debt repayment obligationel and FEN9#
exposure to foreign exchange risk would have been substantially reduced but not
virtually eliminated.    As an additional part of its analysir on the firet
occasion, when the focus of its review was on the subsidiary loan agreements, the
Bank should also have noted and become concerned about the significant mirmatch
between the repayment terms of the "An and "B" loans and of the subloans. If it
had, it would probably also have considered the possibility that it would still
be timely to propose to amend the repayment terms of the "A' loan to extend the
grace period in exchange for a reduction of the repayment period as discuused in
paras 15-17. Thus, the conclusions stated in paras 18 and 19 are also applicable
as of this early stage of project implementation (para 5.1).   The omission of an
analysis of these choices as part of the Bank's review of the subsidiary loan
agreements may be attributed to the failure to assign a financial analyst to
supervision of the project at that time.

22.  The second occasion following appraisal which ehould have called the Bank9r
attention to the mismatching problem was FEN's decision to extend the subloan
amortization period by six months.     FEN'S letter informing the Bank of thir
extension was received on July 27, 1988, five weeks prior to the date, September
1, 1988, vhen the first semiannual amortization repayment of the "An loan wau
due. It is unrealistic to expect that, within that five week period, the Bank9e
review of FEN'S decision would have been carried out so well and so expeditiouuly
that the potential benefits from amending the Bank loan agreement to extend the
grace period by one year in exchange for a two year reduction in the amortization

                                                                         ANNEX I
                                                                    Page 9 of 12


period would have been identified and that the agreement of all concerned needed
to effectuate that amendment would have been obtained.

23.   On the second occasion, however, it would have been both timely for the
Bank to consider a longer extension of the subloan amortization period and
reasonable to expect that it would examine the merits of such a step on its own
initiative. As previously indicated in paras 10 and 11, the Bank's analysis of
the effects of the six month extension of the subloan amortization period should
have included a comparison such as in Table A between FEN'S schedule for repaying
the "A" and "B" loans and the subloan repayment schedule as originally specified
and as modified for the six month extension.    Moreover, the decision to extend
the subloan amortization period was taken about six weeks after the effectiveness
of the Power Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 2889-CO).    The Bank was no doubt
aware of the financial difficulties then being experienced by the power companies
in meeting their debt service requirements, and it must have assumed that this
was the unstated reason for the extension.    In those circumstances, one could
reasonably expect that the Bank, as part of its review, would have considered
whether a lengthened repayment schedule for the subloans would be advisable.
Thus, the analysis should also have included a comparison of subloan repayment
schedules based on 15 and 13 year subloan terms, each extended sixmonths, with
FEN'S repayment obligations on the "A" and "B" loans, like that presented.in
Heading B of Table C and Heading B of Table A, respectively.

24.  As could be expected, a comparison of extended 15 and 13 year subloan terms
would have shown that the negative funds flow associated with the longer subloan
term would be substantially higher and more prolonged than with the shorter term.
As illustrated in Tables C and A, the cumulative negative peak would be USS103.2
million in 1992, or US$28,4 million more than USS74.8 million in 1991, and the
cumulative negative differences would be sustained for 11 rather than eight
years.  By 1988, however, FEN'S ability to raise large sums from the domestic
capital market was well established. Also, as discussed in paras 7 and 12, such
borrowings to finance the negative variances would not adversely affect FEN's
profits. On the other hand, the comparison would have shown that an extended 15
year term would lessen the debt service burden on the power companies and FEN'S
exposure to foreign exchange risk.    It appears, on balance, that there was a
compelling case to recommend substitution of an extended 15 year term for the
extended 13 year term which would have become apparent if the issues raised by
FENss decision to extend the subloan amortization period had been appropriately
analyzed.

25.  As described above, there have been significant adverse consequences as a
result of the failure to recognize, and adopt measures to minimize, the mismatch
between FENss repayment terms on the "A" and "Bn loans and the repayment terms
to FEN on the subloans made from those sources.    Of much greater significance,
however, is the mismatch of the short repayment terms of the loan capital made
available to the power companies from both foreign and domestic sources in
comparison to the long construction periods and useful earning lives of the
assets financed by these loans. This issue and steps FEN might take to provide
suitable term transformation to the power companies to resolve thie problem are
discussed in paras (5.77-5.79) and Annex XI. Such measures would also eliminate
the mismatching problems discussed in this Annex for the period subsequent to
their adoption.

                                                                                                                    ANNEX I
                                                                                                           Page 10 of 12


                        TABU A. REPAYMENTSBY PENON PRoJEcX'LOANS ('A' AND 'B' LOANS)
               AS AGREED COMPARED TO REPAYKENISTO FEN ON SUBLOANSAS ORIGINAUY SCHEDULED
                         AND AS MODIFIEDFOR SIXMONTH EXTENSIONOF SUBLOANREPAYMENT
                                                    (us3 Miuioor Scc note)
                                                                  -


                                                                                              B. AJ Modified for 6 M o d
                                                                                                 Externion of Subloan




          AU US$ amountsam bucd on rtrtcdUSS equivdodvalueru o f b timothe louu and arblornr were -do.         n e y do
mot mflcct the impactof aubaequenichangesin oxclungcrater applicable totbo Wodd Bank 'A' loan of USSl7Omillion a d tho
Japanow Yon deaominatod 'B' b.Such oxctuago nto clunga, of cauno, would not bo applicable to tht UsS175 million
demminacod'B' lorn. Specifically, for tho World Bank 'Ag lorn, tho amountslhown do pql rrfloct chrngeain USS equiv.lenl
valuer due to tho Wodd B.nlr*acwr~ocypooling ayatcm affecwFEN'# repaymentsto tho World Bank and tho rcpaymcntaby Lo
povcr canprniea of the poaion of r u b h applicrbh ta tho relendii of tbora Iluda. P a tho Japuica Yon dcaomimted
cofinrachg.tho repaplentr by PENare b a d onthe oxchangonto of Y220per US$ (or a total equivalentvalueof USSZSmillion)
applicablearhontholoanw u aged; md therepaymentsby thopowwcomp.nieauo bued ontho US$ cquivrlontvduc therwf when
therubloamworodnwnd m . AJ a r e d of thia laltor ictor, tho mdUS$ cquivllontv.luoof tho ~ b l o u ir r h mar USS370.52
                                                                                                   u
million,&thanUSS369.5 millionwhichothvrvire would h v eboon applicrbkdowing Tor the totalof USSOJ million u ~ fw     d
tho ~ - 0fee payablcto tho World Bank and for consulting u m c a to
               d                                                     FEN.

                                                                                                ANNEX I
                                                                                           Page 11 of 12


                               TABLEB. REPA-         BY FEN ON P R V LOANS (.A9 AND 'B' LOANS)
                                             ASSUMINOMODIFIEDSCHEDULEFOR 'Ag LOAN
                                  (15 M      W OF 17YEARTERM, INCLUDINaFIVEINSI7WDOFFOUR
                               YEAR OBACB PERIOD) COMPARED TO REPAYWWIS TO FEN ON SUBLOANS
                                             AS ORIQINALLYSCHEDULEDAND ASSUMINO
                                         MODIFIEDSCHRDUL.8(15 IN-     OF 13 YEAR TERM,
                                                INCLUDINO FOUR YEAR ORACE PERIOD)
                                                       (USMilliom Seenote)
                                                                 -




wn3:

Ibe lloto for Table A rlm rpplierto thu Uble.

                                                                                        ANNEX I
                                                                                  Page 12 of 12


                   TABLEC. REPAYMENTSBY FEN ON PRO=            MANS ('A' AND 'B' LOANS)
                         AS AGREED COMPAREDTO WAYMENIS TO FEN ON SUBLOANS
                         ASSUMING MODIFLEDSCHEDULE(15 INSTBADOF 13 YEAR TERM,
                                        INCLUDINGFOURYEAIL GRACEPERIOD)
                                 AND MODIFIED SCHEDULE-ED          SIX MONTHS
                                               (Uss WLiom See note)
                                                         -




m:

 Tbe W forTable A dm applierto thir table.

                                                                   Page 1 of 18




                                    COLOHBIA
                      POWER DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
                                 (LOAN 2401-C01




Overview

1.   Colombian power companies have a genuine need for extended debt repayment
terme eo that their debt eervice requiremente would be realietically related
to their earning power (parae 5.62-5.64).  To accomplieh thie, it ie prima
facie reaeonable to believe that eignificantly longer and more eyetematic term
tranefonnation than now available ie feaeible and could be provided by FEN
without undue riek, both with respect to domeetic funds raieed through
Colombia's capital markets and foreign borrowinge.  Thie would also be
coneietent with FEN'e expanded role, under Lawe 25 and 51 of 1990, to
refinance debt eervice obligation8 in order to rationalize the functioning of
the energy sector (parae 5.56-5.61).   The conclueions stated herein, however,
ehould be regarded ae tentative and eubject to confirmation or modification
after a thorough etudy, more complete and detailed than the limited analyeie
made for the purpoee of thie report. Moreover, theee conclusione ehould not
be regarded ae a panacea but ae a complement to the many other eeeential

                                                                 ANNEX I1
                                                                  Page 2 of 18



remedies needed to correct deficiencies in the management, operations and
pricing policies of Colombia's power utilities and power sector.  Indeed,
unless these deficiencies are corrected, the proposals for extended term
transformation discussed herein would not be feasible.

ColS Denominated Loans

2.   Domestic Capital Markets.   The domestic markets from which FEN raises
Col$ resources have strengthened and matured substantially since 1982 when the
initial studies for this project were made.  One illustration of this is that,
since 1989, there has been a free market based measure of average short term
inter~?trates (DTF), paid by banks and other financial institutions on
certificates of deposit, which FEN has used as a basis for setting variable
interest rates on its four year borrowings (para 5.21).  The amount of funds
raised from the domestic markets by all issuers participating in them has also
grown significantly.  Although the orientation of these markets remains
primarily short-term, apparently much of the savings attracted by the ample
real interest rates payable is rolled over on maturity.  Over the seven year
period from the end of 1983 to the end of 1990, FEN'S outstanding borrowings
from the domestic markets have increased at an average annual rate of about
40% in nominal terms and 14% in real terms.  Thus, it appears that FEN can
fairly confidently expect that the short and medium term funds raised by it in
the domestic capital markets will remain available to it indefinitely as long
as it pays competitive interest rates for them, and that FEN can reasonably
consider these funds as a solid foundation for prwiding long term loans to
the power companies.

3.   Interest Rate Risk.  FEN would be protected from interest rate risk by
specifying that the interest rate charged by it on long term Col$ denominated
loans would be variable and would be tied to its average interest cost for
funds borrowed from the domestic capital markets plus a specified margin
(commonly called a "spread") deemed adequate to cover its operating expenses,
taxes, provisions for losses, and a reasonable profit.  Unfortunately, this
practice was not adopted by FEN and, as pointed out in para 5.46, its profits
have not always been adequate.  In the future, a reasonable profit should be
understood to be an amount which, together with appropriate profits from other
activities, would result in total annual net earnings after taxes at least
sufficient, when capitalized as part of retained earnings, to preserve the
real value of FEN'S stockholders' equity.  The adequacy of spreads and FEN'S
profit objective are subjects discussed in more detail in paras 31-37.

4.   Partial Caoitalization of Interest.   Under prevailing inflationary
conditions in Colombia, a preponderant part of high nominal interest rates
represents compensation to maintain the real value of the loan principal.
When interest is paid on this basis, most of the payment represents real
repayment of principal; this imposes a heavy burden on the borrower and
reduces the average real maturity of the credit.  The proposed new term
transformation arrangements should relieve borrowers from this burden by
capitalizing an appropriate part of the nominal interest payment.  Of three
methods for partially capitalizing interest analyzed during appraisal, the one
identified as preferable specifies the rate of interest in advance (e.g. 8%),
with the rest to be capitalized as part of the loan amount and amortized as

                                                                  ANNEX 11
                                                                  Page 3 of 18



part of the scheduled loan repayments. Other methods which might be used
would predetermine on a percentage basis either the amount to be capitalized
and amortized, with the rest paid as interest, or vice versa.  The first
method was deemed preferable because by maintaining the amount of interest
constant it facilitated financial planning and reduced administrative costs
(SAR No. 4771-C0, Annex 2.1).

5.   Extended Repayment Terms.   Specific determination of how far to extend
the repayment terms of FEN'S loans to power companies needs further study.
The following discussion presents criteria and general considerations
pertinent in this respect.

6.   Normally, grace periods during which no loan amortization is required
are commensurate with the period needed to construct and place into operation
the assets financed by the loan.  FEN should adopt this standard for setting
the grace period on its domestic loans for investment projects.  To illustrate
what this would mean in contrast to its present practice of a limited one year
grace period, the following norms are cited.  For distribution and
transmission investments, a one year grace period would generally be adequate,
although for a multi-year program of such investments and for some high
voltage transmission projects, a longer period may be justified.  Longer
construction periods are needed for generation projects.  Experience indicates
that these can be estimated more reliably for thermal generation than for
hydro electric projects.  For the former, a grace period of about three years
usually would be appropriate; for the latter, a grace period of at least five
years generally would be required and longer periods may be needed depending
on the size and complexity of the particular project.

7.   FEN should have, or as necessary retain, the engineering expertise to
review and be satisfied with borrower estimates of construction periods.
Borrowers should understand that they will be held accountable for their
mistakes in underestimating construction periods.  FEN should adopt a
restrictive policy on extending grace periods and providing additional finance
when projects are delayed or have cost overruns - e.g. limiting relief to
situations (i) which were beyond the control of the borrower and not
reasonably foreseeable, and (ii) where the borrower was efficiently managed
and operated and could not meet the costs from internally generated funds.  If
these conditions are not met and financial assistance is necessary, other
conditions should be imposed, such as changes in management and adoption and
implementation of measures to correct deficiencies and improve performance.

8.   In addition to the length of the grace period, f
durinnaspartoftheloanamountisanotherimportant
financial policy issue. As an element of prudent policy, lenders usually
require cash payment of interest during the grace period except in cases where
it would be unreasonable to expect the borrower to be able to generate the
required funds for this payment from operations.  Typical exceptions would be
a construction loan to a newly established company which has not yet begun
operations, or a loan to an operating company to finance a very large addition
to capacity which has a long construction period.  If FEN has not already
adopted such a policy, it would be advisable to do so as part of the expansion
of its term transformation role.  It should be noted that the policy followed

                                                                  Page 4 of 18




in determining whether to capitalize interest during the grace period as part
of the loan amount is not dependent upon the accounting treatment of interest
during construction, and vice versa.  In accordance with generally accepted
accounting practice in Colombia as well as elsewhere, interest costs on funds
borrowed to finance plant additions, incurred during the construction or
implementation period, are capitalized as part of fixed assets.   Interest
costs applicable to works for which the construction or implementation period
is one year or less, however, may be charged to operations.   This accounting
practice is applicable irrespective of the source of funds to pay the interest
costs.

9.   Standard repayment periods, exclusive of grace periods, should be
established by FEN.  These should vary depending on the type of investments
financed and allow longer repayment periods for loans financing assets with
longer useful lives.  The standards should be based on studies of funds
generation which Colombian power companies would have available for debt
service assuming that they were efficiently managed and had prudent capital
structures (e.g. debtlequity ratios no higher than 60140 after allowing for
revaluation of assets).  The studies should assume that FEN would renegotiate
domestic currency loans now outstanding so that the proposed standard
repayment periods would henceforth apply to them as well as future loans.
They should also allow for extensions in the repayment periods of foreign
debts which would result from refinancing arrangements discussed in paras 15-
30.  The objective should be to have prudent annual debt service coverages,
say at least 1.5.

10.  Debt repayment periods, exclusive of grace periods, normally would be
materially less than the useful life of the asset financed, typically not more
than 75-80%, and not less than 50-60%, of the life.   To illustrate, repayment
periods might vary from 12 to 15 years for loans financing distribution and
sub-transmission assets with lives of about 20 years; 15 to 20 years for
thermal generation and high voltage transmission assets with lives of 25 to 30
years, and 20 to 30 years for hydroelectric assets with lives of 40 or more
years.  The feasibility of shorter repayment periods at the low end of the
range would generally depend upon the borrower having a relatively high equity
component in total capitalization.

11.   Although maturity ~remiaare customarily part of the interest rate
structure, the reasons for them are greatly diminished in cases where variable
lending rates are linked to short term borrowing rates expected to be adequate
to offset inflation risks.  Nevertheless, there is a risk that unexpected
adverse changes in conditions may occur, and this risk increases the longer
the repayment term.  Thus, FEN may wish to consider including modest maturity
premia in its interest rate structure by charging somewhat higher spreads on
loans with longer maturities.  This might also be associated with offering an
incentive to more credit worthy borrowers to accept shorter repayment periods.
Under such an arrangement, there might be a standard range of spreads which
are successively higher as the term of 'the loan increases, with the lower end
of the range applicable to borrowers who choose and qualify for shorter
repayment periods - e.g. 12 instead of 15 years for a transmission and
distribution loan.

                                                                   ANNEX I1
                                                                   Page 5 of 18




12.   Eligibility and other Policy Considerations.   For a power company to be
eligible for FEN'S financial support, whether for Col$ or foreign currency
denominated loans, FEN should be satisfied that it is efficiently operated and
managed and is credit worthy, or that it has adopted and is satisfactorily
implementing a program which will result in its becoming so within a few
years.  One test of credit worthiness would be the prudence of the capital
structure and the adequacy of the debt service coverage ratio (see para 9).

13.   In order to limit FEN'S term transformation risk, consideration should
be given to adoption of a policy that requires the power companies, to the
extent feasible, to give priority to use of net internally generated funds,
after payment of debt service, for financing components of their investment
programs with the longest useful lives and to limit their borrowings from FEN
for their investment program to those elements with the shortest useful lives.
Such a policy, however, will only reduce the risk, since it is likely that
some FEN financing will be required for those elements of a power copmpany's
investment program with the longest useful lives.  This qualification is
particularly relevant to a program that includes hydroelectric generation.

14.  There are other policy implications of an expanded term transformation
role for FEN relevant to whether its domestic borrowings would "crowd outw
other borrowers and to maintenance of an adequate liquidity buffer and
debtlequity ratio.   These are discussed, beginning at para 38, after
considering FEN'S term transformation role for foreign borrowings.

Foreian Currency Denominated Loans

15.   The repayment terms of foreign borrowings by the power companies are
mismatched in relation to their earning power.  This applies both to direct
foreign borrowings by the power companies and to foreign currency denominated
loans extended through FEN.  As a result, many power companies have had
insufficient funds available to meet all their obligations, including debt
service, and it has been necessary to resort to various ad hoc solutions,
including the CADEX program instituted by FEN in 1990, to provide short or
medium term financing to them so that repaymnents due on foreign loans could
be made.  These solutions have provided only partial and temporary relief.  A
more systematic and transparent way to establish appropriate debt repayment
obligations reasonably related to the earning power of the power companies is
needed so that they would be subject to effective and realistically achievable
financial discipline.   (See paras 5.62 -5.64.)  To accomplish this, a
potential solution which should be explored would be for FEN to establish and
manage a pool of foreign resources (hereafter referred to as the "foreign
facility") which would be used and made available for this purpose to all
interested and qualified power companies, as described below.

16.   Fundinn Sources.    Establishment of the foreign facility would depend on
obtaining the support of foreign lenders.  The most likely source would be
foreign connnercial banks. The type of financing available for the facility
probably would be limited to lines of credit which could be drawn upon for
stated periods of time and which could be renewed, and medium term credits
which would only be partially amortized with the balance due at maturity
subject to refinancing on similar terms if the parties so agreed.   The

                                                                 ANNEX I1
                                                                 Page 6 of 18




facility should be presented to potential lenders as an important element of
an effort to rationalize and improve the performance of Colombian power
companies, which are to be held accountable for meeting debt service
requirements reasonably related to their earning power.  Thus, the
presentation should emphasize that (i) the facility's objective is to
refinance debt service due on outstanding and future foreign loans so that
grace and repayment periods are reasonably related, respectively, to the
construction or implementation period, and useful life of the assets financed;
(ii) its availability is limited to qualified companies (para 12); and (iii)
the interest rate and foreign exchange risks assumed by FEN would be passed on
to the power companies benefiting from the facility.  On this basis, lending
probably would be forthcoming for the facility because it would be viewed as
financially sound.  Government support for this approach to foreign lenders,
of course, would also be necessary; and the foreign lenders no doubt will
expect that their loans to FEN for this facility would be guaranteed by the
Government.  In time, when the power companies have demonstrated that they
have improved their efficiency and that their financial performance is sound,
it may be possible to obtain funding for the foreign facility from foreign
lenders without a government guarantee.

17.   Whether short and medium term borrowings from foreign commercial banks
will prove to be a solid foundation for FEN to provide long term loans to the
power companies will depend on the continuous availability of such borrowings
over many years.  In turn this will depend on how well the power companies
perform in meeting their debt service obligations on the extended terms made
available by FEN and whether Colombia continues to be a credit worthy country.
It will also depend on how well the world economy performs, since the
availability of credit from foreign commercial banks would be adversely
affected by poor performance of their home country economies.

18.   There are clearly risks to FEN in proceeding with term transformation on
the basis suggested.  It is reasonable to conclude, however, that taking these
risks is worthwhile, considering the advantages to be gained from establishing
the foreign facility. To a limited extent, it should be possible to mitigate
the risks by maintaining adequate liquidity and equity buffers (paras 42-46).

19.   It may also be possible for FEN to raise funds domestically to finance
the foreign facility through US$ (or other foreign currency) denominated
borrowings.  If this were authorized by the Government and the central bank,
such borrowings might well prove to be another significant funding source for
the facility. Most likely, such borrowings would have to be short term
initially, with some scope for extending maturities later, and the interest
rate would have to be related to dependable indices such as LIBOR or the US
prime rate.  As in the case of Col$ borrowings, once such a market were
established in Colombia, the prospect of maintaining and gradually increasing
outstanding balances from year to year should be good.  At present, the
foreign exchange market in Colombia has been liberalized and there is a very
substantial supply of US$ available (para 5.61).  If it were deemed advisable
to do so, US$ (or other foreign currency) denominated borrowings could be
limited to lenders who have foreign exchange to pay for the notes issued by
FEN and to whom payments of interest and principal would be in foreign

                                                                  A-NNE
                                                                       Page 7 of 18



exchange. Alternatively, they might simply be foreign currency denominated
loans paid for in ColS.

20.   Implementation Arrannements.   FEN would agree with interested and
qualified power companies to (i) assume their obligations under foreign loans
in exchange for their agreement to repay these obligations to FEN on an
extended basis, and (ii) to extend the repayment terms of FEN'S foreign
currency denominated loans to them (e.g. the subloans under this project or
those using other external credit resources such as the Concorde and
Challenger Loans).  Extended grace and repayment periods would be established
in accordance with standards and policies adopted after further study, as
suggested in paras 5-10.  The interest and amortization payment dates, with
respect to month and day (e.g. June 15 and December 15) and frequency (e.g.
semiannually), would remain the same under the new loan owed by a power
company to FEN as under the original foreign loan assumed or extended by FEN.

21.   The agreements would specify that the new loan would have two distinct
components for determining its principal amount and the interest payments due
thereon: an "original" and a "foreign facility11component.  This distinction
and the other arrangements described herein are necessary so that the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks that FEN assumes or incurs in order to
provide extended term financing to the power companies will be appropriately
matched with those it charges to the power companies for this financing.

22.   The basis for denominatinn principal amounts in terms of foreign
currencies payable that was prescribed for the original loan (i.e. the assumed
loan or the previously agreed foreign currency denominated subloan that FEN is
extending) would continue to apply with respect to the original component of
the new loan; the comparable basis that would be applicable to the foreign
facility component would be stipulated in relation to the resources used to
finance that facility (see paras 26-28).  Similarly, the interest rate
arrangements agreed for the original loan, plus a spread which FEN would
charge on assumed loans (see para 30). would be the basis for determining the
amount of interest payable on the original component of the principal; and
those specified for the foreign facility (see para 29) would be the basis for
determining interest payable on the foreign facility component. Repavments of
principal under the new loan would depend on the grace and repayment periods
agreed in each case.  Subsequent to the grace period, when there would be no
repayments, level repayments would be due on each repayment date.      They would
be level in the sense that they would represent an equal proportionate amount
of the total outstanding principal of the loan (i.e. the sum of the original
and foreign facility components) over the remainder of the repayment period.
For example, if the new loan were to be repaid in 40 semi-annual installments,
the initial repayment would be determined by dividing the outstanding total
principal of the loan as valued on the repayment date by 40; the second
repayment by dividing by 39; and so on.  Repayments would be applied
proportionately to the original and foreign facility components of the new
loan's principal amount.

23.  The foreinn facility component of the new loan would represent two
elements.  First, to the extent that repayments under the new loan were less
than those that were required under the original loan, that difference would

                                                                  ANNEX IT
                                                                  Page 8 of 18




become part of the principal owed under the new loan represented by the
foreign facility component.  Second, any interest payments that would be
capitalized as part of the loan amount only because of the provisions of the
new loan would become part of the foreign facility component.

24.   An illustration of the ~roposedarrangements may be useful.   Initially,
the original component would constitute 100% of the principal amount of the
new loan.  Thus, upon effectiveness of FEN9s assumption of a foreign loan owed
by a power company, FEN'S loan portfolio would include a new loan with a
principal amount identical to that of the assumed loan now part of its
financial obligations.  Similarly, upon effectiveness of an agreement for PEN
to extend the repayment terms of a foreign currency denominated loan, a new
loan would become part of its loan portfolio and it would have a principal
amount identical to that of loan it replaces.  In each case, the entire amount
of the new loan, upon effectiveness, would be recorded as the original
component.

25.   As the new loans are repaid by the power companies at a slower pace.than
the original loans FEN has assumed or extended, FEN will need other resources
to meet the principal repayments on the assumed loans and on the borrowings it
made to finance the subloans which had been extended.  This is also true of
any interest payments which under the original loans would have been paid in
cash but are to be capitalized under the new arrangements.  As FEN utilizes
other resources for these purposes, commensurate changes would be made in the
records it maintains for its loan portfolio to record the original and foreign
facility components of the new loans.  This would be accomplished as the
occasion requires either by:

     transfers from the original to the foreign facility component recorded -

          in the same amount as, and simultaneously with recording, the
          repayments made by FEN on an assumed loan, and

          in the amount that would have been required to be repaid to FEN on
          the due dates as prescribed under the original terms of a foreign
          currency denominated subloan by FEN to a power company, had the
          repayment terms not been extended; or

     recording interest payments capitalized as part of the loan amounts
     under the original component if the original loan arrangements provided
     for such capitalization, and under the foreign facility component if the
     capitalization occurs pursuant to the new extended loan arrangements.

As previously indicated, as loan repayments required under the new loan
arrangements are made, the amount thereof will be allocated proportionately to
reduce the original and foreign facility components of the pertinent loan.

26.   Foreign Facility Currency Pool.   It has been assumed in this discussion
that the foreign facility would be funded by foreign borrowings.  In order to
distribute the impact of foreign exchange and interest rate changes on these
borrowings fairly among all the beneficiaries of the foreign facility, it is
recommended that these borrowings be maintained in a separate foreign facility

                                                                  ANNEX Ix
                                                                  Page 9 of 18



currency pool, the performance of which would serve as the basis for achieving
this objective.  Broadly stated, there are two choices for managing the
foreign borrowings.  The simplest would be for all the borrowings to be
denominated in a single currency, say the US$, in which case the only relevant
exchange rate would be that of the single currency chosen.  The second
solution would be for FEN to establish a foreign facility currency pool
involving a number of foreign currencies and to allocate the foreign exchange
risk in the same way as under the World Bank's currency pool so that the
impact of exchange rate changes on all loan balances funded by the pool is
identical.  In either case, the average interest cost of the foreign
borrowings made to fund the foreign facility would also serve as the basis to
which a spread would be added to determine the variable lending rate charged
on the foreign facility loans.

27.   Under the second solution, it would be necessary to decide what limits
if any should be followed with respect to the number and composition of
foreign currencies to be involved.  The World Bank's experience with its
currency pool led it to adopt a targeted currency composition because this
would simplify management of foreign exchange risks by its borrowers including
facilitating hedging (see para 8.14).  It is questionable whether FEN would be
able to manage a pool of foreign borrowings so that it would have a dependable
targeted currency composition.  To accomplish this, it would be necessary for
FEN to have available adequate sources of several different foreign currencies
which could be drawn down and maintained in fixed proportions.  Even if this
proved to be possible, there would also be a question whether it would be
advantageous, or deemed to be so by the power companies, to have a mix of
foreign currency financing sources, with different foreign exchange and
interest rate risks, rather than rely on a single foreign currency financing
source such as borrowings denominated in US$.

28.   There are several reasons for deciding to rely solely on US$ denominated
financing for the foreign facility currency pool, without prejudice to the
right to change that decision in the future if a changed course becomes
advisable.  Because ex ante determinations of foreign exchange and interest
rate risks are very speculative, it is unlikely that there would be a sound
basis for concluding that an alternative course would be advantageous.  There
is a very broad, large and highly competitive international market in which to
obtain US$ denominated financing at variable interest rates tied to reliable
indices such as LIBOR or the prime rate of major US banks.  Use of other
currency denominated financing would not be precluded if such financing could
be swapped for a US$ denominated loan at a lower interest cost than payable
for directly obtained US$ financing.  Finally, this is the administratively
simplest basis to use.

29.   Onlendinn Rates.   As indicated in para 26, variable lending rates for
the foreign facility component of extended foreign currency denominated loans
would be based on the average interest cost of the borrowings in the foreign
facility currency pool plus a stipulat'edspread.  The spread should be
adequate to cover costs and contribute appropriately to meet FEN'S reasonable
profit objective, as suggested in para 3 for Col$ denominated loans.  Instead
of a constant spread for all foreign currency denominated lending, spreads may

                                                                              ANNEX I1
                                                                            Page 10 of 18



be structured t o allow for modest maturity premia, as suggested i n para 11 for
Col$ loans.

30.        In addition, the interest payable on the original component of assumed
foreign currency denominated loans would be determined by adding an
appropriate spread t o the interest rate payable as agreed for the original
loan.        Although FEN did not serve as an intermediary i n the arrangements for
the original loan, its agreement t o assume responsibility t o repay that loan
under the original terms is a commitment of part of its borrowing authority
for which it is entitled t o some compensation.          The duration of the remaining
l i a b i l i t y under the original loan which FEN assumes w i l l be a pertinent factor
i n determining an appropriate spread, particularly i f FEN structures spreads
t o allow for maturity premia.         Thus, i n those instances where the remaining
duration is comparatively short, FEN may conclude that a relatively small
spread compared t o its average spread on foreign currency denominated loans
would be adequate compensation for assuming liability for such loans as part
of its extended term transformation efforts.          No additional spread would be
needed for the original component of foreign currency denominated loans
extended by FEN.          The spread provided under the arrangements agreed when such
loans were originally made should be adequate t o compensate FEN for its role
as intermediary.

General Considerations

31.        Adeauacv of Spreads.     A review of the adequacy of FEN'S present
practices for establishing spreads and onlending rates is one of the matters
dealt with herein requiring further study          .  The purpose of t h i s review would
be t o determine what changes may be needed and would be feasible t o improve
FEN's overall level of profitability and the distribution thereof among its
various sources for generating profits.           Paras 3 and 11 (and para 29 by
reference thereto) contain brief statements of suggested principles applicable
i n these respects.        Additional comments pertinent t o the recommended review
follow under three sub-headings.

32.        a. Profit Objective.      Para 3 suggests that a reasonable profit
objective for FEN is an amount of annual net earnings after taxes a t least
sufficient, when capitalized as part of retained earnings, t o preserve the
real value of FEN'S stockholders' equity.           This is equivalent t o stating that
FEN'S nominal annual rate of return on its average equity for each year should
be a t least equal t o the average rate of inflation for the year and that a l l
of its earnings should be retained rather than distributed.             In actuality,
except for a very small amount of dividends paid in cash, it is FEN'S policy
t o retain a l l of its net earnings after taxes.        A s pointed out i n the main
text (paras 5.46 and 5.66 and Table 5.1)          ,however,   FEN's after tax rate of
return on average equity has been less than the rate of inflation i n each of
the years 1985-1990. As a result, the value of FEN's stockholders' equity has
depreciated i n real terms by about 11% over the period from the end of 1983 t o
the end of 1990.

33.        The proposed profit objective is quite modest, identical t o stating that
the real rate of return on equity should not be less than zero.             This may be
justified on the grounds that FEN functions basically as a service company

                                                                                      ANNEX 11
                                                                                     Page 11 of 18




that provides essential services and assistance t o a f f i l i a t e d Colombian power
companies        by arranging financing f o r them, and t o the Government by
monitoring the financial performance of the power companies and strengthening
power sector financial management.              A s such, it may be concluded t h a t FEN'S
financial performance would be satisfactory i f it provided the services a t no
p r o f i t and no l o s s i n r e a l terns, which is what would be required i n the USA
with respect t o dealings between a service company and a f f i l i a t e d u t i l i t i e s .
An alternative view would be t h a t FEN is not simply operating as a service
company but a l s o a s a financiera taking r i s k s i n extending c r e d i t t o the power
companies, and t h a t it should be compensated f o r t h i s r i s k by earning r a t e s of
return on equity approaching but not i n excess of those earned by privately
owned financieras i n Colombia.             Under the l a t t e r view, the zero r e a l r a t e of
return on equity would be a minimum p r o f i t objective, and a maximum r a t e of
return on equity t h a t was deemed reasonable would have t o be established a s
the maximum p r o f i t objective.         The increase i n c a p i t a l resulting from earning
and retaining a positive r e a l return on equity would be advantageous because
it would support an expanded lending program to the power companies in real
terms, without c a l l i n g on the Government t o fund increases i n FEN's equity
c a p i t a l base t o t h a t extent.    Clarification of FEN's p r o f i t objectives w i l l be
necessary as p a r t of the review of the adequacy of spreads.

3 4 .      b. Distribution of P r o f i t s among Revenue Sources.            FEN's two principal
revenue sources a r e peso and foreign currency loans.                   I f it were feasible, it
would be desirable f o r FEN t o earn approximately the same r a t e of p r o f i t on
a l l of its loans so t h a t each of its borrowers would contribute t o FEN'S
p r o f i t s proportionally t o its use of FEN'S lending f a c i l i t i e s .     As a p r a c t i c a l
matter, t h i s i d e a l distribution of p r o f i t s cannot be realized.         For example,
i f maturity premia a r e introduced i n t o the lending r a t e structure a s suggested
i n paras 11 and 29, the i d e a l would have t o be modified t o achieve uniform
p r o f i t margins on loans with comparable maturities.              More fundamentally, it
must be recognized t h a t both the amount of n e t p r o f i t produced by any given
amount of spread (e.8. 0.5%) and its percentage relationship t o equity w i l l
vary over time a s costs other than borrowing costs, the volume of lending
operations over which these costs may be distributed, the amount of income
earned on investments, the extent t o which equity c a p i t a l is u t i l i z e d f o r
lending purposes, and t h e amount of the equity base vary.                   Accordingly,
appropriate changes i n i n t e r e s t r a t e margins may be necessary from time t o
time t o achieve desired p r o f i t objectives.         This may be the reason f o r the
range of margins, from 0.5% t o 0.9% per annum over its i n t e r e s t cost f o r
borrowing foreign funds, t h a t FEN has used t o s e t its lending r a t e s f o r
foreign currency loans (PEN Annual Report f o r 1989, English version, page 2 0 ) .
Moreover, t o the extent t h a t FEN'S p r o f i t objective includes a positive r e a l
return on equity, the judgment a s t o t h e specific amount of return, o r range
of returns, deemed reasonable may vary from time t o time a s circumstances
change.        Thus, the objective of a uniform r a t e of p r o f i t on a l l loans can only
be applied prospectively and imperfectly when spreads over average borrowing
costs a r e periodically established as the basis f o r determining lending r a t e s
t o be charged f o r future loans.           I f an identical spread, o r a uniform scale of
spreads related t o loan maturity, is applicable f o r a l l loans, whether peso o r
foreign, t h a t is the most t h a t may be accomplished t o achieve the desired
p r o f i t objective while adhering t o the ideal distribution of p r o f i t s as
closely a s possible.           Similarly, other loan charges such as commitment fees

                                                                  ANNEX I1
                                                                 Page 12 of 18




should be applicable uniformly for all loans.  There should be an appropriate
justification for any departure from this approach; e.g. charging higher
spreads and thus earning higher profits for riskier loans.

35.   The initial step in carrying out the review of the adequacy of FEN'S
interest rate margins would be to determine the annual amount of profits
realized in past years from each of the peso and foreign currency loan
categories and compare this to the average annual amount of loans outstanding
in each category.  This would identify the extent of differences in average
profit rates for the two categories.  A separate component of this analysis
would be a comparison of the average gross spreads earned for each category
measur?d by the differences between direct operating income from, and expensee
for, interest and commissions, as a percentage of the average amount of loans
outstanding.  If the resulting differences in profit rates or spreads are
significant, the analysis should be extended to identify the principal factore
accounting for the differences.  A number of technical points affecting this
analysis are discussed below.

     (i) The average annual amount of loans outstanding in each category
     should preferably be calculated on the basis of month or quarter end
     balances to minimize distortions due to uneven changes in outstanding
     amounts during the course of the year.

     (ii) Income on Investments.  FEN also earns income on peso and foreign
     currency investments, which essentially represent holdings acquired om
     part of liquidity buffers maintained for each of the lending activitiee.
     To the extent that it is possible to determine that borrowings were the
     source of funds utilized to acquire these investments, the pertinent
     interest and commission costs of such borrowings should be subtracted
     from the income  (interest, commissions, amortized discounts and
     monetary correction) derived from the investments.  The resulting net
     income or loss should be attributed to the pertinent lending category
     and treated either as a source of income in addition to that derived
     from the spreads, or an additional item of expense, pertinent to the
     lending category.

     (iii) Peso loans mav be financed from equity capital as well as from
     borrowings.  This should be assumed to be the case whenever the amount
     of peso loans (factor A) is greater than the amount of peso borrowings
     considered to be the source of funding such loans (factor B).  In that
     event, the total interest and commission income from peso loans should
     be allocated to the two sources.  The portion of this total obtained by
     applying the ratio of factor B over factor A should be considered the
     direct income obtained from peso loans financed from peso borrowinge.
     This should be  compared with the interest and commission expenses
     attributable to the amount of borrowings utilized to finance peso loans
     to calculate the average gross spreads on peso loans.  The balance of
     the total direct income from peso loans should be treated as a source of
     income in addition to that derived from spreads.

     (iv) Foreinn Loans under Power Development Finance Prolect.  Foreign
     loans have been financed exclusively from foreign borrowings, and,

                                                             ANNEX 11
                                                            Page 13 of 18



except for interest spreads, there has been a precise sparmetry (or
nearly so) between the terms of the foreign borrowings and the loans
financed by them.  The one and only instance in which there has not been
such a symmetry occurred under this Power Development Finance Project.
In this case, as pointed out in the main text, there was a mismatching
between the repayment terms of the foreign borrowings and the subloans
financed by them, which was accentuated by FEN's decision in 1988 to
extend the subloan amortization period by six months (para 5.47).   For
the years beginning with 1988, the gross spreads on these subloans
should be calculated separately from that for other foreign loans.  This
separate calculation should include, as an element of direct income in
add.'tionto interest, the exchange rate adjustments applicable to these
subloans, including the amounts thereof credited both to direct
operating income and to stockholders' equity (see Annex I, paras. 8 and
9).  It should also include, as an element of direct expense in addition
to the interest costs on the foreign borrowings, the interest and
commission costs attributable to the peso borrowings incurred to meet
repayment obligations on the foreign loans in excess of the amounts
repaid under the subloans for as long as necessary until this deficiency
is made up (see Annex I, paras. 10-13 and Table A).

(v) Allocation of Expenses other than Borrowinn Costs.  To calculate the
amount of net profits attributable to peso and foreign loans, it will be
necessary to allocate the net expenses resulting from all other items of
income and expense, both operating and non-operating, other than
borrowing and investments.  Except for income taxes, it is suggested
that this allocation be made in proportion to the average amounts of
outstanding loans in each category.  Income taxes could be allocated in
proportion to the earnings before income taxes of each category,
excluding that portion of credits for exchange rate adjustments made
directly to stockholders' equity.

(vi) s
FEN'S expenses in 1989 include a special provision of Co1$752.3 million
for a deficit that had accumulated to the end of that year in a
fiduciary account which FEN had been managing since November 1984.  Of
this amount, losses had been incurred in the amount of Co1$286.1 million
for 1989, Co1$348.7 for 1988 and Col$117.5 million in prior years.  In
1990, FEN'S expenses include a provision of Col$119.5 million for that
year's loss in this account.  The resources administered through this
account were provided by the Social Security Institute (ISS) in exchange
for obligations (identical to those for Constant Value Social Security
Bonds) to repay them at a value related to inflation plus interest of
5.5% per year on the adjusted value.  The contract under which FEN
administered these resources required it to account for any lossea
resulting from financial and credit decisions which produced earnings
less than the cost of the resources.  The provision charging the
accumulated deficit in this account to FEN'e earnings for 1989 was made
at the direction of the Banking Superintendency.  FEN'S responsibility
to make up the losses sustained in this account was confirmed in Law 48
of December 25, 1990.  That law also provided for the termination as of
1991 of the fiduciary administration contract and the simultaneous

                                                                  AWNEX IT
                                                                 Page 14 of 18



     transfer to FEN of ownership of the assets previously administered
     thereunder, so that these assets and the corresponding liabilities will
    henceforth be reported in FEN'S financial statements.    In calculating
     annual profits from peso lending, the expense charged in each of the
     years 1988-1990 for the loss sustained on this account should be limited
     to the amount attributable to that year's  results.  For years prior to
     1988 if the information is readily available, the yearly loss (or gain
     if any) in this account should be included in the calculation, or the
     cumulative loss from inception to the end of 1987 charged to 1987.
     Beginning with 1991, the ISS funds should simply be considered as an
     additional source of domestic borrowings available to FEN for its peso
     linding activities; the uses made of these funds will no longer be
     separately identifiable and their costs ehould be treated as part of the
     costs of the pool of domestic borrowings.   The lessons learned from this
     experience should include FEN'S belated recognition, noted in its Annual
     Report for 1990 (English version, pages 16-17), that inadequate spreads
    were charged for relending the ISS resources and that better returns
     could be achieved from investing the surplus funds.   Additional
     information about this special fiduciary account is set forth in the
     addendum to this Annex.

36.  After completing the analysis of historical results, a comparable
analysis should be made for 1992 and at least one but preferably several
subsequent years based on forecasts of FEN'S financial performance.   The
object should be to determine a schedule of spreads that is judged to be
feasible to implement and reasonably likely to produce the desired rate of
return on equity.  In preparing the forecasts, it will be necessary, of
course, to take into account the spread and lending rate arrangements already
contractually agreed for loans made by FEN and those to be committed pursuant
to arrangements specified in FEN'S agreements with its lenders.  As suggested
in para 9, however, if the recommendations made herein for extended term
transformation are adopted, FEN will be able to apply new spread and lending
rate arrangements not only to future peso loans but also to presently
outstanding peso loans which would be renegotiated.   Similarly, there will be
a substantial potential for FEN to adopt and implement new spread and lending
rate arrangements for foreign loans which it would assume, and for the
extended term portion of outstanding foreign loans which it would renegotiate
(see para 22).  FEN'S ability to renegotiate outstanding foreign loans and to
apply new terms to future foreign loans to be funded from outstanding credits
may be subject to obtaining necessary approvals from its lenders.   The
financial forecasts should make appropriate allowance for these potentials.

37.   F                   F                   .    To ensure that FEN'S lending
rates appropriately reflect its current borrowing costs, FEN ehould
standardize its practices in this respect.   It is suggested that its policy
should be to apply stipulated spreads to average borrowing costs to determine
new lending rates at least semi-annually, and perhaps quarterly.   It is also
suggested that interest should accrue based on the new lending rate from the
time that the new rate is effective.

38.  Crowdinn Out.    The question whether FEN'S borrowings from the domestic
capital market would "crowd out'' other borrowers has been raised and answered

                                                                                    ANNEX 11
                                                                                  Page 15 of 18



i n the negative during project appraisal (SAR No. 4771-C0, paras 3.26 and
3.27) and during project implementation when FEN'S potential f o r mobilizing
domestic savings was evaluated (see reports of experts referred t o i n paras
5.15 and 5.18).        A t the time of appraisal, access t o the domestic c a p i t a l
market was regulated by the Government (SAR No. 4771-C0, paras 2.13 and 2.14).
Since November 1990, however, FEN is no longer subject t o Government control
i n t h i s respect, and it appears t h a t it i s f r e e t o compete f o r resources from
the domestic c a p i t a l market t o r a i s e the amounts it deems necessary t o fund
its activities (para 5.57).         On t h i s basis, and on the assumption t h a t other
sources of domestic finance a r e f r e e t o compete with FEN i n offering financial
assistance t o the power companies, the question of crowding out may not be
pertinsnt.      Because the power sector is an important productive sector, it may
be argued t h a t it should be able t o compete, directly o r through FEN o r other
lenders, f o r resources from the domestic c a p i t a l market, s o long as it does s o
without any special advantages o r preferences provided by t h e government.
This reasoning would be strengthened i f the power sector were operated and
managed efficiently, but despite the shortcomings i n t h i s respect, t h e
argument may be valid.         Nevertheless, i n view of the magnitude of FEN'S
expanded participation i n domestic c a p i t a l markets t o obtain resources t o
support the extension of power company debt repayment terms, as pointed out i n
para 39, it is l i k e l y that both the Bank and Colombian authorities w i l l wish
t o consider t h i s question again as part of the evaluation of FEN'S expanded
term transformation role.

39.      The one t h i r d increase i n FEN'S Col$ borrowings which occurred i n t h e
l a s t two months of 1990, and the phenomenal 440% increase i n 1991, were
necessary principally t o support its CADEX program t o provide assistance t o
power companies t o meet foreign debt service requirements.                I n addition, the
ColS19.76 b i l l i o n increase i n equity provided t o FEN by the Government i n
December 1990 was used f o r t h i s purpose.         (Paras 5.59-5.61).      I n US$ terms,
using year end exchange rates, the increase i n Col$ borrowings i n t h e l a s t two
months of 1990 was equivalent t o about USS28 million, the increase i n equity
i n December 1990 t o about US$35 million, and the increase i n Col$ borrowings
i n 1991 t o about US$438 million.         No information i s available concerning the
continuing requirements FEN may have under t h e CADEX program t o maintain and
increase its borrowings from the domestic c a p i t a l market.          This w i l l depend on
how f a s t the power companies can r e a l i s t i c a l l y repay the Col$ loans made t o
them under the CADEX program and what additional ColS loans they w i l l need t o
meet future debt service payments on outstanding foreign loans.                   It appears
that a l l the Col$ loans made under the CADEX               program in 1990 were short term
(para 5.60).      It is unlikely, however, that the full amount of these loans and
the much larger amount of Col$ loans made i n 1991 could be repaid within a
year o r less, although t o some extent they may have been bridge loans expected
t o be repaid within the short term.           I n addition, it is l i k e l y t h a t the power
companies w i l l need additional financing assistance t o meet future foreign
debt service requirements.        Thus, on balance, FEN may have t o r a i s e
substantial additional amounts from the domestic c a p i t a l market i n 1992 and
subsequent years t o support the CADEX program a s currently being implemented.

40.      An alternative and preferable solution t o the problems power companies
are experiencing i n meeting t h e i r foreign debt service requirements would be
the foreign f a c i l i t y which FEN would establish and manage, as discussed herein

                                                                 ANNEX 1%
                                                                Page 16 of 18




(paras 15 - 30). Implementation of this proposal would relieve the domestic
capital markets from the very substantial demands for funds which FEN would
require for the CADEX program as now being executed. Although comparable
resources would have to be obtained from foreign capital markets, those
markets are many times greater than the Colombian market. Moreover, in
financing the power sector, it would be better fiscal policy, and consistent
with long standing Colombian practice and policy, to borrow foreign funds to
meet foreign costs, including foreign debt service costs, when internally
generated funds are insufficient to pay such costs.

41.   If a decision is made to rely on Col$ borrowings to meet part of the
funds needed to extend the repayment terms of foreign loans, this assistance
should be provided on a more systematic basis than now being used, One
possibility would be to modify the procedures discussed herein for the foreign
facility to include a domestic facility which could be utilized as a
substitute source of funding the extension of the repayment terms of foreign
loans (see paras 20 -25).  If this were to be done, partial capitalization of
interest, as recommended in para 4, should also be applicable.

42.   Liquidity Buffer.   Because of FEN's reliance on term transformation and
the risk of collection delays, it was agreed during appraisal and confirmed
during negotiations that it would maintain at all times a liquidity buffer
equivalent to not less than two months (116) of estimated annual expenses plus
one month (1112) of the principal amount that would become due and payable to
local investors during the year (SAR No. 4771-C0, para 2.31).  The estimates
of expenditures and principal repayments on which these requirements would be
based are to be made in February of each year, and one half of the total
requirements are to be held in assets which could be converted into cash
within 90 days and the other half within 30 days (Loan Agreement, Section
4.06).  As an additional protective measure needed because of FEN'S reliance
on term transformation, it was also agreed as a condition of effectiveness
that FEN would be provided with access to short term borrowings from the
Central Bank to cushion it from an unexpected drop in savings mobilization,
similar to that available to other financial intermediaries. This would
provide coverage for short term liquidity problems resulting from an
unexpected drop in savings mobilization. It was expected that FEN'S quota in
this respect would be 100% of paid in capital and legal reserves for a maximum
of 90 days annually. (SAR No. 4771-C0,para 2.12; Loan Agreement, Section
6.01.)  During implementation, in 1985, FEN requested a reduction of the
minimum liquidity requirement but subsequently withdrew the request (paras
5.24 -5.25).

43.   An analysis of FEN's audited financial statements for 1990 indicates
that FEN met the minimum liquidity requirements with a comfortable margin.
Applying the definitions of Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement in retrospect,
rather than prospectively based on estimates as literally required, 116 of
expenditures in 1990 was about ColS12.5 billion. Assuming that the total
outstanding Col$ debt at year end would be repayable within a year, which is
an overstatement, 1/12 of the principal due to local investors was about
Co1$5.5 billion. This results in a total minimum liquidity requirement of
Col$18 billion, or USS31.5 million at the year end exchange rate. The
auditors report that at the year end, FEN had assets convertible into cash in

                                                                  ANNEX 11
                                                                 Page 17 of 18



less than 30 and 60 days, respectively, of Co1$22.2 billion and Col$19.9
billion, well in excess of the minimum requirement of Co1$9 billion in each
category (Auditors' Report for 1990, section on compliance with accounting and
financial clauses of Loan No. 2401 CO).  Using rough estimates of the impact
on interest and principal payment requirements resulting from the very large
increase of domestic borrowings which occurred in 1991 ((para 5.61), total
minimum liquidity requirements may have increased by Co1$33 billion to Co1$51
billion, or US$79 million at the year end exchange rate.

44.   The present minimum liquidity requirements were established at a time
when it was expected that (i) FEN'S receipts from repayments of foreign
currency denominated loans would match its expenditures to repay its foreign
currency borrowings and (ii) FEN's term transformation activities would be
limited to Col$ borrowing and lending. With the expansion of FEN'S role to
include term transformation of foreign currency denominated borrowing for the
power sector, the minimum liquidity requirements should make an allowance for
FEN's annual requirements to repay foreign as well as domestic loans. For
example, the liquidity requirement could be reformulated to refer to FEN's
total, rather than local, principal repayment requirements for the year as the
base for computing the 1/12 component of the requirement. The determination
of what would be a prudent liquidity buffer under FEN's expanded, and riskier,
term transformation role, is an important aspect of the studies recommended
hereunder. In this context, of course,'allowanceshould be made for the
income earning potential of short term investments as an offset to the costs
of maintaining the liquidity buffer. Taking this into account, it may be the
case that the net costs of maintaining a large liquidity buffer may not be so
significant. Also, of course, the availability of a liquidity quota from the
Central Bank would also be considered. Assuming that this is still available
in an amount equivalent to 100% of paid in capital plus legal reserves, at
year end 1990, it would have amounted to a line of credit of Co1$54.5 billion
or US$96 million, that could be utilized for a maximum of 90 days annually.

45.   Debt Equity Ratio.   FEN undertook to maintain its debt equity ratio
within the limit of 7 to 1, under the agreements for this project. As
explained in paras. 5.49-5.55, this limit was exceeded in the period 1988-1990
under circumstances such that the Bank granted temporary exceptions through
Dec. 31, 1990. It was expected that the additions to FEN's equity, which the
Government was authorized to make under Law 25 of 1990, would bring FEN back
into compliance with the 7 to 1 limit, but the Bank has no information as to
whether this in fact has occurred or is likely to occur in the near future.

46. Maintenance of a prudent debt equity ratio is another measure to protect
FEN from the risks involved in its term transformation activities because of
inability to obtain funds from expected refinancing of part of its debts or
from scheduled repayments of loans by some of its borrowers. Considering that
the 7 to 1 limit established at the beginning of its operations was a
relatively high limit and that its risks are increasing as a result of its
expanded term transformation role, any increase in the 7 to 1 limit at this
time would be of dubious merit. Some clarifications of definitions and
details of the calculation, however, would be appropriate (paras 5.50-5.52).

                                                                     ANNEX I1
                                                                    Page 18 of 18




47.      In addition to sources of increased Government contributions to FEN's
equity specified in Law 25 of 1990, another significant source may be the
prepayment of outstanding foreign loans to power companies which the
Government is now considering, as a result of Colombia's recent significant
improvement in its balance of payments and foreign exchange positions. The
Government has not yet indicated how this would be accomplished in relation to
the power companies which are the borrowers of the loans which may be prepaid.
To maintain appropriate financial discipline on the part of the power
companies, one method that may be advisable would be for the Government to
make the prepayment in exchange for a note from the power companies to
continue to service the amount prepaid by the Government, and for the
Government to transfer the note to FEN as an equity contribution. The terms
of the note, under which service of the amount prepaid would continue, might
be the same as would have continued to apply if the prepayment were not made.
More appropriately, the repayment period should be extended as suggested in
para 20, and the foreign exchange risks and interest bases might be simplified
as suggested in para 28.




                                      ADDENDUM

Information about the funds of the Social Security Institute (ISS) which FEN
has been administering in a fiduciary capacity is contained in the Audited
Financial Statements for 1988-1987, Annex C, pages 30-31: Audited Financial
Statements for 1989, Note 20 and Schedules 1,2 and 3; and FEN's Annual Report
(English version) for 1989, pages 14-16 and for 1990, pages 12, 13, 16 and 17.
In the appraisal report (SAR No. 4771     - CO, para 2.10 and Annexes 2.2 and
2 . 5 ) , these funds were treated on the basis that they would be reported as
part of FEN's financial statements, with the resources shown as liabilities
under the caption "Official Funds", their uses as assets and the attributable
income and expenses under pertinent categories on the Income Statement. The
SAR states that the resources made available from this source on a monthly
basis represent proceeds of Constant Value Bonds issued by ISS to be managed
by FEN and are to be repaid over 25 years at 5.5 percentage points above their
inflation adjusted value.

The use of the ISS resources was limited to financing the acquisition by power
companies of domestically produced goods and services (a restriction which was
lifted by Law 25 of 1990) and to make short and medium term temporary
investments in high yield liquid securities. (FEN's Annual Report for 1989,
English version, pages 14 and 16).     As of the end of 1989, loans and
investments in this account totalled ColS11 billion, of which loans were 31%
and investments 69%. Since inception of the account in November 1984, total
income earned on loans and investments has been insufficient to cover total
costs, of which about 93% represents the costs of the funds provided by ISS
and 7% commissions paid to FEN (Audited Financial Statements for 1989,
Schedule 3 and for 1988 and 1987, Annex C).     FEN'S Annual Report for 1989
states that because there was little demand for these resources on the terms
provided, it was difficult to administer them profitably. No explanation is
provided as to why the account's surplus funds could not be invested at yields
higher than the cost of the funds, which in 1989 appears to have been about 29%.

                                                                       A N N E X1 x 1
                                                                     Page 1 of 6




                             .:  .-:,.- ,.--
Santai5 de Sogotd, D.C.,   -
                             ;   ci;2  ,;:-.:.?




Senor
SFL4;iX?:I SkIITii
Jefe 3ivisidn Infrasstructura y Energia
Departamento 111
Oficina iizgional para America Latina
y El Caribe
Banco :vIundial
:,Vashin,~tonD.C.




Apreciado senor Smith:

En   atencibn a1 Inforrne de TerminaciSn de Proyectos corrtspondiente a1
PrCstamo 2401-CO entre el Banco Mundial y la FEN, me perinito hacer a
contii~uacibn10s siguientes comentarios:

1.   Parsgrafos 3.01, 4.01 y 4.05.             En cuanto a 10s objetivos del PrSstamo,
     el Informe hace Bnfasis en que desde su creacidn la FEN debid ejercor
      funciones como Banco de Desarrollo. Si bien en la dpoca de evaluacidn
      del credit0 y de la negocizcibn de las minutas del contrato Cste fue
      enunciado como uno entre varios propbsitos, se di6 nuchisirna in5s
      importancia a1 objetivo de apoyar a Colombia en sus esfuerzos para
      co~npletar una oferta electrica que diera respaldo a1 desarrollo y              a1
      ern?leo.  Por tanto,     el propdsito fundamental expresado          entonces f u s
      asegurar la construcciBn de proyectos de expanstdn elCctrica para evitar
      racionarnientos. No creernos que misiones de asesorfa a FEN en junio
      y noviembre de 1982 hayan logrado avances en la constitucidn de la
      FEN como Banco de Desarrollo cuando la entidad apenas empet6 a
      funcionar a finales de 1982 con una preocupacidn blsica centrada en
      su capitalizacidn proveniente de 10s recursos del Fondo de Desarrollo
      EIctrico,   administrado por el Banco de la Repdblica. Segfin nuestros
     registros escritos, Y     la "tradicibn oral" el origen de la FEN fue bien
      dtferente a1 que se quiere seRalar en el Inforrne. A1 tismpo, otras
      actividadas iniciales fueron la captacidn de ahorro local y la transferencia
      de recursos    mediante      el   mecanismo del redescuento,       antes que la
      conformacidn de una entidad para el control y la coordinacidil financiera
      sectorial.

                                                                ANNEX I11
                                                              Page 2 of 6




   Pardgrafo 4.08. El papzl de la FEN. Siendo cierto lo anterior, no es
   vPlida la afirmaci6n de que un aspect0 central del credit0 fuera el papel
   de la FEN corno Banco de Desarrollo para el sector elSctrico. Xealinente
   10s mayores esfusrzos tendieron a1 curnplimiento del objetivo destacado
   en el punto anterior y se vi6 a la FEN mas corno un canal de recursos,
   primer0 en inoneda local y luego en divfsas, hacia las empresas del
   sector eldctrico. Tan solo trzs o cuatro anos despuds se empezd a
   proaover la transforrnacibn     de la FEN para que se dedicara a 10s
   proflsftos que se mencionan en el Informe tendientes a1 control y manejo
   de la situacidn financiera sectorial.

   Paragrafo 4.09.    Uno de 10s factores que condujeron a        la situacidn
   mencionada era el papel que jugaba ISA en el sector electric0 por la
   Bpoca    Ciertamente, en    el Gobierno National, particularmznte en el
   Ministerio de Minas y Energla, y tarnbign en el propio Banco, se rnostrb
   una gran cautela en cuanto a que FEN asumlera desde un comienzo
   funciones de control y     coordinacibn que venfa desernpehando ISA.     En
   la prsctica,   durante el per'iodo   1983-1986 ISA continue mznejando la
   coordinacidn tecnica y financiera del sector, inientras que la FEN se
   dedicd a la consecucidn de 10s recursos que demandaran las empresas
   para cumplir sus planes de expansi6n.

   Como resultado, ni en la FEN ni en el Gobierno, ni en el prop10 Banco,
   hub0   las condiciones propiclas     para que la nueva entidad asumiera
   funciones de Ilderazgo en las finanzas seceoriales.

4. Las   transformaciones    a1  interior  del  manejo sectorial  fueron  muy
   graduales. Como lo anota ei Informe, por primera vez en mayo de 1983
   el Gobierno asurn16 un papel decistvo en las definiciones sobre el plan
   de expansidn el&ctrica, cuando el CONPES debatlb el terna Entonces
   se consider6 que el crecirniento de la demanda de energla electrica
   estarla bastante por debajo de 10s prondsticos del sector y que por tanto
   se podZa aplazar notableinente la construccibn de nuevos proyectos de
   generacfdn. Fue tainbisn la primera vez en la que se mencionaron la$
   necesarias    correlaciones  entre    el  desarrollo eldctrico  y  el  plan
   macroecon6mico y se empezaron a evidenciar las restricciones financieras
   derlvadas del alto endeudamiento.

   El resultado ha sido que tan solo un proyecto nuCvo se ha infciado desde
   ese ano. Es el caso de la Central HidroelBctrica de Riogrande 11, en
   cuya definici6n prim6 el que         se trataba de una obra de mClltlple
   propbsito, por lo que su importancia para cubrir las, necesidades de agua
   potable en el lrea de Medellln fue decisiva Los demss proyectos en
   10s planes de expansidn preparados por el sector, aJn desde 1977, est5n
   pendientes de una definicien sobre la fecha en que deba iniciarse la
   construccibn de sus obras prlncipales.

                                                                                                   ANNEX I11
                                                                                                Page 3 of 6




           En c'ctanto a1 aspect.:,           financisro,       entre 1385 y                1987 hizo crisis la
           deseonfianza rnanifestada por el propio Sobierno Nacional hacia el papel
           de ISA en estas rnsterias. Es asi colno en la definicidn del plan de ajustt
           la adrninistracidn del perlodo 1385-1990, sz encornendd a la FEN la
           preparacidn de las proyecciones                    financieras y el sdguimienta de las
           misrnas, labor que sirvid corno referencia para la contrstacidn del Credit0
           2 8 8 9 4 9 entre el Banco y la RepGblica de Colozbia.

       5.  Farsgrafo 5.07. Otro terna dal Inforne, sobre el papel de la FEN en
           10s aAos anteriores, se refiere a la evaluacldn de 10s pr8stamos. Hasta
           finales de      1990 la FEN solaqent2 otorgd crdditos                               destinados a la
           inversibn.     En    general,      esos      crGditos,      incluldos          10s proveniant2s    del
           Prdstamo 2401-CO, tuvieron como propdsito coinplementar las fuentes
           de financiacidn de proyectos en construccidn, rnuchos de 10s cttalcs hablan
           sido examinados previamente por el Sanco klundial o el BID. Por lo
           anterior,     se consider6         que      no era llecesario un                  nuevo proceso de
           evaluacidn dado que esos proyectos tenfan estudios de prefactibilidad,
           factibilidad y diseno e inforrnes de evaluacidn de uno u otro banco.
           Sin embargo, la FEN desde 1987 ha constituTdo grupos de evaluacidn
           para 10s nuevos proyectos, con base en la metodologla desarrollada con
           ocasidn     del   PrBstamo         BID       237/IC-CO.         Internament~, el           proceso  de
           asinnacidn de crdditos contempla el andlisis tdcnico, econdmico, financidro
           e &stitucional tanto de 10s proyectos corno de las empresas solicitantes
           de    10s    recursos.     El    documento           de    evaluacidn            es  sometido     a  la .
           consideracijn        del      Cornit6         Interno        de         Crddito      quien    presenta
           recomendaciones a la Presidencia de la FEN y dsta a la Junta Directiva

       6.  Paragrafos 5.08 y 5.09. La bass de 10s modelos de proyecciones utilizados
           en la FEN y por e l sector electrico proviene de 10s modelos utilizados
           por el BID (SPMOD) 10s cuales han sido revisados y                                  mejorados en Ia
           FEN; con el reconocirniento del propio BID. Estos modelos reeinplazaron
           el modelo FAST utilizado por ISA y el Banco Mundial, con la acegtacidn
           de este Gltixio.

           Por     tanto,     las    criticas         sobrs     el    particular            debleran    resolverse
           conjuntainente con 10s bancos multilaterales.

           En cuanto a la informacidn es evidente la dificultad en su manejo, sobre
           todo cuando hay tantas entidades a cuyo cargo se tienen par6rnetros
            fundamentales        en     la     preparacidn         de        las       proyecciones     (escenario
           macroeconbrnico, tarifas, balance energgtico, inversiones, etc.) y, ademb,
           teniendo en cuenta la gran complejidad institutional del sector electrico.
           Lo anterior hace que se requieran rnodelos que representen adecuadamente
           estas caractzrlsticas. Solo modelos con algtin nivel de detalle pueden
           producir proyecciones que sean cercanamente representativos de la posible
           evoluciBn del sector. Desde luego es conveniente tener modelos mas




Calle 71A ND6-200 1 ~20 3osota. D.E.C O ~ O T ~Teij; ~157.1)2:7?:00 ~ j : ~ [ 5 7 - 121 19776
                     3                         , S                                   1       ~  a"20;l FE>,ICO
                                                                                                        ~   ~

                               - 117 -                          ANNEX 111
                                                             Page 4 of 6




   mencionados en el Informe relatives a 13 excelente imagen con que
   cuenta la entidad entre 10s ahorradores y a 10s mecanismos de captacibn
   d~sarrollados durante su existencia. Estos rscursos se han trasladado
   en crbditos a Iss empresas, principalrnente      destinados a1 servicio de
   la deuda que cuenta con SarantPa de la Nacidn.

8. Par'agrafos 5.39 y 5.40.     Como ya se rnenciond tambien ha sido gradual
   el proceso de transformacldn de la FEN, el cual se concretd con las
   reformas legales efectuadas entre 1990 y 1991. En primer lugar, con
   la Ley 25 de 1990 y su Decreto Reglarnentario 1805/90, que la convirtiera
   en la Financlera Ener~Stica Naclonal S.A.      -  FEN, ampllando su radio
   de accidn tanto en lo relativo a las empresas a las que puede otorgarles
   crddlto como en cuanto a 10s rubros elegi3les para financiacibn. AdemBs,
   se cambid el rCgimen de garantfas.

   Tambidn dursnte 1990, una nueva reforms, pernitib a la FEN otorgar
   crCditos directos en rnoneda local haciendo que el redescuento fuera
   una opcibn para la colocacibn de 10s crdditos locales, pero ya no la
   Gnica alternativa. En 1991, con la reforma financiera, se dieron mayores
   posibilidades a la FEN, inscribiBndola dentro del regimen correspondiente
   a las Corporaclones Financieras, por lo que la entidad tendr3 mayor
   flexibilidad en el desarrollo de sus actividades frente a1 sector de energla
   (sobre estos t e n a s hay explicaciones m5s detalladas en 10s documentos
   preparados por la FEN y entregados a1 Banco Mundial sobre el tema
   de la cl5usula de prenda negativa.)

   Todas las      transforrnaciones mencionadas  a  lo largo de varios aios
   posibilitan una efecttva funcidn de la FEN como Banco de DesarroIlo,
   controlador de la gestldn financiera de las Empresas. Este papel ha
   sido    confirmado     por   el  Gobierno  Nacional   durante  la   presente
   -4drninistracidr1,  la cual defini6 el plan de reforma del sector en el
   docurnento     aprobado por    el CONPES el 21 de mayo de este afio,
   "Estrategia para la Xeestructuracidn del Sector Eldctrico". All1 se definen
   las tareas de 12s diferentes entidades y, en particular, a la FEY s e
   le asigna la suscripci4n de convenios de desernpeno con las principales
   empresas del sector donde se les definan aetas de gestidn.

9. Se hace mencidn tarnbisn en el Informe a que la FEN se ha convertido
   en una ventana cuasi-fiscal de recursos hacia el sector eldctrico a travCs
   de la capitalizaci5n de la entidad. Esta aprzciacldn no corresponde a
   la realidad, puesto que las capltalizaciones de la FEN han provenido
    originalrnente del traslado de 10s rscursos existentes en el Fondo de
    Desarrollo Eldctrico y m8s adelante casi en su totalidad de las proplas
    utilidades de la FEN. El manejo de 10s recursos y la colocacibn de 10s
    cr6ditos han sido 10s    correspondientes a una entid'ad financiera vigilada
    por   la  Superintendencia    aancaria, buscando  preservar  la sanldad y
    estabiiidad de ia empresa en bencficio del proceso de ajuste del sector

                                                            ANNEX 111
                                                         Page 5 of 6

                             .
                   !     .
                                ;'FlNANClERA
                                : ENERGETICA
                                ' NACIONAL S.A




sirnplificados, 10s cuales ya se han desarrollado      tamblSn, pero 6110s
solamente deben utilizarse para cizrtos an3llsls de sensibilldad, luego
de haber calculado 10s Brdenes de magnitud de las proyeccfones con
10s rnodelos mas detallados.

Paragrafo 5-18.   Sobre el tzna de la movilizaciSn de fondos en rnoneda
local, el Informe plantea que la FEN en sus grlrneros afios no pudo llevar
a la prsctlca un traslado masivo de recursos. Se explica, con razbn,
que la principal causa estriba en prlmer lugar en el tamailo reducido
del sector financier0 colornbiano, pero taabidn en la desconfianza de
10s bancos y corporaciones hacia las entidades del sector electrico. Sin
embargo, no s e hace referencia a que el nivel de las captaciones y
las condiciones    financieras de las     misinas estaban regfdas  por  las
autoridades inonetarias con fuertes restricciones, en particular en cuant:,
a su volurnen. Todo ello condujo a que no se cumpliaran las rnetas sobre
el particular establecldas originalmenee. Lo anterior cambid dr3sticaixente
en el Gltimo a o . En efecto, en noviembre de 1990 la Junta Monetaria
levant6 las limitaclones a la FEN para sus captaciones tanto en 10s
montos coino en las tasas de interbs. En~oncesel nivel de tltulos de
la FEN en circulacidn en el mercado local ascenda a unos 54.500
millones. La cifra pas6 a unos 66.000 millones en diciembre de 1990
y luego ha tenido la siguiente evolucidn durante el transcurso del presente
d o :



      m v L O S FEN EN CIRCULACION, 1991




       FIN DE



       Marzo                        128.818.0
       Junio                       222.472.8
       Septiembre                   297.928.2
       Diciembre                    356.893.7



En un afio el nivel de capcaciones sz ha hecho mas de sets veces mayor,
 lo  cual   es  un   resultado. del conjunto    de medidas reIativas  a   la
 transformacijn de la FEN y2 expuesto y, desde luego, a 10s dos elementos

                                                                ANNEX 111
                                                              Page 6 of 6


                              I .\ -'(FINANCIERA
                            I         ENERGETICA
                                      NACIONAL S.A.




     electrtco y del buen cuirlado de 10s recursos colocados en la FEN tanto
     por 10s ahorradorzs locales como por 10s bancos internacronales y por
     el propto Gobierno.

     El cornentarto del Banco parece referirse a1 mecanismo del Fondo de
     Monedas Extranjeras (FODEX), con cuentas tanto del Gobierno Naclonal
     como del Banco de la Repfibllca, que sirvieron para atender obligaciones
     de varias entidades, principalmente del sector electrico, con el exterior.
     Recientemente    (desde hace un afio,    aproximadamente), la FEN ha
     establecido una llnea de crddito para otorgar prCstainos a las empresas
     tambien con el objeto de que sirvan oportunamente su deuda externa.
     Sin embargo, la asignacidn de estos prestamos se hace tambien a travds
     del proceso crediticio de la FEN, dando cumplimiento a 10s principles
     establecidos en el Reglamento de Crddito de la Financiera Por tanto,
     10s incumplimientos de las empresas en sus obligaciones con la FEN
     conducirlan a que se suspendan 10s desembolsos y a             la eventual
     aceleracidn de 10s crbditos.


Espero que estos comentarios sean de utilidad para ustedes en la preparacidn
del Informe definitlvo. Con-gusto estaremos dlspuestos a discutirlos con ustedes
sf lo consideran necesario.

Cordial saludo,




Presidente I     vi7$




