OFFICIAL
S                 LOAN NUMBER 2401 CO
10WYUMENTS
Guarantee Agreement
(Power Development Finance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                           ,1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2401 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                a -t 7        , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Financiera El4ctrica Nacional S.A. (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
over a loan in varl, -   currencies equivalent to one hundred
seventy million dollars ($170,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to borrow from lenders out-
side Colombia, including the Bank, an amount equivalent to
$200,000,000 (hereinafter called Additional External Financing)
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(C) the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to guaran-
tee the obligations of the Borrower under such Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "ICEL" means Instituto Colombiano de Energfa E16ctrica;
and
(b) "CORELCA" means Corporacion El"ctrica de la Costa
Atlantica.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual perfor-
mance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other assets, satisfactory to the Bank, of the Guarantor or of


﻿- 3 -
any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account
or benefit of, the Guarantor, including gold and other foreign
exchange assets held by any institution performing the functions
of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions for the Guarantor.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Gua-
rantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall authorize, or cause to be
authorized, the initiation of any new electricity development
project by any of the power companies operating in the electri-
city sector in Colombia, only in the event that such projects are
economically justified and that the respective power company dis-
poses of adequate financing for such purposes and for the carry-
ing on of its existing operations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall: (a) take, or cause to be
taken, all actions necessary to enable the Borrower to prepare
and furnish to the Bank the plan referred to in Section 4.11 of
the Loan Agreement; and (b) promptly put into effect such plan.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take, or cause to be
taken, all actions necessary to enable the Borrower to meet its
borrowing targets in the Colombian capital market set forth in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.12 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. Not later than: (a) April 1 of each year, the
Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank and the Borrower for
the purposes of paragraph (b) of Section 4.12 of the Loan Agree-
ment; and (b) August 31 of each year, the Guarantor shall ex-


﻿change views with the Bank, the Borrower and Interconexion
El4ctrica S.A. for the purposes of Section 4.13 (b) of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall: (a) furnish to the Bank,
not later than December 31, 1984, for its review and comments, a
proposal for the computation of a price index reflecting the
actual variation of the prices of goods and services relevant to
the electricity sector; and
(b) starting January 1, 1985, compute and publish the
variations in the price index referred to in (a) above on a
quarterly basis.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall, promptly as required,
take all actions necessary on its part to enable the Power Com-
panies to set and maintain its electric tariffs and charges at
levels sufficient at all times to fulfill each of the Power
Companies' obligations pursuant to Section 4.04 of the Power
Financing Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under
the laws of the Guarantor to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for each Sub-project.
Section 3,09. The Guarantor shall, promptly as needed, take
all actions necessary or advisable on its part, including the
provision of Lunds, to enable the Power Companies punctually to
perform their respective obligations (including their financial
obligations) under the Power Financing Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Guarantor undertakes that the Power Finan-
cing Agreement shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Guarantor shall: (a) prepare and fur-
nish to the Bank, not later than November 30, 1984, the plans and
schemes referred to in sub-paragraph (c) (ii) of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement; (b) take, and shall cause ICEL and CORELCA to
take, all actions necessary, including the timely provision of
budgetary resources, in order to enable such Power Companies to


﻿- 5 -
carry out such plans and schemes; and (c) take all actions neces-
sary, including the timely provision of funds, in order to enable
ICEL and CORELCA to make the payments required to service the
Sub-loans and FEN loans made to them by the Borrower under the
Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Guarantor shall cause ICEL to carry
out an administrative reorganization plan based on the recom-
mendations of the study on its reorganization carried out by
ICEL's Divisi6n de Asesorfa y Control Administrativo, such plan
to include the establishment, not later than December 31, 1984,
of a financial department (sub-gerencia financiera) and an opera-
tions department (sub-gerencia de operaciones), with functions
satisfactory to the Bank and adequate staffing.
(b) The Guarantor shall cause ICEL: (i) to prepare, not
later than August 31, 1984, a preliminary estimate of the current
value of ICEL's fixed assets in operation and works in progress
in accordance with sound accounting principles; and (ii) there-
after, and until another method, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the maintenance of value of assets shall have been made applic-
able by ICEL, continue to revalue the current value of the assets
determined pursuant to (i) above in accordance with paragraphs 5,
6 and 7 of Schedule 2 to the Power Financing Agreement.
(c) The Guarantor shall cause ICEL: (i) to carry out, not
later than December 31, 1984, a study to determine the valuation
of ICEL's fixed assets in operation and works in progress in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) for purposes of carrying out the study referred to in (i)
above, employ consultants with qualifications and experience sat-
isfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.13. The Guarantor shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30 in each year, furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the
updated electricity demand growth projections and the related
power investment program on the basis of a study prepared there-
for on an annual basis by ISA.
Section 3.14. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor, in its capacity as shareholder of
the Borrower, shall take all action necessary to ensure that the
Borrower shall not declare or pay any cash dividend on account of
any of its shares, or repurchase any of its shares of stock for
cash.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Plblico of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y
Cr6dito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agusti'n
Bogota,
Colombia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINHACIENDA                       44473 (ITT)
Bogota
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 7 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting Lhrough their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of
Paris, France, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By S/#L:2aA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this      -   day of        198
FOR SECRETARY


