FCIAL    IAN NUMBER 2401 CO
Loan Agreement
(Power Development Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FINANCIERA ELECTRICA NACIONAL S.A.
Dated                                  , 1984


﻿NUMBER 2401 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    7, 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REC NSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and FINANCIERA ELECTRICA NACIONAL S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Borrower and the Power Companies (as hereinafter
defined) have entered into an agreement of even date herewith
pursuant to which each of the Power Companies has undertaken cer-
tain obligations with respect to the Bank and the Borrower;
(C) the Borrower will on-lend the proceeds of the Loan to
the Power Companies in order to enable the latter to carry out
specific Sub-projects, and for such purposes the Borrower shall
enter into subsidiary loan agreements with the respective Power
Companies in the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
(D) the   Borrower  intends  to  borrow  from  lenders out-
side Colombia, including the Bank, an amount equivalent to
$200,000,000   (hereinafter   called   the   Additional  External
Financing) to assist in the financing of the Project;
(E) the Republic of Colombia (hereinafter called the Gua-
rantor) by agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor
and the Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement), in
consideration of the Bank's entring into this Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to, inter alia, guarantee the repayment of
the principal of the Loan and payment of interest and other
charges thereon;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,


﻿- 2 -
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sche-
dule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Bank's share
of the Additional External Financing to a Power Company to cover
the foreign exchange cost of a Sub-project and "free-limit Sub-
loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-
limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement.
(b) "FEN Loans" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a Power Company out of the proceeds of the Addi-
tional External Financing not provided by the Bank to finance a
Sub-project.
(c) "Power Company" means any of the following power com-
panies: Interconexi6n El'ctrica S.A., Empresas Publicas de Mede-
11fn, Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Cauca, Empresa de Energfa
El'ctrica de Bogota, Instituto Colombiano de Energ a El4ctrica
and Corporacion El5ctrica de la Costa Atdntica, such power com-
panies hereinafter collectively called the Power Companies.
(d)  "Sub-project" means a specific development project to
be carried out by a Power Company utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan or the proceeds of a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a Power Company out of the proceeds of the Addi-
tional External Financing, or both, and consisting in a power
generation, transmission or distribution project and general
plant relating to the foregoing or a portion thereof currently
being carried out or to be carried out by a Power Company or
studies related to power sector operations and developments.
(e)  "Relevant Legislation and Regulations" means the Gua-
rantor's Ley No. 11 dated January 20, 1982; Decreto No. 1471,
dated May 27, 1982; Decreto No. 2267, dated August 2, 1982; and
Decreto No. 3574, dated December 30, 1983, as such Ley or Decre-
tos may be amended from time to time.


﻿-3-
(f)  "Credit Regulations" means the Reglamento de Credito
approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower on Novem-
ber 24, 1982, the Manual de Credito approved by Circular
Normativa No. CN15 of 1984 of the Borrower, and Resoluc16nNo.03
of 1984 of the Borrower's Board of Directors, as such Reglamento,
Manual and Resolucion may be amended from time to time.
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement between
the Borrower and a Power Company providing for a Sub-loan or a
FEN Loan and referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(h) "Power Financing Agreement" means the agreement between
the Borrower and the Power Companies of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Power Financing Agreement and all agreements
supplemental thereto.
(i)  "Account Bank" means Banco de la Repdblica.
(j) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(k) "Initial Deposit" means the amount of the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account through one or more
withdrawals under Category (3) of the table set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(1)  "pesos" and "Col$" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(m) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred seventy million dollars ($170,000,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of: (i)
disbursements made to a Power Company under a Sub-loan to meet
the reasonable cost of goods and services, and interest and other
charges during construction under existing Bank loans to such
Power Company for the Sub-project in respect of which the with-
drawe,1 from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however,
that no withdrawal ehall be made in respect of a Sub-loan unless:
(A) the Sub-loan has been approved by the Bank, or (B) the Sub-
loan is a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account; (ii) payments made by the
Borrower to meet the reasonable cost of the consultant services
required by the Borrower to carry out the program described in
sub-paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement; and
(iii) the payment to be made by the Borrower pursuant to Section
2.04 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, open
and thereafter maintain in the Account Bank a Special Account
denominated in, and convertible into, dollars on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into and payments out of
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-
project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $4,000,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Sub-
project; provided, however, that the first three Sub-loans each
of which do not exceed the sum of $4,000,000 equivalent to be
presented by the Borrower for financing under the Loan shall not
be considered free-limit Sub-loans.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding $29,000,000 equivalent, may
be made out of the proceeds of the Sub-loans on account of the
reasonable cost of goods and services paid for Sub-projects
before that date but after January 1, 1983; or (ii) except as
provided under the preceeding subparagraph, expenditures by a
Power Company in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval if such expenditures shall have been made more than one


﻿-5-
hundred-eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such Sub-loan the application and
information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in
respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than one hundred-eighty
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan the request and information
required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement; or (iii) expendi-
tures under a Sub-project, whenever the amount of such expendi-
tures, when added to all other expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan for the respective Sub-project, exceed the
estimated foreign exchange cost for such Sub-project calculated
in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank; provided,
however, that financing of consultants' services under a Sub-
project shall be limited to fifty percent (50%) of the total
reasonable cost of such services.
(e) If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any of the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of a Sub-loan is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in Schedule I to the Power Financ-
ing Agreement, no expenditure for such item shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Bank's share of the Additional
External Financing, as the case may be, and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Sub-loan.
(f)   The proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated and dis-
bursed as set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with: (i) the name of the Power Company and an
appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
ach other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)  Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i) the name of the Power Company and a


﻿- 6 -
summary description of the Sub-project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section: (i) shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1985; and (ii) shall be
presented in respect of Sub-loans to be made to Instituto
Colombiano de Energ a E14ctrica or to Corporaci6n Eltrica de
la Costa Atlantica only if the Bank shall have been furnished,not
later than November 30, 1984, with: (A) a financial plan, satis-
factory to the Bank, for each such Power Company covering their
respective financial program and performance during the years
1984 through 1987; and (B) a complete financing scheme, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for the Urra project (in respect of Corporaci6n
El4ctrica de la Costa Atlantica) and for the La  Miel project (in
respect of Instituto Colombiano de Energra Elctrica).
(d) The Borrower shall not make a FEN Loan to a Power Com-
pany unless such Company is eligible for receiving a Sub-loan.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to four hundred twenty-three thousand nine hundred
forty dollars ($423,940).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one


﻿- 7 -
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as pra:ticable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The objectives of the Project are to pro-
vide financial assistance to the Power Companies to enable the


﻿-8-
latter to carry out the construction of power generation, trans-
mission and distribution projects and general plant related to
the foregoing included in the Power Companies' investment pro-
grams for the years 1983 to 1985, and the strengthening of the
technical capability of the Borrower. The Project consists of:
(i) the financing of Sub-projects through loans to the Power Com-
panies in furtherance of such purposes of the Borrower as are
provided in the Relevant Legislation and Regulations and the
Credit Regulations; and (ii) a program to strengthen the tech-
nical capacity of the Borrower in its lending activities, includ-
ing a study of the Borrower's technical staffing requirements for
evaluating loan proposals and monitoring Project implementation.
(b) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective
of the Project set forth in paragraph (a) above, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with sound financial and banking standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the Relevant Legislation and Regulations and the
Credit Regulations.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
the program referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) above, the Borrower
shall, by June 30, 1984, employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1984, carry out
the study included in the program referred to in paragraph (a)
(ii) above, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank for com-
ment the recommendations of such study; and (iii) based on the
recommendations of such study and the Bank's comments thereon,
employ experienced and qualified staff needed for its technical
operations.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower undertakes that, any Sub-loan
or FEN Loan made by the Borrower to a Power Company for the pur-
pose of financing a Sub-project will be made on terms and condi-
tions whereby the Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the respective Power Company, satisfactory to the


﻿- 9 -
Bank, such agreement to include, inter alia: (i) the Power Com-
pany's obligation to repay such Sub-loan or FEN Loan in an amount
in pesos equivalent to the various currencies in which the prin-
cipal of the Loan or the Additional External Financing would be
payable, such amount to be determined on the basis of the rate of
exchange between the peso and such various currencies in effect
at the time each payment is made* (ii) the Power Company's oblig-
ation to pay interest and other charges in such amounts as shall
be necessary to cover the cost to the Borrower of the Loan and
the Additional External Financing plus a spread of one half of
one percent, such spread to be reviewed from time to time by the
Borrower and revised, if advisable, in agreement with the Bank,
such cost of borrowings, interest and other charges to be calcu-
lated in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank;
(iii) the Power Company's obligation to repay the principal of
such Sub-loan or FEN Loan in a period not exceeding fifteen years
including a grace period not exceeding four years; (iv) the
description of the respective Sub-project and the goods and
services to be financed out of proceeds of such Sub-loan or FEN
Loan; and (v) the confirmation in respect of the respective Sub-
project of the obligations of the Power Company set forth in the
Power Financing Agreement.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, waive, abrogate, amend or fail to enforce the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, the Sub-prcjects, the Sub-loans or FEN loans
including all information to be furnished by the Power Companies
to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of the Power Financing
Agreement or Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation, where
applicable, of the Sub-projects, their costs and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exercise its rights in re-
lation to the Power Financing Agreement in such a manner as to


﻿- 10 -
protect the interest of the Bank and the Borrower, and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, waive, abrogate
or amend any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain procedures
and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project and of each Sub-project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained until
one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts, and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditures, and
shall enable or cause to enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) and the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but
in any case not later than three months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year and of the Special Account as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds
of the loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures have been used for the purposes for
which they were provided; (iii) furnish to the Bank each month
certified statements of the Special Account showing the move-
ments in such Account during the previous calendar month; and
(iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested showing: (i) not later than two months after
the end of each calendar quarter of the fiscal year, the Bor-
rower's performance during the twelve-month period preceding the
end of such quarter and projected for the immediately following
twelve-month period; and (ii) not later than two months after the
end of each fiscal year, up-to-date projections of the Borrower's
balance sheets, statements of income and statements of sources
and applications of funds for the following seven-year period.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsi-
diary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, tnat the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property
or as security for the payment of the debt incurred for the
purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.05 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 7
to 1.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
Borrower.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such gua-
rantee has been entered into but only to the ex-
tent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total unim-
paired paid-up capital, retained earnings and re-
serves of the Borrower not allocated to cover
specific liabilities.
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, during the month of February of each year:
(i) prepare, in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to
the Bank, an estimate of (A) the expenditures to be incurred by
the Borrower during the following twelve months, and (B) the
local debt amortization service requirements of the Borrower for
the same period; and (ii) maintain, at all times during each
twelve month-period following the month in which the estimate is


﻿- 13 -
made, a reserve, to be held half in assets which could, in the
ordinary course of business, be converted into cash within 90
days and half in other assets which could, in the ordinary course
of business, be converted into cash within 30 days, equal in the
aggregate to not less than the sum of: (A) 1/6 of the total
expenditures estimated to be incurred by the Borrower during such
period plus (B) 1/12 of the aggregate of the local debt amortiza-
tion service requirements of the Borrower for the same period.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "expenditures" means all expenditures,
including administration (excluding depreciation
and other non-cash operating charges), interest
and other charges on debt (excluding interest
financed under a loan contract), all taxes or
payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends and
other cash distributions of surplus, and any other
cash outflows other than repayments of the princi-
pal of debt;
(ii) The term "local debt amortization service require-
ments" means the aggregate amount of amortization
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of any
debt of the Borrower in pesos; and
(iii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date, and to the ex-
tent, the amount of such debt has become outstand-
ing  pursuant  to   such  contract, agreement   or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such gua-
rantee has been entered into but only to the ex-
tent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower (other than the Loan) which, in the judgment of the
Bank, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its
financial obligations.


﻿- 14 -
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfac-
tory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including pesos) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 4.09. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower, and the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 (a)
of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1984, furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank a plan of
action, acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank, for purposes of
enabling the Borrower to raise resources in the Colombian capital
market on a medium- and long-term basis.
Section 4.12. (a) The Borrower shall take all actions neces-
sary in order to raise in the domestic capital market in Colombia
an amount in pesos of not less than: 10,000 million during the
calendar year 1984; 11,800 million during the calendar year 1985;
14,700 million during the calendar year 1986 and 17,900 million
during the calendar year 1987.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than April 1 in each
year, exchange views with the Guarantor and the Bank on the per-
formance by the Borrower of its borrowing and lending operations
during the preceding twelve-month period and its projected bor-
rowing and lending operations during the immediately suceeding
twelve-month period, the extent to which the lending channels
established in the Relevant Legislation and Regulations enable
the Borrower to comply with its lending targets and the adequacy
of the annual domestic borrowing targets set forth in paragraph
(a) above, as revised from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, specifically on the basis of the exchange
of views pursuant to Section 4.13 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.13. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
September 15, 1984, carry out a study, in accordance with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the finances of the
power sector in Colombia including the formulation and evaluation
of alternative proposed strategies for the financing of the power
sector's investment program; and (ii) promptly thereafter, ex-
change views with the Bank on, and submit to the Guarantor for
its consideration the conclusions of said study and the recom-
mendations deriving therefrom.
(b) The Borrower shall exchange views with the Guaran-
tor, the Bank and Interconexi6n El'ctrica S.A. not later than
August 31 in each year beginning the year 1985 on the adequacy of
the existing financing strategy for the power sector in Colombia
and on the necessary revisions thereto, the first exchange of
views to be carried out on the basis of the study referred to in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 4.14. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not enter into new lending commitments (either in
the form of new loans, rescheduling or refinancing of existing
loans or any other operation which would result in the provision
of additional financial assistance) with any of the Power Com-
panies or other borrowers of the Borrower which shall have failed
to make payments under lending commitments made by the Borrower
(either in the form of loans, rescheduling or refinancing of
existing loans) at the time such amounts became due and payable,
until such payments shall have been made.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gene-
ral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Relevant Legis-
lation and Regulations or in the Credit Regulations which would


﻿- 16 -
materially and adversely affect, in the Bank's opinion, the
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or the
execution of the Project;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(d) the Borrower 6r any of the Power Companies shall have
failed to comply with any of their respective obligations under
the Power Financing Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
and
(e) the Borrower's access to Banco de la Republica's redis-
counting facilities referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall have been terminated or such access shall have been limited
or otherwise amended in a way in which, the terms provided to the
Borrower are less favorable than those given to similar financial
intermediaries operating in Colombia.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) or in paragraph
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Termination, Address
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Bank shall have been furnished evidence satis-
factory to the Bank to the effect that the Guarantor has given
to the Borrower adequate access to Banco de la Repdlblica's re-
discount credit facilities for providing coverage to financial
intermediaries against short-term liquidity problems arising from


﻿- 17 -
sudden reduction in deposits, under the same conditions appli-
cable to similar financial intermediaries operating in Colombia.
Section 6.02. The date   -O Ati.24 1           I)4 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Financiera El'ctrica Nacional S.A.
Calle 71 A, No. 6-30
Piso 20
Bogota, Colombia
Telex:
61726


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of
Paris, France, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authori-;ed Representative
FINANCIERA ELECTRICA NACIONAL S.A.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans                119,496,060       100% of the
amounts dis-
bursed by the
Borrower
(2) Consultants'                   80,000       100% of foreign
Services                                   expenditures and
50% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Initial Deposit            50,000,000       Amount due under
in Special                                 paragraph 3 of
Account                                    Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
(4) Fee                           423,940       Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
TOTAL          170,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated tc any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower or at the request
of the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent


﻿- 20 -
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply there-
of; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or
in respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such Category as re-
quired to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1988
through September 1, 2000                  6,540,000
On March 1, 2001                                6,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums of Prepayments
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                         .18
before maturity
More than three years but                         .35
not more than six years be-
fore maturity
More than six years but not                       .65
more than eleven years be-
fore maturity
More than eleven years but                        .88
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years be-                      1.00
fore maturity


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The word "Sub-projects" is substituted for the words
"the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall have been suspnnded with respect to any amount of the Loan
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date
specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section 2.03 of the Loan
Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date
an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of
the Loan, the Bank mry by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.      Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled."


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Annex:
(a) the term "Categories" means, collectively, Category (1)
and Category (2) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the term "Category" means one of
them; and
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of interest and other charges included in Sub-projects
paid by the Power Companies before the Effective Date and the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the Categories in accordance with the provisions
of, and in the percentages set forth in, the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusive-
ly for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule. For each withdrawal, the Account Bank shall debit
the Special Account with the dollar equivalent of the amount in
pesos, or any other currency other than dollars so withdrawn,
determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between the
dollar and such currency in effect.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit. Thereafter and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Dank at such in-
tervals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent
that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
the initial deposit. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each
such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Categories, and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justi-
fied by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 25 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account may be made by
the Bank (a) when the Bank shall have determined at any time that
all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement, or (b) when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Categories minus the
amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank
and of any special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Categories, shall be equal to the equivalent of $70,000,000.
Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower
and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, be made only
after and to the extent the Bank shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of -J       198f.
FOR SECRETARY


