Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
LA). 2336--Yc
Reput No. P-3622-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INlERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOIAN
IN ANi AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$IO MILLION
TO
FOUR YUGOSLAV RAIWAY TRANSPORT ORGANIZATIONS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
June 29, 1983
This docunwnt bas a restricted distribution and may be usi by recipients only in the perfwme of
their offichd duties. Its eontuts IMAY not *berwise be disdoed win_t WorJJ B1"k mdorbtoo.



CURRENCY- EQUT.VALENTS*
Currency Unit - Dinar (Din)
Currency Unit 1J         Calendar 1982 2/   June 15, 1983
US$l                    Dinar 51.32        Dinar 86.82
Dinar 1                 US$O.019           US*0.012
Dinar 1,000,000         US$19,485.58       US$ll,518.C8
FISCAL YEAR
Jauary 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY-OF ABFREVIAIIONS
BOAL               Basic Organization of Associated Labor
cOI                Coumuunity of Interest
CYR                Coumunity of Yugoslav Railways
FCTC               Federal Comcittee for Transport
and Comrnications
LDk                Less Developed Regions
MDR                More Developed Regions
RTO                Railway Transport Organization
Ss & TT            Signalling and Telecoumunications
SDK                Social Accounting Service
I/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins since July 12,
1973. Its parity is revieved frequently to ensure maintenance of
external competitiveness.
2/ Period Average.



FO  OFFICL US ONLY
Yuegoslavia
Sixth -Railway Project
loan and -Project Summary
Borrowers:           Four Railvay Transport Organizations (RTOs) in the
Socialist Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia,
Serbia and the Socialist Autonomous Province of
Vojvodina. The Community of Yuigoslav Railways (CYR)
would also sign the Loan Agreement as coordinator for the
administration of the loan, including procurement, and
the technical assistance and training elements. The loan
would be apportioned among the four borrowers according
to an agreed allocation.
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:              $110 million, including capitalized front end fee.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year grace
period, with interest at standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and-Description    The project comprises the 1983-86 slice of Part A of the
four participating RTOs' 1981-86 investment plans. The
principal objectives of the project are to: (i)
strengthen the four participating RTOs to enable them to
compete effectively by improving productivity and quality
of service; (ii) further strengthen project management
and the preparation and implementation of sound
operational and action plans; and (iii) put the railways
on the path towards financial viability through tariff
revenues. On the recommendation of the Bank, the
investment plans have been divided into two parts; Part
A consisting of investments which are to proceed as
scheduled and which comprise the project; and Part B
containing items which would be carried out only after
their technical and economic justification has been
demonstrated to the satisiaction of the Borrower and the
Bank. The principal components of the project are: (i)
track overhaul; (ii) procurement of traction and rolling
stock; (iii) installation of modern signalliag and
telecommunications; (ivi electrification; (v)
reconstruction of stations; (vi) integrated transport
facilities; and (vii) training and technical assistance.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duts. Its contents may not otherwse be discloed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost 1/                                  -     US million
Local   Foreign   Total
Completion of 1976-80 Plan                        19.0      15.1     34.1
Track Overhaul and Line Reconstruction           1.23.4    101.2    224.6
Signalling and Telecommunications                 15.5     27.0      42.5
Electrification                                   17.8      18.5     36.3
Reconstruction of Station and Junctions           14.5    10.6    25.1
Traction and Rolling Stock                       123.2    127.0    250.2
Integrated Transport                              14.8     12.2     27.0
Miscellaneous                                     47.2      18.4     65.6
Technical Assistance and Training                  0.1      0.4       0.5
Contingencies                                    375.5    330.4    705.9
Physical                                        24.4     19.2     43.6
Price                                           61.3     56.3    117.6
Total 2/                      461.2    405.9    867.1
Financing Plan
Sources of Funds                      US$ million            Percent
Internal Resources                       335.0                  38
Grants                                    78.1                   9
Loans                                    169.2                   20
Suppliers' Credits                       174.8                  20
Bank Loan                                110.0                  13
Total                   867.1                  100
Estimated Disbursements (including frout-end fee)
Calendar Year     1984     1985      1986     1987
Annual            28.6     31.9      29.7     19.8
Cumulative        28.6     60.5      90.2    110.0
Estimated -Rate of Return: 19 percent
1/ Costs are based on December 1982 price levels.
2/ Including import duties and taxes.



- iii -
benefits and Risks:
Through the capital overhaul components of the project the
railway will benefit from reductions in track maintenance
costs as well as savings in equipment and rolling stock
through higher operating speeds. Improved signalling and
communications will also raise operating speeds, thereby
improving equipment utilization and productivity, while
electrification will reduce operating costs on heavily
tratficked lines. Investments in traction and rolling
stock are based on operational plans which are closely tied
to traffic forecasts and are adjusted on a rolling plan
basis. All project components show acceptable first year
benefits and are therefore justified on existing traffic
levels. The proposed project is free from any significant
risk.
Staff Appraisal    Yugoslavia;  Sixth Railway Project (Report No. 4335-YU)
keport           dated June 29, 1983



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORI AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO
FOUR YUGOSLAV RAILiAY TRANSPORT ORGANIZATIONS
'WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA FOR A
SIXTH RAILIVAYS PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to four Railway Transport Organizations (the borrowers) in the
Socialist Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Serbia and the
Socialist Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, with the guarantee of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of $110
million to help finance part of the foreign exchange cost of a sixth
railway project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three
years of grace, with interest at the standard variable interest rate. In
addition to the Bank and the four borrowers, the loan agreement would be
signed by the agency coordinating the project execution, the Cosmunity of
Yugoslav Railways (CYR), which would also act as the channel for
disbursement, procurement, and repayment of the loan. The European
Investment bank and Eurofima, a financing body of the European railway
enterprises which finances rolling stock requirements for member
enterprises including CYR, are co-financing the project with loans in the
equivalent amount of about $20 and $83 million, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report
Yugoslavia; Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (3954-YU) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 2, 1982. Basic data on
the economy are given in Annex I.
A. Institutional Setting
3.       Thb. social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions, plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector predominantly consists of peasant
farms and small enterprises. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. Responsibility for
important social and economic decisions has increasingly shifted from the
federal level to the republics, autonomous provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives over production decisions
has been increased by a restructuring of all economic organizations into
legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which
are the smallest units producing a marketable output.



4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called social
compacts and self-management agreements, enable the participation of all
economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while
maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. These
instruments are used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal
policy measures, particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and
employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to establish, through a set of social compacts, a national conseu.us on the
major medium-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including
government bodies. Dnce consistency is achieved, economic units enter into
medium-term agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In
case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at
the relevant level are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary
basis.
B. Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate
of about 62 in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated to be US$2,790 at 1981
market prices. 1/ The past three decades have also witnessed the growing
integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981
merchandise exports and imports grew by around 62 and 8Z per annum in real
terms, respectively. However, Yugoslavia's export performance to the
industrial market economies has showed increasing weakness over the past
decade, particularly since 19.?
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita output, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference in
per capita output between the most developed region in the country,
Slovenia, and the least developad, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. These disparities
reflect several factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity
agriculture in the LDR, their higher dependency ratios and their higher
population growth rates, which averaged 1.22 annually during 1971-81.
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



Since 1965 concessionary investment credits have been granted to the LDR
through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less
Developed Regions. In addition, the Federal budget provides supplementary
resources for social sector expenditures in the LDR. Together, these
resources account for about 10% of the social product of the LDR.
8.       Since 1954, employment in the modern social sector has increased
by around 4Z per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These
differentials have resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
there were about 1.1 million external migrants. Since 1973, however, this
trend has been reversed, and returning migrants have added to the pressure
on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have
risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1982. 1/ The incidence
of unemployment is highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged
from 29% in Kosovo to 22 in Slovenia.
C. Recent Economic Developments
9.       Despite an impressive record of economic and social development
since world 'War II, Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult
economic situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic
liberalization in 1965. In many respects the difficulties facing
Yugoslavia are similar to those facing most middle income developing
countries: higher oil prices and interest rates, sluggish world trade and
more difficult access to international commercial bank credit. The
severity of Yugoslavia's economic problems, however, also reflects
structural deficiencies in the pattern of Yugoslav development which became
increasingly apparent in the seventies. In response the Government has
introduced a series of stabilization measures since 1980. The main
elements of the stabilization program introduced thus far have been
restrictive monetary and fiscal policies to curb investment and reduce
inflationary pressure, and the more active use of exchange rate policies to
encourage exports. At the same time, imports have been scaled back in line
with the revenues accruing from export earnings and more limited foreign
borrowing. Yug3slavia's stabilization efforts are being supported by the
IMF in the foru a three-year SDR 1,662 million standby arrangement in
effect since January 1981.
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to the total resident labor force was about
9% in 1982.



- 4 -
10.      As a result of its stabilization program, Yugoslavia succeeded in
reducing its current account deficit from $3.7 billion in 1979 to $0.9
billinn in 1981. Underlying this improvement was a strong surge in
merchandise exports which increased in volume by 11% in 1980 and 8% in
1981. At the same time, merchandise import volumes were reduced by 142 in
1980 and 12X in 1981. In 1982, however, exports increased by less then one
percent in value over the previous year, indicatiun  negative real growth.
Performance ot invisibles in 1982 was also below expectations. The
Yugoslav authorities responded by devaluing the dinar (by 492 against the
dollar during 1982) and by further cuts in imports (the value of
merchandise imports in 1982 declined by 8.22). As a result of these
efforts the current account deficit was further reduced, to an estimated
$0.5 billion in 1982. While every effort is being made to isolate
important domestic producers (and exporters in particular) from the effects
of the import restrictions, the import squeeze is continuing to cause
difficulties for Yugoslav enterprises.
11.      Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDP grew by 4.2Z. In both 1980 and 1981 GDP growth is estimated at 2.22.
The latest available estimates indicate that GDP growth declined by 1X in
1982. This reduction in growth is partly a result of the stabilization
measures, but is also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and
manutacturing output has been particularly affected. There have been
marked fluctuations in agricultural output mainly due to climatic factors.
After stagnating in 1980 and 1981, agricultural output increased by 52 in
1982 .Fixed investment has also fallen markedly in the past three years.
Whereas fixed investment increased at an average rate of 9.52 between 1975
and 1979, it declined by 6.0% per year in 1979-82. Despite these slowdowns
in investment and economic growth, Yugoslavia has been remarkably
successful in maintaining a fast pace of job creation in the social
sector. Social sector employment increased by 3.22 in 1980, 2.9% in 1981
and 2.3% in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growth has been fastest
in the LDR where the incidence of unemployment is more severe.
12.      One ot the major aims of the stabilization program has been to
reduce the rate ot inflation, which increased from 13% in 1978 to 22% in
1979. However, despite significant declines in investment and real
comestic demand, inflationary pressures have continued. In 1980 and 1981
inflation accelerated to 30% and 38% respectively. In an effort to bring
inflation under control, the authorities introduced temporary price
ceilings on a wide range of goods on July 31, 1982. This policy met with
only limitea success, however, and inflation during 1982 was 32%. The
persistence of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. The
ettorts of the authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to
promote more efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural
production and rationalize energy use have all put upward pressure on the
price level. The increase in international prices since 1979 and the
cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation of the dinar
considerably increased domestic production costs. Nominal personal income



-5-
growth has also proved difficult t-. control. The Government's intention is
to reduce the rate of inflation to 202 during 1983. Given the likely
inflationary effects of the depreciation of the dinar and mounting pressure
from workers t- reverse the decline in real wages (which have fdllen by 17%
in real terms since 1979), any reduction in the inflation rate below the
1982 level should be considered a significant achievement.
13.      Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in
international interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from
$0.8 billion in 1979 to an estimated $1.9 billion in 1982. Principal
repayments on medium- and long-term debt were an estimated $1.9 billion in
1982. While thxere is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's
adjustment efforts, the commercial banks have tended to zdopt a cautious
position toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to
adverse developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity
problems experienced by some Yugoslav banks.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on economic growth, particularly
the constraints on external borrowing, the plan is being significantly
revised. The main goal of economic policy is to put the balance of
payments on a secure footing and to ensure stable and sustained growth
during the 1986-90 plan period. For the next few years, however, the
authorities expect to see continued slow growth in social product and even
slower growth in domestic expenditure to allow resources to be released for
exports, with the aim of achieving a current account surplus before the end
of the pleil period. This strategy also implies continued reductions in the
rate of fixed capital formation. Within the reduced investment program,
the priorities stressed are export promotion, the development of domestic
energy sources and raw materials. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
Nonproductive investment is to be cut back sharply.
15.      Since slower growth will make it more difficult for the social
sector to gene. te additional employment at the pace of the past, emphasis
is being laid on the development of labor intensive activities, including
small-scale enterprises and the increased use of shift work. Finally, the
reduction of regional disparities remains a major objective of Yugoslavia's
economic planning. Financial transfers between regions will play an
important role in this process, with particular stress on encouraging
social sector enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make
direct investments in the LDR. The initial experience with such joint
ventures is encouraging and a substantial number of such projects have been
launched. They could make a significant contribution to the overall
efficiency of productior. within the LDR by facilitating the transfer of
technological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.



-6-
Creditworthiness
16.      Conimercial financial crecits to Yugoslavia have declined
significantly and most recent credits have been orgar.ized on a bilateral
intergovernmental basis. Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows
aeclinea from $4.2 billion in 1980 to an estimated $2.0 billion in 1982.
7,tal mecium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated
at about $16.3 bill.on at the end of 1982 while short-term debt at the end
of December 1982 stood at about $1.8 billion. While Yugoslavia was able to
increase its short-term borrowing by about $1 billion during the 1979-81
period, it was unable to roll all of this debt over during 1982 and
outstanding short-term debt declined by approximately $500 million over the
course of the year. During 1982 there was a substantial decline in foreign
exchange reserves which at the end of that year amounted to $1.7 billion,
or roughly one month of imports of goods and services.
17.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in past
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of
suppliers' credits. The Iorld Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia.  Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances, the debt
service ratio averaged 16% between 1976 and 1981, while the debt service
ratio in convertible currencies averaged 19X over the same period. In 1982
the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 22 percent reflecting
the increase in interest payments on floating rate debts and the decline in
the value of exports. Similarly the estimated debt service ratio on
convertible currency debts rose to 27 percent. A major effort, involving
some OECD countries, international commercial banks and the IMF, has been
initiated to assist Yugoslavia in maintaining an orderly debt repayment.
Agreement has now been reached in principle on a total foreign assistance
package amounting to approximately $6 billion. Although Yugoslavia's
liquiaity situation may remain ditficult in the near term, the aggregate
debt service ratio is expected to decline somewhat over the next few
years. Given it's past debt service record, pragmatism, and demonstrated
capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these are called
tor, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank
lending.



PAkl 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS lb YUGOSLAVlA 1/
18.      The proposed project would be the 80th loan by the Bank to
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,814.46 million.2/ Of this, approximately
33 percent ($1,248 million) has been for 23 operations in the
transportation sector -- 12 tor highways, 7 for railways, one of which was
related to earthquake rehabilitation, and one each for a natural gas
pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for port development. Historically,
bank lending has concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to
the transportation loans, six power loans, one telecommunications loan,
three water supply and sewerage and three multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). In recent years, Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector for which thirteen
operations, totalling $772 million (about 22 percent of the total) have
been made. Twenty-one loans amounting to $475 million (about 13 percent of
the total) have also been made for industry. Two loans have been made for
tourism and a first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved in
1976.
19.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance deteriorated somewhat in
1981 largely due to a shortage of local funds arising from financial
constraints. hollowing an implementation review of the whole loan
porttolio with Borrowers in the fall ot 1981, performance has markedly
improved in 1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares
most tavorably with Bank-wide and regional averages and with most other
countries ot a similar per capita income. Annex II contains a summary
statement of bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to; (i) increase exports and improve the
etticiency of import substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with tCie more limited
investment resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets;
and (iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDR. Not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
continues to be toward the development-of the LDR. Underpinning this
orientation are economic surveys of the tour LDRs undertaken by the Bank,
intensitied Bank assistance in project formulation, and ongoing economic
and sector analysis.
1/ Part I1 of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
keport and Recommendation of the President for the Kosovo Regional
Development Project (Report No. P-3575-YU) of April 22, 1983.
2/ The 79th loan would be tl,e Structural Adjustment Loan (US$275 million)
which is scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors on
June 28, 1983.



21.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDk is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in
the 1981-85 Development Plan.   As a result, over the past five ysars,
almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through operations
for transportation, power, agricultural development and industrial credit.
In the next few years significant Bank lending to the LDR through similar
perations is expected to continue.
22.      Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, the process of
evolving acceptable solucions to problems is cumbersome. The Bank has
thererore put increased emphasis on fostering coordination, particularly
in the transport and energy sectcrs where significant progress has been
acnieved. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objective. The Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areas
where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination impact has
most potential.
23.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped to attract additional sources of credit through co-financing
arrangements and through assisting in the establishment of new banking
relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank, however, is the major source of
long-term external capital and is expected to remain so in the near
future.  In its future lending to Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put
increased emphasis on co-financing, recognizing, however, commercial market
constraints that Yugoslavia is facing.
24.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about
9.0 percent of its total debt outsEanding and disbursed and this ratio is
expected to remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 5.4 percent in 1981 and is projected to be about
6 percent by 1986.
25.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then, IFC
has made 19 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1983, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $327.5 million gross and ¢178.7 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial
resources in addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give
special, although not exclusive, emphasis to the LDRs.



- 9 -
PART III - THE TRANSPrRT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. The Transport System
26.      The transport system in Yugoslavia has been largely shaped by the
cotntry's topography. The principal road and rail links follow the fertile
Sava and Danube flood plains on a northwest to southeast alignment. In
contrast, the southern mountains and the coastal Karst plateau present a
major barrier to overland transport, and improvements to transport
infrastructure in these areas have been difficult and costly.  The
transport network, historically, has been and continues to be an important
crossroads for European traffic. In addition to linking the major areas of
economic activitiy within the country, the main northwest-southeast road
and rail links also serve a growing demand for international traffic
between Europe ana the Middle East. Other key routes serve traffic between
Northern and Central Europe and the Mediterranean coastal areas. A major
objective of Yugoslavia's transport sector development in recent years has
been the opening up of the LDRs to strengthen their integration with the
rest of the country, and accelerate their economic development based on
their natural resources.
27.      The diversified network consists of 110,000 km. of roads, 9,400
km. ot rail lines, 7 main ports, 15 airports (10 handling international
traffic) and a sizable network of inland waterways, including the Danube.
Roads ana railways carry about 902 of total traffic. Oil and gas pipelines
have come into increasing use in recent years.
28.      Yugoslavia's significant growth of industry and services over the
last 20 years produced a demand for increased transportation facilities.
Over the last two decades total freight traffic grew at the rate of about
5% per annum and passenger traffic (including private car transport which
grew much faster) by about 6.1% per annum; highway traffic, both freight
and passenger, has increased more rapidly than rail traffic. Although road
transport is now the dominant carrier, the role of the railways is crucial
as the main carrier of bulk materials and of 35% of all domestic freight
transport. River traffic, about 9% of the total, has maintained a
competitive position and ports, now handling about 25 million tons per
annum, have doubled their capacity over the last 20 years. In line with
the overall decline in economic activity during 1980-82, freight and
passenger traffic growth were only about 32 and 1%, respectively, during
that period. Compelled by the energy crisis and the need to reduce the
import bill for energy, the Covernment is emphasizing further development
of the railway system with its greater reliance on domestic energy sources,
largely electricity based on domestic coal. To reduce the use of imported
oil the government has also imposed temporary restrictions on road
transport through rationing of gasoline and diesel fuel. In view of these
trends as well as the continued demand for long-distance bulk commodity
flows, rail freight is expected to increase by about 3% per year and
passenger traffic by about 22 per year through 1986, with slightly lower
growth rates in the longer term.



- 10 -
29.      Modernization and strengthening of the railway system is a major
priority in the transport sector at present. Much needed improvements in
the road network of the country, particular y of the Trans-Yugoslav
Highway, which are necessary to handle efficiently even the existing volume
of road transport, is another major priority in the transport sector. The
Bank is preparing, in addition to the proposed railway project, a project
to tinance some of the critical needs in the road transport sector.
B. Transport Policy Planning and Coordination
30.      Principal governmental responsibility for transport was
transferred during the late 1960's from Federal to Republican and
ProvincialV authorities. The Federal Secretariat for Transport was
replaced in 1975 by a Federal Committee for Transport and Communications
(FCTC), whose Chairman and Vice Chairman are Federal officials, and whose
other members are the regional officials responsible for transport. This
committee has a largely coordinating function. Much of governmental
responsibility has been transferred to Communities of Interest (COIs),
which consist of one or more transport enterprises and their users.
31.      In late 1976, with a view to creating the necessary conditions for
integrated developmeut of transport, the Federation and the regions
mutually agreed to establish a long-term transport policy for the country.
Considerable progress has been made and a number of Social Agreements on
the various aspects of future transport policy have been concluded. The
Government's principal objectives for the transport sector are:  (i) to
build up a transport infrastructure in support of the developments taking
place in other sectors of the econom?; (ii) to develop the various modes or
transport as an integrated network and in such proportions and combinations
as will meet the total needs of the economy at minimum cost to the
community; (iii) to open up less-developed regions and foster
interdependence and economic integration of the regions of the country;
(iv) to provide the national network with adequate facilities for
connection to the networks of neighboring countries; and (v) to rationalize
the use of energy in transportation and reduce the negative effects of
transportation on environment. In the light of these objectives, the use
of rail and water transport is to be encouraged for long and medium
distance commodity hauls and emphasis is placed on the public
transportation sector as compared to transport on own account.
32.      In supporting transport infrastructure development, the Bank has
emphasized the need for improving coordination between subsectors at
regional and national levels, as well as the need for developing adequate
institutions and an appropriate policy framework. At the national level,
the Bank has encouraged and supported the establishment and strengthening
of important advisory and coordinating institutions, including FCTC which
oversees the total transport picture in Yugoslavia, the Council of
I/ From hereon the term "region" will be used to denote the terms
toRepublics" and "Provinces".



- 11 -
Republican and Provincial Roads Organization which deals with nationwide
standardization of engineering and design criteria, and the Community of
Yugoslav Railways (CYR) which deals with overall issues of the railways.
33.      Through the vehicle of the Ei3hth Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU),
two special studies -- A Rail Costs Study and a Road User Charges Study -
have provided a basis for greater intermodal efficiency as well as the more
eccnomic utilization of transport facilities.   The purpose of the rail
costs study was to formulate a unitorm costing system for all RTOs which
would make available to the respective RTO management the data which is
necessary for the continuing analysis, comparison and control of costs.
The study was also to provide information for the fixing of freight rates
and passenger fares and for a comparison of costs with different transport
modes. The study was carried out by Yugoslav consultants and was completed
in 1979, but a consensus by all organizations on this complex and critical
matter was only reached in 1981. A contract was signed in May 1982 between
CYk and the consultants to introduce and test the system at RTO Belgrade.
The system is to be tested and installed in RTO Belgrade during 1983 to be
followed, it satisfactory, by implementation at the other Organizations in
1984.
Previous Bank Loans for Transport
34-      The Bank has made 23 loans, totallirg $1,248 million equivalent
for the Yugoslav transport sector; seven of these, totalling $396 million
were for the railway sector: five for modernization investments; one for
construction of the Belgrade-Bar line; and one for reconstruction of
earthquake damage in Montenegro. Delays, largely due to cost overruns,
have been encountered, but good progress in improved planning and execution
and in strengthening the coordinating role of CYR has been achieved. No
major problems have been encountered with the eleven highway subsector
loans and the earthquake reconstruction project totalling $650 million. A
further highway project is under preparation to improve sections of the
Trans-Yugoslav highway, the major road link between Western Europe, Greece,
Turkey and the Middle East, as well as providing assistance in some lesser
developed areas for improvements in the primary highway network. A $44
million loan for the expansion of the Port of Bar (1060-YU, 1974) was
nearly completed, when the port was severely damaged by the 1979
earthquake. Rehabilitation is now proceeding through the $50 million
Earthquake Rehabilitation Loan (1768-YU, 1979). Two loans, totalling $108
million were made for pipelines. The oil pipeline project was successfully
completed in 1981 and the gas pipeline, although delayed by structural and
implementation problems, is expected to be completed in early 1984.
C. The Railway Subsector
Organization
35.      The railway system in Yugoslavia consists of eight independent
RTOs,!J each serviig one of Yugoslavia's eight regions.  The four RTOs
participating in the proposed project are RTOs Belgrade, Novi Sad, Sarajevo
and Skopje serving respectively Serbia, Vojvodina, Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Macedonia, the last two of which belong to the LDR. These four RTOs have a



- 12 -
route length of about 5,060 km. and in 1981 carried 51% in volume of the
country's rail traffic. The four RTOs vary considerably in size, the
largest being RTU Belgrade with a route length of about 1,900 km. and
carrying 21% of total railway traffic, the smallest being RTO Skopje with a
route length of about 670 km. carrying only 3% of total traffic.
36.      Although each RTO ope,ates independently, CYR acts effectively as
an agency of the RTOs, the coordinating agency responsible for joint
operations, timetables, wagon utilization, revenue distribution, the
setting of safety and technical standards, and provides technical
assistance, especially to the smaller aztd less developed RTOs. CYR also
fultills a very useful planning function. As in previous loans, CYR will
have an important role in the sixth project in terms of administering
technical assistance for the RTOs and coordinating procurement and
disbursement. It will be a signatory to the Loan Agreement.
37.      Each RTO consists of an association of Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOAL). BOALs engaged on purely railwav activities must
by law join together in the RTO, while BOALs covering activities only
partly related to the railways have a looser form of association and are
not part ot the RTO. A typical RIO has a director general and three to
five assistant directors general. ?ianagement, appointed by and responsible
to a workers' council, has always been technically competent in traditional
railway disciplines and has been strengthened in recent years in planning
and marketing. however, considerable disparity exists in management
strength and capability between the old established RTOs and certain of the
small and newer RTOs which became operational in 1978.
Staffing
38.      Between 1976 and 1981 the four RIOs reduced staff by some 9,400 to
a-bout 58,100, mainly due to reorganization and to closure of about 550 km
ot uneconomic lines. Despite the increase in traffic which is forecast,
requiring more staff in certain sections, the RTOs intend to achieve a
further overall net reduction of about 1,000 staff by 1986. Reductions
will come chiefly as a result of the installation of modern signalling
equipment and trom track overhaul where new long-welded rails and
mechanical equipment will give rise to manpower savings. The staffing and
targeted manpower savings are reflected in manpower plans for each RTO,
which are subject to an annual review. Productivity, measured as traffic
units (ton per km plus passenger kilometer) per employee, is forecast to
increase by 18% over the period 1981-86. Each RTO agreed to use its best
etforts to achieve the manpower targets and to review as part of its Action
Plan its manpower plans at least annually (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
1/ Some ot the RTOs were previously called Railway Transport Enterprises
(RTEs).



- 13 -
Communities of Interest and Compensation Payments
39.      In each region a COI comprising a RTO and its users has been
established with Tesponsihility for the development and implementation of
railway policies including traffic, financing and investment plar.s. The
COIs form a direct link between the railways and the economy and are
concerned with the extent, the efficiency and the cost of the service
rendered by the railways. This oversight function derives from the fact
that in the Yugoslav system the COIs are above both the market mechanism
and the state as regulators of economic activities. Thus, the COIs are in
charge of rail policy, planning and financing decisions of a type that in
most other countries would be taken by the central government as the owner
of the railways. The COIs, for example, examine and agree on rail
investment programs, financing arrangements and how operating deficits are
to be covered. Railway freight rates are approved by the Federal Community
for Prices and passenger fares by the regional governments. FCTC and CYR
play an important advisory role in preparing the Social Compacts or
agreements which set railway prices.
40.      The "enterprise income" (i.e. revenues earned from freight tariffs
and passenger fares) of every RTO is less than "operating expenses" (i.e.
wages, materials cost and depreciation) and interest payments. For the
four participating RTOs taken together, tariff revenues in 1981 covered 83%
of operating expenses, or 79Z when interest charges are included. The
operating deficits result partly from govqrnmental decisions as to the
level and structure of railway prices, the imposition of certain public
service obligations on the railways, and the retention of excess staff.
The operating deficits became substantial only after the 1973 oil price
increase, since tariff increases were held in check as an anti-inflationary
measure.
41.      In order to fill the gap between tariff-generated revenues and
operating expenses caused by the Federal and regional governments denying
or only partially approving RTOs' tariff increase requests, members of COIs
raise a levy on themselves. This levy, called a compensation payment, is
based on the "enterprise income" of COI members and not the actual costs
incurred by the RTO for carrying traffic on their behalf. Compensation
payments do not relate to the costs of moving traffic on specific routes
within and among the RTOs and do not separate out those lines or traffics
which are or, with proper pricing, could be commercially viable from those
that are being subsidized to carry traffic that might otherwise move by
more economic modes. Compensation payments form a contractual obligation
and are forecasted for three to five years ahead, subject to annual review
in the light of cost and traffic experience. The rate of levy adopted
varies from region to region. In Serbia it is a flat 1.75% on the
"enterprise income" of the BOALs and other working communities making up
the COI while in Slovenia it is 3.6% on "small" railway user enterprises
and 1.5% on "big" railway user enterprises.



- 14 -
42.      The compensation payments are an effort to devise a formula that
will serve three purposes. First, to avoid protracted annual disputes
between the railuays, users and Government authorities about the level of
subsidy to be paid by having a simple, agreed formula. Second, to
facilitate financial planning by the railway and COI members by giving
railway management some degree of certainty about future income and the
members about future contributions. And, third, to induce some sense of
efficiency and service to the public in railway management. In return for
the compensation subsidy, the railvays are expected to meet agreed
productivity and service level standards; if these are not achieved or
traffic is below expected, compensation is reduced. If a financial deficit
exists after payment of compensation, the RTO has to borrow from local
banks or the region's Reserve Fund. In this case, the RTO has to shov that
it has tried to curb internal expenditures by, for example, saving on
materials and, in the final analysis, on the personal incomes of the staff.
43.      An important factor in the total amount of compensation payments
is that enterprises in the Yugoslav socio-economic system are expected to
retain surplus workers until alternative work becomes available and to pay
them at least a minimum wage. Programs for railway staff redeployment
anci/or reductions have generally been based on natural attrition, early
re-.irement schemes and staff retraining. Major staff reductions would not
be possible since unemployment has been rising and is widespread following
the slow-down in economic growth and the return of many Yugoslav workers
from Western Europe. Under these circumstances, at least part of the
compensation payments could be considered as a form of unemployment
compensation being funded by the rest of society although this is not an
explicitly stated objective.
44.      However, given that:
- rail tariffs, in accordance with the basic principle for
determining all other prices, should be based on cost;
- compensation payment is inconsistent with this general pricing
principle;
- compensation payment levels are becomirg onerous burdens on the
other enterprises which themselves are having to adjust to
difficult economic conditions; and
- compensation payment involves hidden cross-subsidies among
commodities, routes and enterprises with resulting demand
distortions,
the Federal authorities are seeking to develop and have the railways
implement a more rational railway pricing policy which would result in
gradual elimination of compensation payments. The aim of the Federal
authorities is that the RTOs should cover the cost of "simple reproduction"
(i.e., operations, maintenance and renewal) and an agreed portion of
resources needed for modernization and capacity expansion from
their revenues. Tariff increases approved in recent years have been lower



- 15 -
than inflation, which in turn has resulted in increased compensation
payments. Accordingly, the Bank is strongly supporting the early
introduction of better railway costing and the Borrowers and the Government
agreed to a program of rail price increases that is aimed at eliminating
compensation payments at all RTOs, i.e. including those not included under
the proposed project, in a phased approach (see para. 64 below).
Pertormance under Previous Railway Projects
45.      As statea above (para. 34), the Bank has made seven loana Lo the
lugoslav Railways since 1963, totalling $396 million. The Second Railway
Project (Loan 395-YU) was a very ambitious project covering electrification
of main lines, signalling and telecommunications and construction or
modernization of six major marshalling yards. The OED Project Evaluation
Report (Report No. 563 of November 9, 1974) was critical of the size and
complexity of the project and inadequate project preparation and
recommended the inclusion in future projects of action plans covering
technical, financial and institutional aspects. The inclusion of
comprehensive action plans has been a feature of both the Fourth and Fifth
kailway Projects with encouraging results. Although the Third and Fourth
Projects (Loans 531 and 1026-YU) also experienced delays and financing
problems, rail capacities and efficiency have increased and there has been
gooa progress in improving investment planning and execution and in
strengthening CYk's coordinating role.
46.      The Fitth Project (Loan 1534-YU) included works in all eight RTOs
and assisted track overhaul and electrification as part of the railways
1976-80 investment plan as well as technical assistance and training.
Physical progress under the project has been satisfactory; 98% of the loan
proceeds are disbursed and the loan will be closed as of June 30, 1983, one
year after the original closing date. Wihile operational efficiency has
improved, difficulties have arisen in relation to the financial covenants
which required the railways to reduce compensation payments (see para. 63)
and increase the proportion of tariff revenues. Under the proposed
project, a revised plan for reducing compensation payments has been agreed
(see para. 64).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
47.      The proposed project will comprise tne 1983-86 slice of Part A of
the four participating RTOs' 1981-86 investment plans. Project investments
woula total about Din. 76.3 billion ($867.1 million) with a foreign
exchange component of $405.9 million.



- 16 -
48.      The principal objective of the Plans is to continue modernization
ot railway facilities to further improve efficiency and capacity and thus
enhance the role of railways in a competitive transport market as the
principal carrier of bulk materials. The Investment Plans agreed with the
Bank amount to about 30% less than the railways' original proposals, which
were reducea to bring them more in line with expected financing resources,
and to focus on the most pressing needs and investments, taking into
account possible improvements in productivity. On the recommendation of
the Bank, the Plans have been divided into two parts; Part A cons;sting of
investments which are to proceed as scheduled and Part B containing items
which would be carried out only after their technical and economic
justitication has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Borrowers
ana the bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c)). Approval of Investment and
Financing Plans adopted for each Borrower will be a condition of
ettectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (b)). Also, the
kTOs agreed to review their Investment and Financing Plans annually with
CYR, taking into account traffic results and trends and forward them,
through CYR, to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(b).
49.      The project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project Summary
at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the report
"Staff Appraisal of a Sixth Railway Project," No. 4335-YU, dated June 29,
1983, was appraised in March 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington
trom May 9-20, 1983. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Zoran Nastic,
President, hanaging Board, CYR and included representatives from the four
participating RTOs, CYR and the Federal Government. Annex III summarizes
key events leading to Board presentation, special actions needed for
project implementation and the special conditions provided for in the Loan
Agreement.
50.      Ihe project is aimed at: (i) strengthening the four participating
kTOs to enable them to compete effectively in a competitive market by
improving productivity and quality of service; (ii) further strengthening
of project management and the preparation and implementation of sound
operational and action plans; and (iii) restoring the railways to viability
through tariff revenues.  The principal components are:  (i) track
overhaul; (ii) procurement of traction and rolling stock; (iii)
installation of modern signalling and telecommunications; (iv)
electritication; (v) reconstruction of stations; (vi) integrated transport
facilities; and (vii) training and technical assistance.
51.      Capital Overhaul.  About 32% of the project cost is related to
capital overhaul and reconstruction of about 700 km. of worn-out track
which will permit increased axle loads and speeds.
52.      Traction and Rolling Stock.  Planned procurement of traction and
rolling stock is based on operational plans which take into account
torecast increases in operational efficiency. The planned acquisitions
represent 34% of the total project cost and include about 4,270 freight
wagons, 2 diesel locomotives, 13 electric locomotives, 38 diesel shunters,
6 electric and 8 niesel motor trains, 67 passenger coaches, 4 sleepers, as
well as spare parts for locomotives.



- 17 -
53.      Signalling and Telecommunications.  Installation of signalling and
telecommunications (SS and TT) represent 6Z of the project total.  Obsolete
mechanical signalling systems which fall below modern safety standards will
be replaced on 143 km. of lines by modcrn equipment, including automatic
block and automatic train stopping. Other works on SS and TT are
improvements of existing systems in conjunction with the electrification of
lines. To increase capacity by allowing faster and more punctual operation
of trains, a centralized traffic control system will be installed for one
line in Macedonia.   In total, about 390 km of lines will benefit from the
above works.
54.      Electrification.  About 52 of the project would provide for
electrification of about 375 km of lines which would complete the
electrification of the basic netvwck of RTO Sarajevo and would electrify
the last link in the main Trans-Yugoslav iice from Italy and Austria in the
north to Greece and Turkey "n the South.  As well as improving line
capacity, these works wili permit more standardization and rationalization
of operations on the networ'. of main lines with consequent reduction in
operating costs.
55.      Reconstruction of Stations and Junctions.  About 3Z of project
costs are for reconstruction of stations and junctions with the objective
of increasing capacity. Major expenditures will be on renewal a"d
extension of tracks, points and platfo-v.s.
56.      Integrated Transport.  Investment for integrated transport is
coordinated through national and regional planning comittees. About 42 of
project expenditures will be on works and equipment for integrated
transport, including container handling equipment, cranes, forklifts and
pallets. Civil works will be mainly for track and access roads in
integrated transport centers.
57.      Training and Technical Assistance.  A study for the improvement of
electric locomotive maintenance and operation formed part of the Fifth
Railway Project (Loan 1534-YU) and it is expected that the final report
will be available in October 1983. Provision is made under the proposed
loan for the results of this study to be followed up, and for consultancy
assistance in the implementation of its recommendations.
58.      The project also provides for a study of methods adopted by
railways in other European countries for the increase of mainline speeds by
improvements in fixed installations, in traction and rolling stock, and in
timetabling. These two studies are expected to require about 22 man-months
ot consultancy assistance. Finally the project includes assistance in
staff training; particularly in the maintenance of modern signalling and
telecommunications including provision of training equipment.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
59.      Cost estimates were prepared by the RTOs; they are based on recent
experience with similar works, procurement of traction and rolling stock,



- 18 -
and feasibility studies. Of the estimated total project cost of about
$867.1 million about $406 million (47%) represents the foreign exchange
component. The project cost includes import duties and taxes. The cost of
consultant services has been estimated on the basis of about $12,000 per
man-mouth for foreign consultants (including salarv, costs, fees,
subsistence and international travel expenses) and about US$6,000
equivalent per man-month for local consultants for equivalent expenses
which is considered reasonable. All base cost estimates refer to December
1982 prices and physical contingencies of 10% have been included for all
.tems except for traction and rolling stock. Price contingencies when
calculated in US$ were estimated assuming annual price increases of 8.0%
for 1983, 7.52 for 1984 and 7% for 1985 and 1986, and when calculated in
Dinars, 30% for 1983, 25% for 1984, 20% for 1985 and 15% for 1986. Cost
estimates have been so prepared as the Government intends to adjust the
value of the Dinar to compensate for differences in domestic and
international price movements. Details of the cost estimates are shown in
the Loan and Project Summary.
60.      The proposed Bank loan of $110 million (including $0.27 million to
cover front end fee) would represent about 132 of total project cost and
27% of the estimated foreign cost. The loan would be allocated in agreed
proportions between the four borrowing RTO's and would be for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate and would
be guaranteed by the Federal Government. The European Investment Bank
(EIB) and Eurofima 1/ will participate in the financing of the project's
foreign cost requirements with loans of about $20.0 million and $83.0
million equivalent, respectively. The borrowers would finance the balance
of the foreign cost of $193 million, most of which will be secured through
suppliers' credits, and all of the local cost of t461 million. Investment
plans and financing plans for each RTO were discussed and agreed at
negotiations. The approval of these plans by the Borrowers will be a
condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). Also, the
adoption of a decision or the provision of another appropriate assurance
whereby each of the regional governments would agree to make available to
the Borrowers funds required to complete financing of respective
investments against which Loan proceeds will be disbursed, will be a
condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(d)).
Implementation
61.      Each RTO will be responsible for executing its part of the
project. CYR will be responsible for administration of the loan, including
the coordination of procurement,and the technical assistance and training
elements. CYR agreed to maintain the capacity of the panel established for
administering the Fourth and Fifth Projects and CYR and the RTOs agreed to
1/ A financing body of the European railway enterprises which finances
rolling stock requirements for member enterprises including Yugoslav
railways.



- 19 -
engage consultants, in accordance with Bank guidelines, for technical
assistance and staff training, (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). Also the
RTOs will continue the system of project management established under the
Fourth and Fifth projects and will appoint project managers as needed to
implement interdependent works agreed between the RTOs and the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.07).
Action Plans
62.      Besides each RTO, its BOALs and COI, decisions concerning railways
may involve the Federal and regional Governments as well as organizations
such as the Chambers of Economy. This led, under the Fourth and Fifth
Railway Projects, to the establishment by CYR and each RTO of comprehensive
Action Plans which are an important instrument for reaching a comon
understanding by all concerned on objectives and responsibilities, and on
the measures and time required for their achievement. The Action Plans are
an important means of extending the RTOs' planning process. Their overall
objectives are to reduce cost, improve the quality of service and improve
the market position. They address themselves to organization, planning,
investments, marketing, productivity, information systems, finance,
government support and staff training. Each RTO specifies actions to be
taken to achieve agreed productivity, operational and financial targets.
Appropriately updated, these Action Plans have a continuing role to play in
the development of the STOs. As part of their Action Plans, the RTOs have
prepared Operational Plans to improve the utilization of their traction and
rolling stock and to serve as a basis for procurement, renewal and
scrapping of traction and rolling stock. CYR has prepared general plans
for the whole network covering signalling, telecommunications, data
processing and integrated transport. The RTOs agreed to implement their
Action Plans, including Operational Plans and review them at least annually
in collaboraticn with CYR (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06). The transmittal
to the Bank of the Action Plans (including the Operational Plans) as well
as their approval by the RTOs will be a condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(c)).
Financial Structure and Performance
63.      Financial performance of Yugoslav Railways in recent years has
been marked by tariff increases which have been insufficient to counter
growing inflation and compensation payments, intended to reduce as a
proportion of revenues, have increased. Of the four RTOs participating in
the project the proportion of operating expenditure covered by tariff
revenues in 1981 averaged 78% and varied from 72% in the case of RTO
Skopje, the smallest, to 99% in the case of RTO Sarajevo. Only in the case
of RTO Sarajevo did the proportion of costs covered by tariff revenues
reach the target agreed for 1980 under the Fifth Railway Project (Loan
1534-YU). This good performance by RTO Sarajevo resulted from a reduction
in operating costs in real terms of 19% during the 1978-80 project period,
due principally to closures of uneconomic lines and to staff reductions.
Smaller cost reductions were achieved at the other RTOs but higher
compensation payments were nevertheless necessary to offset the shortfall
in tariff revenues resulting from inadequate tariff increases.



- 20 -
64.      The Government has stated that tariffs will, in the future, play a
bigger role in revenues; and tariff policy is to be defined in a new
compact on railway pricing which is about to be concluded. Siccessive
tariff increases of 172 in March 1982, 172 in December 1982 and 152 in
February 1983 are an indication of the Government's determination to reduce
reliance on compensation payments and to follow a course leading to
viability through tariffs. As a condition of effectiveness of the loan the
RTOs agreed to raise tariffs by 10 plus the increase in the Industrial
Producer Price Index between January 1983 and the time such tariff increase
shall take effect, (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (a)). This tariff
increase is expected to take place by January, 1984. For each of the years
1985 through 1989 the RTOs agreed to raise tariffs by at least 62 more than
the rise in the Industrial Producer Price Index during the immediately
preceding twelve month period so as to ensure that compensation payments
will be reduced and ultimately eliminated at all RTOs (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.04(a)). The effect of such tariff increases, together with
forecast increases in productivity would be to reduce compensation payments
for the four RTOs from an estimated 25% of total revenues in 1982 to 10 in
1986 and would result in the phasing out of compensation payments at RTO
Sarajevo in 1987, at RTO Novi Sad in 1988 and at RTOs Belgrade and Skopje
in 1990. Also, the RTOs agreed not to incur debt beyond agreed debt
limitation ratios without consulting vith the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
5.05). In addition each RTO has agreed to use its best efforts to achieve
annual financial targets (operating ratio and working capital ratio) agreed
with the Bank, (Loan Agreement, Section 5.06).
Procurement and Disbursement
65.      Procurement for all goods proposed for Bank financing would be on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
procedures consistent with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Domestic
manufacturers will be accorded a preference of 152 or the equivalent to
custom duty, whichever is lower, for the supply of equipment. The proposed
loan would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign expenditures and 1002
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for track materials, equipment for
fixed installations for electrification and for signalling and
telecommunications and 1002 of foreign expenditures for spare parts for
locomotives and 10OZ of total expenditures for consultants services and
training. Consultants would be engaged in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the use of consultants.
Accounts and Auditing
66.      Accounts are well maintained by competent staff on a uniform
government prescribed basis. Fixed assets are revalued annually on a
replacement cost basis and depreciation rates are fixed at realistic
levels. The accounts of the RTOs and each of their BOALs are subject to
annual audit by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). The recent expansion
of the capacity of SDK will permit future audits to be expanded in scope



- 21 -
and the RTOs agreed that their accounts will be audited annually, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by SDK or another
competent independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank, and
that certified accounts and auditors' reports will be submitted to the Bank
within eight months of the end of each financial year (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.02).
Economic Justificatior and Risks
67.      During the period 1976-80, railway freight traffic grew at 4.5Z
per year, compared to only 1.42 during the period 1970-76. This upward
trend reflected the Government emphasis since the beginning of the 1976-80
plan on the development of a more efficient and competitive railway system,
a policy which followed from the energy crisis and the railways' lesser
reliance than road transport on imported fuel. During the same period, the
competitive position of the railway was also enhanced by steep increases in
oil prices and, more recently, by shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel for
road transport. Although total freight traffic growth has slackened in the
past two years as a result of the slump in the economy, the latter has been
felt more by road than by rail transport. The latest forecasts indicate an
average growth rate of 1.5% per year for industrial output through 1985
which implies a 2% per year increase for the commodities carried by rail.
However, rail traffic is likely to receive further impetus in the medium
term due to a combination of fuel shortages for road transport and the
Government's continued emphasis on the development of the railway. As a
result, the Government expects rail freight traffic to increase overall
during the current plan (1981-86) at about 3% per year, which is in line
with recent trends. Similarly, although rail passenger traffic has been
stagnant over the past decade, preliminary figures indicate that it has
jumped by 6 to 7% in 1982 due to the restrictions on road transport.
Continued increases in passenger traffic amounting to about 22 per year are
now expected through 1986, with the rate of increase returning to a more
normal level of around 12 in the longer term.
68.      Due to the successful institution building efforts in railway
planning initiated through previous Bank projects, the RTOs and CYR now
prepare operational plans and technical and economic feasibility studies
for all investment proposals. These studies, which include detailed
line-by-line traffic forecasts, are critically reviewed by the COI and are
a prerequisite for including projects in the regional and Federal
Investment Plans. Through this process and the need to balance investment
with available financial resources, the original railway plan was scaled
down by over 30% to form the present overall plan. The latter has since
been further divided into a core program of high priority investments under
Part A of the plan, with Part B (about 272) including other items of lower
priority.
69.      The main benefits of the investment plan will be felt in improved
operational efficiency and the ability of the railway to perform its role
in the transport market. As the main component of the program, capital



- 22 -
overhaul of main line track will provide substantial reductions in track
maintenance costs as well as savings in equipment and rolling stock through
ceereased wear ana tear and higher operating speeds. Improved signalling
anc telecommunications will also raise operating speeds, thereby improving
equipment utilization and productivity, while electrification will reduce
operating costs on heavily trafficked lines in areas of difficult terrain.
Investments in traction and rolling stock are mainly for replacement and
are closely tied to traffic forecasts, with adjustments being made on a
rolling plan basis. About 5Z of Part A of the plan is ongoing inzestment,
while a further 75% is supported by new feasibility studies which indicate
high economic returns. The remaining 20% of the plan is comprised of
miscellaneous items for which it is difficult to quantify direct benefits;
these include workshop and computer equipment and installations, considered
essential for improved operations and for which technical studies have been
prepared. Individual economic rates of return (ERs) for components of the
plan range from 12% to 34% with an overall ER of about 192 for the whole of
Part A of the investment plan- The overall ER for Bank-financed items in
the plan is also estimated at 19%. A sensitivity analysis of individual
project items, based on increases in costs or reductions in benefits by
10%, showea only one ER falling below 12%, this investment showing an ER of
10% but having broader indirect benefits which were not included in the
analysis.  All project components show acceptable first year benefits  and
are therefore justified on the basis of existing traffic levels. As
project costs were computed on the basis of recent CYR experience, and as
the trattic forecasts are realistic, and in viev of the considerable
experience ot Yugoslav Railways in implementing similar projects, the
proposed investments are free from any significant risk. Moreover, in view
ot the rolling annual plan mechanism followed by the RTOs, there is
flexibility in adjusting projects on an ongoing basis to changes in traffic
levels. Through its electrification component the project has beneficial
impacts on the environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Loan Agreement betweea the Bank, the Composite
Organization of Associated Labor for Railway Transport "Beograd", Belgrade;
the Novi Sad kailway Transport Organization, Novi Sad; the Composite
Organization of Associated Labor, Sarajevo Railway Transport Organization,
Sarajevo; the Skopje Railway Transport Organization Skopje; and the
Community of Yugoslav Railways; the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed separately. Special
conditions of the proiect are listed in bection III of Annex III. Special
conditions of ettectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01) are:
(a) measures required for a 10% tariff increase plus the increase
in the Industrial Producer Price Index between January 1983 and
the time of effect of such tariff increase have been taken;



- 23 -
(b)  Investment, Financing and Action (includiag Operational) Plans
have been approved by the Borrowers; and
(c) undertakings by Republics and Province to make available to the
Borrowers funds required to complete financing of respective
investments against which Loan proceeds will be disbursed.
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMEJDATIONS
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 29, 1983
IWashington, D.C.



- 24 -                                            ArNUl
Page 1 of 6
T AB LE 3A                                         ACEt
CUsOLAVIA              - SOCLAL ZIDCMS  AA SEE
YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE       WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /&
lQST                     (lowtS  RECN ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT /bDDLE DnCou                       IuULaA
tLI..,/b     E5    rmm                  EUROPE            MZE? CUKZS
aW cf3S8 U. U)
TOTAL                              zS.        Z5S.8       25S.8-
AGRICULTURAL                       148-2      14t3        1z.29               -
cl PM1 015   CM)                      350.0   F 20.0        2790.0           2653.6                   l1t:2.7
sogr  aosmrr    PM  brrm
(EILDCRAZS  OF COAL EQLUTALEPr)   a85O       t558.0      2402_0           1580.8                   7500-6
mLazi  S  VITL WSTrCS
PPcOPLR`IO.RfryEAA (ThOUSANDS)  18402.0    20171.0    22516.0
ORB PoPuLmAxni c OF TOTAL)         27.9        34-.        *3.1             47.5                     78.2
POPULArIOS PROJECTIONS
POPULAXID  IS YEAS 2000 (KILL)                           25.5
STRTIOIA   POPULATION CRULL)                             30.0
TEAR r.AT10585  POPR                                    2070
POPwrLATLE DlESSiT
PEE SQ. ER.                       n1.9       79J,        87.3             az.u                     139.0
PER SQ. OM AGRI. LAND            124.2      139.3       156.4            157.2                    514.z
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
o-1' uAs                         30.5       27.4        24.5             3119                     22.4
IS-SW YRS                         3.Z 62.-1             64.7              60.9                     66.0
65 AND ANOIE                       6.3        7.s a.n                      7.2                     11.6
POPULATION 08rH0 RATE (C)
TOTAL                              1.2        1.0         0.9              1.6                      0.J
URAS                              3.6         3.2         2.9              3.4                      1&.
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOIS)       23.5        17.d        16.7             25.u                     13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (MER THOS)         9.9         8.9        9D0               9.1                      S.9
GROSS EPROIMUCTLQO RATE              1.4        1.3         1.1              1.7                      0.9
FALMILY PLASHUC
ACCEPTRS. ASAJ. (TWOLS)            *_                      -
usCis CZ OF MARRIED WOW_S)                   559.0         _               _
POOD AN Jmtrr
ISDE OF FLOD PROD. PER cAPtTa
(19t9-71-100)                      85.0        93.0       117.0            l08.4                    13Z.4
PEI CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (' OF REQULRrW.ZSJ      z2.Do      130.0       140.0            129.6 I13.4
PRorEINS (CRAzS PER DAY)         95.0        93.o       :01.0             9z.3                     99.0
OF SIGl ANSLNAL AND PULSE       29.0        32.0        39.01e           34.6                     61.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RTE         11.2         4.b         1.              10.4                      0.4
LIFE DrECT- Ar REMrH CTEARS)       634Z        66.7        70.8             67.2                     74.9
INFANr lRT. RAE (PER THOUS)       91.9        55.5       30.6              71.4                     10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE UATER (ZPrP)
TOrAL                               -        33.61d
URBAN                            42.4/d      62o7;i
RUKAL                                        tz1237d
ACCESS TO ExCrA DISPOSAL
(CZO POPULATION)
TrOrAL
URBAN
RURAL
POPULATION PER FKSISCIAN         162.ZO      1O0O.0      68O.0            1094.5                    553.6
POP. PER NURSING P-Mc.            630.0/c    410.0        280.0            762.5                    182.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL SrD
TOTAL                            200.0      180.0       170.0/f          334.0                    119.8
URBAN                            90.O/c    100.0       0IDO.07           21b.0                    143.2
RURAL                           1040.0/e   1600.0      :8;.do7F
ADflISSILNS PER HOSPlTAL RED                   17.3        18.Z/f           20.0                     17.7
ALERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.0         3.8         3.81f
URRAN                             3.3         3.2         3f37.
RtURAL                            4.4         4.3         4.t*17
AVERAGE O. OF PERSONS/RItI
TOTAL                             1.6         1.4
URBA"                             1.7         1.3
RURAL                             L.5         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (: OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             54.5       57.9
URBAN                            '2.7        98.4
RURAL                            36.1        80.1



ANNEX I
-25 -
Page 2 of 6
TADL Z 3                                           8 2
TUWST.AVIA            - SOC. inw*ie  SA TA
WUSLAVTA                   303630~EFEENC  ~Ps CfZXlTD ATER&=S) 
HMST                     CST a3sNo  15T2NAM3   /.
1960R U97              ?  LC IMUS                      r   *SIU
ADJUSTED ENAOLLPWAT RAT-8630!                                             NaT ti0a
nnncm causr a^r.os
FlRMM.  TOTAL                   ui.a       106.0        99.0            102.2                   101.5
HALC                 113.0       108.0      100.0            107.2                    103.3
Fr sE                1080.0      iota0       u.0              97.9                    *03.3
SEcIDART: TOT.L                  36.0       63.0        83.0             36.5                    89.2
NAE                   63.0        U.0        J6.0             63.4                     84.3
LE                   53.0        58.0       60.0             48.3                       D0
VOc*nowz. C or SECOloA)              ..       26.4       24.2              22.4                    16.3
lPt-TEAC. RATO
awn                              33.0       27.0        24.0             24.7                    20.2
SECDNAEt                         13.0       22.0        18.0             22.1                    14.4
ADtT LITEACY WRE CZ)               76.5       63.5       85.0             69.7                    93_9
PASSCCI CADSITlUSASS POP           3.0        35.4       66.7Th           52.9                    356.3
RADIO RECCVtS/TWCSA   0W          64.9       165.9      207.4            165.5                   1085.6
T7          PT        P             1.4      68.3        192.4            124.2                   49.5
rIE'SIAPEm  ( =DAtT WeURL
NTEEsTr) CmCMATIO
PE SL AS  POPULATION              70.3       853        10m.0             96.3                   331.3
CelE    ANUAL. ATZSOAISEICAPT       7.1        4.5        3.5              2.9                      3.5
TOTAL LABLO  FORM CROUS)         8302.0     8W38.011   9J56.011
FI2IALE (FECE)                   35.0       35.9       361               34.5                    36.1
nMICLTURE (PERCUT)               63.0       51.0       29.0              40.7                     6.2
In11RT (PERCE)                   18.0       23.0       35.0             23.4                     37.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PEPCIN!)
TOTAL                            45.1       43.4        *2.1             42.0                    45.5
MWAE                             b0.0       56.6        54.6             55.2                    39.0
FOULE                            30.9       30.6       30.0             29.1                     32-5
ECWOOIC OEEDE? laTIo               0.3         0.3        O.8              0.9                      0.6
S         DISTflIWE
PERCEgrr OF PRIVATE C 1
HRIGsT = OF OS5HL                I6.4fJ     13.1/       13.1/ MM
ICIEST 202 OF HOUSEHLDS          41.Sfl    4I.747      3_.77               _                     43.1
LtllEST 202 Or wUUtS              6.9fl      6.67-       6S-S T.                                  3.3
LlUZST 402 OF IOUQRODS           19.Off     16L47E      ii.17              ..                    16.5
POE    Tsr    Caans
ESTOIATED ASSUJE P0VE11   [NMEI
LEVEL USS PER CAPITA)
11151                             _...._...
ESTIMATD REATVE POVERTY [MC(D
LEVEL (USS PER CAPI)
DREAM                              .. ..       
RURAL                                                  53300           409.0
ESTIMATED POP. IfL.W AISELTrE
POVERIT I!CltE LEVEL. (I)
URBA                               ..
RURAL                              .
.%OT AVAILABLE
RCOT APPLICABLE
ser ATE~MTE
11 0 T E S
/a The group averages for each lndicator are populatioo-wilhted aritletIc  _as. Covrqe of cantries aeiq the
Indicators depends on Svl ahiliSty of data and is not nfoer.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 160 rlefr to any yger betes 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970- bet_een 1969 and
1971: a.  data for  4out Recent Eetlmte- between 1979 and 1961.
/c 1977; /d Percent of occupted housing units with piped _ter; /a 1962; /f 1976; fA 1975; lh 19V7  /i lnclniiq
migrant workers abroad; LI 1963; /k 1953.
Ihy 1983



- 26-                                                                                           ANNEX I
FrPage 3 of6
___.t.                                     _10t.. tl0-7iI5S Of,  SlbIA                laI SOICCW
h-o:Si.  .'   wdt..da'to   r.    ooat  oao   i    -f aby.tato   ant- r.lto.l. It  tod.0  hr oct0  thotto    '-t    ot,atoal
ypocbt. oynono a  th   artof aaodadtrs  dr t.to lon ao  worpt.onniby CI bOst  enotiat  ocaloctis to  -a..Im  datI- t-   oo` thnonn,oooft t
dinri   Olao  t -a.r.to  iatoot  t.on.a*o coaocnr..  oral  nj.  4s.tcoon  ilooo  ont.L.
Mr.trosraonaoo   tIooooooootnt  ttn  n(ot  oorysdlt  otr   roc ottn*t0" .  -000iietit i   ooto'opn   o
t.frt.rar Stoop.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Lf
att  tOo-o.aoc n*t-Atoolalo   Mtftnitoo-,tpolal.  4 .044b tIit"eno    rott
o.yo. por-cZ.0 -a.anoocnnrdn-.o in.-fal-.; lOIt.                                                r -Z. a-ti -non..                     ",,-                    .II
5,7  aott  050  ata.                                         fopotatmo -r Oonntottl Sod - tata. nft.aoo. ar  roan! - P-poati--vIte. al
-zin-  z. L. ~      ~      ~      ~      oin.  r   oa?Iiodo    ftit  ogocionoto  o  oottlsd
oaT r-o c74 i:Sct   incno raion  ttoonon a  rnrnot ncoororto..  eo.0t ab!- o p.okltnod etntopoern               nrcaitoa tna.oool on
caitlard S.noo  c0n-rna.    Ootan locdtanArta  ti0Soi 6ot01       t-itafktttio  too-n.toootal ac  nnOtin.   pn-.III0lottfr
toot. or'-. ..~~~~~~~~~ tnt-I                                            ho no k~~~~~~-nt Lno.. p12nta. 17ntn not   condo   ftolon00f   aa
El ~  ~     ~    aoa            otoo.mckhatao                  an0lrs   .a.   n
tacks Ctttt!n7t.o  PLOCat-?a -t.i.ani  t carot   aoonctto  of    otalelta   *oocco        poran..k?o  iayfd hoa pOnoltan (ot O  a nIk o
:000:  cntoko. n-ror *'.on.odo  -      o  Jt                                                1 501   Ofo       tO  =atnon  r  Otnto-  I -  -a  sno  of1  Omot,-   on acL dt    l-1rn
darn.                                                                                  f con booptralo dtOidod L7%  6-   `by     tc  fhn
ci..ciohttoI ocot o ttli-tatoo  a-aoot_g  toty P. afta
diorootdtit tn  o  .bo  tanny  fyntroanattt o   ntMlit
sn   roniron:  tt.t  tt. a-irE   ora.*onron  tno  f h-h-Id00-one  fc bnoobldt    ina!.  rbso   Osmora
coioto aoronon too                                                                        -    hosOna cnotoo oL. non  o  totoanlonoi nnc  toibtqoroc
ctootot. t  na rti  -  oiron tnoctato    L-ojcton  a.0  -o   ntWattnr.t    nt.Abad,n   nsroyo    roib   o ddI
toot: Jc.o:aiao . a- ar  on.aol ioni  notalty oo  fnctttt                Oh  onsi'i,      tcoatnlaipopo.
tntn.   rof. rot  nrnoroTn.aoorolct  at.  tot   o  chn-Nta.n rofPto.  1                                       tao.oto              crtn-rn           -
(to?.  nooto  kt  .ootaon  a   Iro. oocnootnnir. totrn   rc          f trnnonpryoIt   roi  rbno  nod onra o- opio =            noo1-   na
cooto ktocoton. an  tnIn  tt-  o.onnoc  ntai irto~ar  7.0  o~tOsn~ronoctonty   Oro tn.. -olenoo-rtn.ot  troboro  so
aroro.  ro.  arn-oroTar ootk to  ra.alsoho   irn  nooa ccco    at
atot1   n-ont  o~  it   ntcto   akto.noi          po   ool                      tt.'  fortit   prro   fdnltgn      oti   O.O.nd  oa 
otot'.    .aooo   too   o-t't  tr   niao              aftoa.on                             -notoolaoliontt.ittttr  rut   ;otr"- nyotn
tratonrn  ooytatot.- )n oattoaf0 o4.Ioot.0  rItt  0.n  5rn.-
at.-   o Srio rt.in   o.  toti  400' oR.L -1 otno ri  no                         ocot
piooatoc.0    0 ZT-      at*0fh    nt  Tt.   mn.tdcaafr                                        prinry . otoc-O  rr.atn:  nsl   ocoo   btro   ndbt
itotr  of on oc.oaoat tooh-  .ao 7ti~  ot ro rat.! tyllo.of        ooro ht Sotnd fr it tocono to-so- nf  rtnay ndontka;bt.
!otttoraotonracooorlot.                                                                  ooOro  0thom.yatnswt1o   nttOtOtno o,ndLI.ptIa



-27 -                                                      ANI 1
Pag * of 6
Population: 22.3 million (Cid-1931)
ClGt Per Capital  USSZ.790 (19812
IUGOLAVIA - ECOMS C INOICAMS
Aunt                                                 A_1a  Growtb Rates tSI
Cmillion US$ at                                         tat eopatet 1972 prices)
Inrdcator                  current prices)                                  Icuol                                                     Id Projectd
l98D c         1975     1976     1977              1979      19IO     1981     1982     19_ 3     1989     1985     19S0
ATIONAL AGGIfiS
Cross Goest&c Product *1        69.232             0-9      S.2      8.4      8.5      *.2       2.2      2.2    -1.0    -1.7        2 n      2.7       4.3
Agrie.ultrs                    6.516           -2.6       6.4      5.7    -5.9       5.6      0.0       1.0      5.0      0.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
Industry                      2H.801            7.'      *.1       9.5      9.3      8.5      3.6       1.4    -2.7    -2.0        1.0      9.0      5.0
S.r vce-                      24,993             1.4      5.3      7.1    13.1    -2.0    -2.2          3.4    -1.0    -2.0        1.0       1.5      3.0
Consumption                     *B.760            -3.3      0.0      9.3     13.0      3.8       0.6    -1.1      -0.7     -1.7      2.5      2.4       3.9
CrOs inrvstment                 23.218            10.1      3.6     17.4    -3.2      12.0    -3.2    -1.2    -4.0          0.0      3.0      3.2       t.0
Exports of CIFS                 14.053             1.1     10.4    -2.0       4.8      2.6      12.6      9.3    -5.7    -2.0        6.0      6.0       6.8
Imports of CQS                  16.799           -1.3    -8.6       16.1      2.5     12.0    -9.7    -2.6    -10.3    -2.0          3.7      6.0       5.6
Cros  national aawiam,          19.619            14.7     °0..      5.6    -3.1       3.C        5.8      -        -        -        -        -        -
PRICX
GDP deflator (1972 -100)           411           170      204      Z32      260      313      411          575      731      -        -        -        -
Exthange rate                       29.9          17.4     18.2     13.3     13.6    19.0      24.9        3.S_     1.3 S-                     -        -
Share of GO? at market Prices (C)                                  Awrage A_mal IeCTs. CZ)
(at current prics) bi                                          (at ontnt 1972 price-)
MO       1970      1975     1980      1985        90               19S-70   1970-75   1°75-10   1980-35   1985-90
Gros. Eomestc  Product a/      100.0    100.0    100.0    l0O.0      100.0    100.0                   5.9       6.5       5.7       0.5       4.2
Agriculture                  22.5     16.1      13.3      12.3      13.1      11.8                  3.3       2.9       2.4       2.0       2.0
Industry                     *2.2     37.4    49.3    91.6          91.4      44.7                 6.3       8.3        7.0       0.3       5.9
ser-..c                      29.0    38-1       33.1    3691        35.7      33.6                 6.9       4.7        4.3       0.2       2.9
Cnasumption                    b7.2     72.8       79.5     70.9      69.2      98.6                  6.5       6.9       5.4      -0.2       4.0
Gros  investment               36.5    32.3        33.5     30.5      29.0      29.0                 4.7        5.5       5.3      -O.q       4.1
kxports 01F35                  13.9     1835       20.2     27.7      29.3      33.0                 10.2       6.7       5.7       1.5       4.!
Iports c-FS                    17.5     23.5      28.0    31.-        27.5      30.7                 9.8        6.7       2.5      -1.5       6.5
Gross national sasuins           32.s     2S_6       25._     23.3      29.5      29.9                  5.3       6.2       ..5        -         -
AS t  of GOV
19b9     1970      1975 -1990         981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total re,ve-u                  2  9     33.1       36.8     3490      32.3
Totl rpenditur-s              24.1     33.2      37.2      39.6      31.6
Surplus (-) or deficit C-)      3.2      0.1      -0.4       0.6       0.6
Foreign financtng               0.0      0.0      -0.4       0.0       0.0
1960-70  1970-75   1975-80  1980-85   1985-.0
OTMEX lOICDTOBS
cGP S-owth ratc C1)             6.1      6.7       5.J       0.1       9.2
C5P per capita groueh rate      5.0      6.6        4.7     -0.8       3.3
IWO                             5.4      C.6       5.3     35.3        7.0
Impaort elascicity              1.6      1.0       0.3    -3.0         1.5
*1  At arket prices; components are expressed at factor cost nd will not add up co total due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
bl Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
" Estinate.
F-IEA IC
April 19. 1083



-8-                                                       AIOEX I
a ger 5 of 6
Populatio:n 22.3 million (mid-1981)
CImP Per Capita. LISS2.790 (1981)
TIWSLAVIA- EXITURAL Tg4DE
Amoost                                                Annual Crowth Rates (X)
(million MS at                                            (at contant 1972 prie.)
Indicacor                  current prices                                   Actual                                          I                Protectrd
(1981)           1975      1976       i977      1978       1979      1980    1931   1982   I98W3    1084    1985    3q90
ExrERIiAL TilADE
herchanIdLa  export.             10.204            0.0       14.5      -5.3        1.0       1.5      11.0    11.7    -6.7    0.5      6.0      6.0    7.0
Primary al                      1.709           -3.1       16.6       3.9       1.5        2.0       2.5   -14.6      1.9   0.5      6.0     6.0    7.0
Manufactures b/                5.495             0.4       13.9      -8.8       0.8        1.5      13.8    19.0   -7.8    0.5       6.0     6.0    7.0
Nrch ndi.. Imports              14.528           -2_8       -6.5      18.5       3.8       12.9    -10.5    -4.9   -10.0   -0.3    8.6         6.0    5_S
Food                             868           -40.9      45.8        4.3    -24.2       35.6       -2.3    -7.4  -13.1    0.0       5.0     6.0    4.5
PetraLe,m ci                   3.162            -5.0       10.1      12.0      11.6        7.3      -6.2    -1.4   -14.2    3.0      5.0     6.0    7.0
Machinery god equipment         3.756           2Z.]      -8.8       17.8       7.1       15.4    -17.4   -15.6   -12.7  -5.4        9.4     6.0    . 0
Others                          6.123          -11.9     -12.7       22.1       4.4        8.8      -7.0     0.0  -14.1    2.0       9.4     6.0    %.I
P8111S (1972 - Io0
Export price index                  316          172        180       202       220        259       308     311      336    354     383     411    550
Import price index                  352          1x4       189        216       226        281       337     342     349    363      384     407    560
Ter .1 trad- inde                    89.7         91.5      95.2       93.5      97.3       92.2      91.4    91.8    96.3   97.6    99.6   101.0  98.3
Compowitiom of Merchaodine  Trod. t:)                                  Axrage ADnual Inerea.  M.)
(at current prices) d/                                            (at constant 1972 pric-e)
1960      1970      1975       1980      1985      1990                3960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85   1985-90
exporta                                  100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0      100_0                 8.1        5.7       5.1       2.S      6.8
Primary a1                              49.6      29.4       19.5      22.0      21.0      21.0                   -        -1.3       6.0      2.7       6.8
a..uf&cturea bI                         50.4      70.6      80.5       78.0      79.0       79.0                   -        8.1       4.7       2.6      6.8
Imp.rt.                                  100.0     100.0      300.0     100.0     100.0      100.0                 9.0        7.4       4.!     -1.6       6.5
Food                                     9.1       7.2       5.5        7.2       8.5       8.0                   -         5.0      11.9    -4.0        S.4
Petroleuu e/                             5.4       4.8      12.3       23-6       8.7        8.6                  -         8.2       7.2      1.3       6.1
Machinery and equipnt                   36.8      33.2       33.9      28.0      29.2       29.7                  -         9.4       3.1      -3.U      5.9
OCher.                                  48.7      5438      48.3       41.2      53.6       53.6                  _         6.0       3.5     -0.7       6.5
Share of Trade vith                Sbare of Trade vith          Share of Trade with Capital          Share of Trade with
Industrial Contries t )           471opir  Countrie  ()            Surplus Oil Exporter. (.)      Central- Planned Econanies t:)
195    1970      1975     1981      1S65    19      1975    1981   1965    1970    1975    1981       1985    1970    1975    I98I
DIRECTION OF TAME1
Export.               40.1    51.3      34.0     31.o     17.4    13.6    16.8    U8.3    0.4       0.7     2.1    11.8      12.1    32.4    47.1    48.9
Primary             61.0    70.2      54.0      -        9.1      8.2     8.9     -      0.2      0.2     1.9     -        29.7    21.4    35.2      -
Mautfactures        26.0    41.9      26.0      -       23.8    17.Z    20.0      -      0.6      1.0     2.1     -        51.6    39.9    51.9      -
.mports               55.3    66.1      59.1     50.1     16.0    12.7    15.7    15.3    0.1      0.1      0.6     9.1     28.6    21.1    P4.6    30.7
ml1  $LTC 0-4
7i  SITC 5-8
:J SIC 3: includes Iubricants. coal and eletricity.
4/  Projected years at ceotrat 1972 price..
E  stimates.
ENA IC
way 24. 1983



-29-
PeM. A .9 6
S2300LALVIA - BALANeCE oF AVA2uETS FXrENNAJ. CAPITAL AIM DIENT
Pep.Lte.-o    22.3 *iLL-n IFLad-19412)
CUP "'r Cp.t.-  U3362,790 11901)
Is.41-t.1vtt.                                                                                                                                                      rjce
1970        19 5        :926         I.-?        nran        in'0       I-so  1ten           a    SI         09          to           ..'         i
BLIL OF PAThISgTS
LoPoete of poe. end sevce                          .037       8,02;       90. s2      10.38*      12,.069     14,276      28.100 20.002        9.7           20.9764     21.S81       16,600      45,"'
of v6zhc     -   Ue.".nd.  f..b.                1.7          ,3          .9          .22         589         674         097    02.        2,4              2020       12.b15      14,37..      N  71
imost-  o tesen L       .r"acee1.18                               l       a.31 89??   1 9.91     13.352      17.432.      20.192 20,034    20,24.0          2.9fl        29.750      219         -.9
ofeIk         ecbele0 1                        2.8.74.      2.617       71,67       e,?6,      10.4.19      14,019      23,0*5 14,1528    21.1,6           13,392 1-7              2,9         'U.511
tr.et  beiseco            -340     -1,0C2          2~~~~~~~~~~65  -2,34.  3.201      -1.642      -2.242   -417        -46        ~       2        -25          ¶4            0
"LI Zeess ce.tI                        in~~~~~~~~Lo  9s1     -.0O.,       1,.132      1.h9'       2.0091      2.410    831          Uta          2.,429        Mo          -mq          es
Ut foc.e 3                            20~~~~~~~~~~~i  24.6   213           63         1ie         III           29  ,1.83      2,050           13549       :.6.8       2,5.           .93
Prlcet.                              12~ ~ ~~~~              ~~~~      ~~~8 703  "81  2.171  12,26  879     2.151   -542        -'20            -220      -.2.016t    -2.fll          -1
-       h- 6ev    ...0 Ij                                  38          135         119          43         34        14.87          A7    141         -62              97           10         134         A'3
toner 10 reserve.                      124    ~     ~~~    ~~ 81  -2.17     211        -612       1,26         -715   -238       2,012          -.0            47          30
I..ternotlesnl reserves cl            ~~~~276     .02        2,880       3.813       3.6*3        2,4.91      3,2?3  2.6827      1,673           2.675       .1.22       1,34?       *.22
O3 0It5I6   6*14 (efo.e2.tsl                       3           62          6            64          6.          71           79     7          70              7R          75           97
-e.he   c  et. Inpe,,L                          1.0         2.0         3.8         1.0         3.1          1.7         1.9    1.2         2.0             2.3         L.A         2.5          2.0'
OOTI20L 18717.4 8011 IEts
Gre.. Oasb.,.eencs                  611       2,~~~~~~~~164.7  2.09%         2.66   ,00        2,414       4.,136  2,2.70      20,04.         4.,216       3.000       2,675       3,62,
LotOOOnIen                                 67          134         13          159          29           12          20      12          -----
061                                               0          71          62          66           11          12          13s      4          -----
OPALZ                                             -           -           -           -           --                       -       -          -----
Other                              ~~~~         ~~~          ~~~       ~     ~~673  b3  72  93  1s  2          5       4          -----
eo,-cseoesete.el Ieee.               2~~~~~73  2.037       2,962        2,306       2.6fl       2.421      46.236  2,758       2,044           4,224       1,000       267           ,6
O-fitoeL eepec .-ef.te                          29          203         283          71          7D           -0          93  13,35       2.075          2,350          SIt         741          -44
ty93                                            37          154         32    11      3 I       390         294          218    238    21                  965          577         310         105
Other e.tIErI-                                                -           -           -           P            4           6      1                                              
Provete                            4~~~~~~~~~~           ~~.9  1,600o  2,30  .2,24  2,.109    2,.1         3,173059             .85          7,200        ,7           ,0          ,0
Y..jg...2e9 ceport creOle (5.0)    (-273       (~~-82)    (-In0)       (-1811      (-106t)     2-2221      (-3003 (-3932    (-202             (-22(]40                f-lI!)L      (-100)
Loreldebt
dob,ecdi                                2,033       3.820       7,27?       8,956       11.11?      11,606      33,.44 16,236    29,297            27.225      34.979      If9.,16     2.2
Oftuctel                           034~~~~~~~~~~5.  2.327  2.792      3.091       31,4.0      1,662        4., .?1,0         .,05            7,610      30,331       2,7         7,
1.,199      1.492       4.3ftu      3.A71        7.70?       9,946      20.994 32.230    10.220           2000          P.052       3.917        -2n1
Ldound.dbt                                 946       2.611       2,321       4.,..1       37.13       3,917       2,4.    .147       2,231           2,521       2.402       3,600          N02
tote.1 seocpeete                                  503       1.4"I       2,.4.0      1,291       2,86h       2,8251       2."1   1.690       1,007          4,19        3.6P         5,011        ,9
lotore.t Il                       ~~~~         ~~~~~~128  209  30S37                 7          023          993  3137       2.891           2.,15       2.94.2      2,095        7,C7
Pe.ete  ott ceperts                  ~~~~ ~ ~~16.6  18.0      21.5         35.4,       24.9        24,9        23.2   20.4        29,1            23.0        L0.5%       29.9         12.2
doeregs 'n-rent vets- en.Iben  32)           7,.1         5.2          7.2          .          7,7         8.0         D.,.  L2,7        II.-            11.-        32.'         I..-        2,.0
Of fo-t .I                                           .0         0.1         7.0          7.1         7.7                     -       -          -----
PrI   e7.3                                                      7.1         5,6         9,1         8.3          9.                  -          --                                             
AnrC. ee,or  ofno  len   po.                          6.3        13-7         10.1        11.4        11.3        20.81        20.1   10.1        II-2            7..        103          1.1          4.
OfocEL-                                            20.5        36.9        10.0         1.          S                   
P-ivts                                             10,9        20.0         3.7          7.         --                       -       -          ----                                           
01  Let lentW..d.(d iwI..                                                                 -.tw           m-I
'  -Itldoocers  ere.gS eote .8 t.- ..Ie beebe.
'ttenlb-.rrtn  reported so the 6,tvel           -ent  of Pepet.l  stteosee   oo   .tvn  debt, de..                                                            01000*1C
t1  Debt  seat   -el,e           .t..e.., en  .e-rs  en repor  crda  evvedb                     IZel..i                                                              Apr12 29, 2901



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Forty Loans fully disbursed                                     1,339.46
916    1973   Naftagas                     Gas Pipeline           59.4     8.05
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda         Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0     0.22
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &      Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0     0.07
1360    1977   Management Organization      Multipurpose
"Metohija"                   Water                54.0    31.73
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka           Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries           26.0     2.60
1371    1977   Stopauska Banka Skopje       Agriculture
Industries          24.0      3.11
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in      Second Power
each Republic                Transmission         80.0    11.06
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka            Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0     7.74
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways             100.0     3.el
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina          Hydro Power           73.0    11.48
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      7.90
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0     1.44



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
'Number  Year            Borrover(s)           Purpose            Bank Undisbursed
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       3.90
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka            Fourth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit               20.0       1.53
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje       hacedonia Strezevo
Irrigation          82.0        0.71
1621    1978   Privredna Banka              Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                     Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      31.20
1678    1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Heze-
govina and Macedonia        Roads                148.0      41.95
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka             Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0      33.14
1768    1979   Port of Bar                  Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0      33.63
1769    1979   Railway Organization         Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                ilitation-
Railways             14.0       7.61
180'    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka           Third Agricultural
Credit              86.0       56.11
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                125.0      76.42
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Fifth Industrial
Credit             50.0       46.55
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit             30.0       11.14
1911    1980   Investiciona Banks           Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit              20.0      19.31
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka              Fifth Industrial
Skopje                       Credit              10.0       2.80



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (leos
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
1951    1980   Investbanka                  Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0       74.63
1977    1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railvays               34.0      26.22
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0       83.22
2039    1981   Stopanaka Banka Skopje       Agriculture           80.0       67.04
2055    1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vodovod                      Kosovo Water Supply  41.0       29.22
2132    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial       33.0       32.5;
Credit
2133    1982   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Sixth Industrial      33.0       32.51
Credit
2136    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Agriculture            35.0       34.48
2161 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage   34.6         34.60
2233 1/ 1983   Regional Work Organiza-      Tuzla Water Supply   30.0        30.00
tion KOHPRED               and Environzent
Total (less cancellation)                              3,214.46    898.84
of which has been repaid                                597.21
Total now outstanding                                  2,617.25
Amount sold                            9.2
of which; Amount repaid               9.2
Total now held by Bank                                 2,617.25
Total undisbursed                                                  898.84
1/ Signed but not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESThENJ U(an-of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                         ...            Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor       -             Business          Loan   Equitv   Total
1970   International Investment             Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia         Corporation         -      2.0     2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                        Industry         12.4     0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry            9.2     0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-          Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                           Industry         16.3     0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                        Tires             12.5     2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira          Pulp and Paper   70.9      -       70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO             Special Steel    10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant      10.0     -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                           Steel             50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute        Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                     Processing        4.0      2.4     6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                          Hermetic
Compressors      7.0      -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                    Tourism           21.0      -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Machinery         18.7     -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial          Small-Scale
Banks                              Enterprises      30.3      -      30.3
1982   Igalo                                Physical
Medicine
Center           16.5    -       16.5
1982   Industrija za automobilski          Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen-Auto)       & Accessories    11.3    -         11.3
Total Gross Commitments                              315.7    11.8   327.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                           173.5      5.2   178.7
Total commitments held by IFC                        142.2      6.6   148.8
Total Undisbursed held by IFC                         38.7      0.8    '9.5



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31.--1983)
Loan 916 NaftaRss Pipeline:  USt59.4 Million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974;,ClosinR Date,; June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delay. occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles,
organizational change, etc.).  In December 1979, the Government requested and
the Bank eventually agreed to divide the loan into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being 'r charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Vojvodina
and Serbia are now under construction. The only outstanding major contract
still to be awarded before the current closing date concerns Butangas'
telecommunications and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
systems. Depending upon early contracting of the SCADA system a further
extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 Million Loan-of-June 14, 1976 Effective
Date;  November 3, 1976; Closing Date:  December_ J1, 19Zi; 7acc,ount
lett oPen).
After some initial delays, the project is progressing
satisfactorily. Major works still to be executed are the Vrutci dam and
water supply distribution and sewerage network in Titovo Uzice. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1982 (after two extensions) but the account remains
open to allow disbursement in respect of expenditures under contracts signed
before the closing date.
Loan 1263  Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage; US$45.0 Million Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Date: b_;,ember 9, 1976; Closing Date;
December 31, 1982; (account left open).
Construction works are proceeding well and the project is
substa-itially completed. The loan was closed on 12/31/82 but account remains
open to allow final disbursements.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX ,II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0-Million Loan of February 3.
1977; Effective Date; July 27, 1977; Closinx Date; December 31.
1983.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed. Overall project progress is about three years behind schedule
and the Closing Date has been postponed initially by one year to
December 31, 1983. Contract for ICE procurement of G.R.P. pipes was signed
on January 22, 1983; however, it was necessary to reduce the scope of supply
to conform to the tender. Modified contract is expected to be validated on
April 8, 1983. The single remaining ICB contract for automatic regulation
equipment is expected by mid-May, 1983. Based on current progress, all LCB
contracts should be awarded by July 31, 1983. Irrigation system for about
1,200 ha will be ready by 1984.  Completion of the total system is now
planned for December 31, 1984, which will fit in with current plans for land
consolidation.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26_.0 Million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date;
June 30, 1983.
The project is substantially completed. The winery operations are
completed and operational. Farm center construction is complete and farm
roads are nearing completion. The completed irrigation system is supplying
2,014 ha under vineyards and orchards. The loan is 90Z disbursed. Due to
high rates of local inflation costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by
about 60Z.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries; US$24.0-Million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27J 1977,;. Closing Da,te
June 30, 1983.
Due to delays in implementation of social sector sub-projects the
loan Closing Date has been postponed by 12 months to June 1983. Recently,
progress in project implementation has shown improvement as all contracts
for construction of agro-industry facilit'is have now come into force and
four of the seven sub-projects are completed. Contracts have been signed
and approved for the remaining sub-projects. All individual sector funds
have been completed and disbursed. The loan is 872 disbursed.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 Million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31.. 1978; Closing, Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is expected to be completed with a delay of about two
years and the closing date has been extended by six months to 6/30/83, in
order to allow full loan disbursement. The loan is practically fully
committed. The Borrowers have been advised that there would be no further
extension of the closing date.



- 36 -
ANE  II
Page 7 of 12
Loan-1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US075.0 Xillion Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective-Date: January 30, 1978; Closing -Date; Auxust 31  1983.
The loan is fully committed and all agro-industry investments are
in the implementation phase. Implementation of the project is about one and
a half years behind appraisal estimates. About 90Z of the loan has been
disbursed. As a result of the Goverment's recent stabilization measures
however, exceptional delays in contracts coming into force have resulted and
consequently the closing date has been extended a secc--f time, to
August 31, 1983 so as to be able to disburse ag^-nst purchases of equipment
for the agro-industry component only.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway:_. US$100- Million Loan of April- 13,_ 1978_; Effective
Date: September 28,-1978;-Closing Date: June30, 1983.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
total USt 97.0 million. The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Remedial actions will be agreed upon in the context of the
proposed loan for a Sixth Railway Project.
Loan 1561 Midole Neretva Bydro Power:  US$73 Killion Loaa of May 31 1978;
Effective Date:  November 15,_1978;_Closi   Date:  June 30., 1983.
Part A of the project (construction of the C-rabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been completed and both Grabovica and Salakovac
have been in operation since D.rcember 1982. Part B, originally not financed
by the Bank (Nostar Dam), however, has been delayed by problems with the
site geology and funding. The technical problems have been solved and the
detailed designs of the Mostar dam and power plant are now available.
Regarding the funding. a supplemental Bank loan is now under consideration.
If action on this loan is taken before June 30, 1983, Part B of the Project
could be completed by December 1987, assuming that funding for the local
costs is forthcoming.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 8 of 12
Loan-1611 Third Industrial Credit; $40.0 Million Loan of July 26, 1978;
a                    Effective Date:  November 16, 1978;Closinx Date:  April 30-1983.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates due to late approval of two large "special subprojects" aud
changes in the originally approved equipment lists and often incomplete
withdrawal applications. The Industrial Credit Department of the borrower
Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) continues to be weak, especially in terms of
proper project appraisal and supervision. This matter is being focussed
upon through frequent supervision. Also. institutionai improvements vill be
a major component of a proposed new loan to KEP.
Loans 1612. 1613 and 1614 Fobrth Industrial Credit: 020.0 Million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16. 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1983.
The loans are fully committed. Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behind appraisal estimates. The closing dates for all
three Loans have been extended from December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1983.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 Million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982; (account left open).
Project construction has been substantially completed. The loan
account has been kept open in order to enable disbursements against
contracts for which commitments have been made prior to September 30, 1982.
$81.29 million disbursed as of March 31, 1983.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Kraiina Agriculture and Agro-Industries;  US$55 Million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date;  March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of the closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns have neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which will improve performance. The financing
problem and inadequate progress in the individual sector has been resolved
and specific action programs have been agreed with the borrower and the
implementing agency. As of March 31, 1983 about 93 percent of the loan has
been committed and 45 percent disbursed. Given the stage of overall project
implementation, the most likely completion date would be December 1984.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway:  US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date:  August 14, 1979; Closing Date:  September 30, 1984.
Project now faces delays of about 15 months because of reduced
road expenditures now planned by Government. Revised investment plans
prepared by all participants. All links are now committed. Works will now
extend to early 1984 in Kosovo, Vojvodina, Bosnia and Macedonia. Only
Montenegro has completed its program according to the original schedule.
Loan closing date has been postponed to September 30, 1984.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage:  US$51 Million Loan of Octo,ber 11, 1979;
Effective Date:  April 17, 1980; Closing Date: - June 30, 1985.
Decisions to award contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion of civil works have been finalized. Project management problems and
inadequate funds together with import restrictions had caused procurement
delays. Revised financing plan with assurance of funds has nov been
prepared and import restrictions for the project have eased. Studies on
sub-surface drainage had a delayed start. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Land consolidation is
progressing on schedule. Farm development works are progressing. The loan
is 352 disbursed.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake- Rehabilitation - Port of- Bar: US$50 Million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is currently about two years behind schedule,
primarily due to delays in preparation of designs and contract documents for
civil works stemming from more rigid design criteria to withstand
earthquakes and from the lack of adequately experienced project and support
staff. Bank missions have repeatedly emphasized need to strengthen staff,
and port management has recently taken remedial action. Contracts for civil
works are in progress and should be completed by about May/June 1983 or
shortly thereafter. Bids for workshop equipment and for new tugboats have
been received and some contracts awarded by PBWO. Deliveries of equipment
and tugboats in early 1984 appears likely. The original closing date of
December 31, 1982 has been Postponed until June 30, 1984 to allow for longer
than anticipated delivery period for remaining Bank financed items.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 Million Loan
of November 30, 1979,;,Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $6.39 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
slower than expected largely as a result of complicated engineering design
for repairs to a badly damaged tunnel. The Borrower's request for an
extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit; US$86 Million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25  1980; Closing Date: Marec  31. 1985.
Progress in commitments in the social sector is very slow. In the
individual sectcr, 93Z of funds are committed, while in the social sector
only 41Z is committed. The agroindustry subprojects have still to be
identified in some Republics; and a few approved processing facilities are
behind schedule. The progress in physical implementation in the individual
sector is good. The loan is about 352 disbursed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Kighway: US$125 Million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
All contracts relating to the participating Republics/Provinces
have been approved by the Bank.  The Toll Study Draft Final Report has been
reviewed. Cofinancing was obtained for an amount of US$ 110 million in
October 1980. Due to implementation delays arising from shortage of local
funds, project completion will be about 18 months behind schedule. The
closing date has been postponed by one year to June 30, 1984. Further
extension of one year might be necessary and would be considered on the
basis of project implementation in accordance with a revised schedule.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Lndustrial- Credit;  $50.9. $30.0, t20.0
and $10.0 Million, respectively, Loans of-February 9j 1981;
Ef fective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing LDates: October 31., 1984.
Loans 1910 (PBS) and 1912 (SBS) are being committed rapidly, while
commitments under Loans 1909 (KBE) and 1911 (IBT) are behind schedule.
Commitments by KBP and IBT started late due to external factors, but have
picked up rapidly and is expected to be completed within the currently
stipulated commitment period.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II;  $87 Million Loan of Aril_13,
198l;_ Ef fective Date.:  August 28,_ 1981_;_ Closi*ng, Date:- December
31, 1986.
Eighty-five percent of the loan proceeds are committed.
Withdrawals have commenced but are behind appraisal estimates. The delay is
due to procedural problems in withdrawing Bank funds. This has been taken
up with the Government in order to resolve the issue. As for the physical
implementation of the Project, progress is very good. ln the individual
sector, about 800 livestock farms, 1,150 ha orchards and 140 ha vineyards
are expected to be completed by the end of 1982, while 11 out of 14



- 40 -
ANNEX 11
Page 11 of 12
agro-industrial facilities are under construction, of which 5 are likely to
become operational in the Spring 1983. Progress under the irrigation
component continues to be unsatisfactory. Action plans for support services
approved by the Bank and implementation is underway.
Loan- 1977 -Kosovo Railway;  $34.0 Million Loan- of May 15, 1981;  Effective
Date: November 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31 1984.
After a slight delay due to expropriation issues, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of signalling and telecommunications
(SS&TT) equipment and freight wagons has been completed. Upon request of
the Borrower the Bank has agreed to a reallocation of loan funds which will
become surplus because of favorable results on the SS&TT contract and the
devaluation of the Dinar. The surplus funds will finar.ce the acquisition of
four diesel motor trains for which a contract will shortly be awarded.
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development:  $90 Million Loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date;  December 23, l98l; Closing Date;_- June 30,
1987.
About 25% of the Loan amount has yet to be committed and the
Borrower, KBP, is behind schedule in hiring requisite support staff. Six
agro-industry investors have signed construction and equipment installation
contracts and work has started. The investors for two other agro-industry
subprojects expect within the month to finalize contracts according to the
bid evaluation reports, after considerable delays due to the investors'
requests to change processing capacity or product line. The four remaining
agro-industries sub-projects are being replaced, taking into consideration
changes in market potential of inputs and outputs. Out of 2,000 ha of
plantation sub-projects, the Borrower has approved sub-loans to seven social
sector investors covering about 1,600 ha for vineyards and orchards. For
the individual sector, the Borrower has approved sub-loans for 300 ha of
vineyards. For the Groundwater studies component, the consultants have
completed the detailed terms of reference and cost estimates and started
work on hydro-geologic investigations.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development:  $80 Million Loan of
July 23. 1981; Effective Date: January 6, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30. 1987.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule. Disbursements are
about one year ahead of schedule. The social sector vineyard (1,450 ha) and
orchard (2,500 ha) components and the cold store component (15,000 tons)
were fully committed. Individual sector investments are also ahead of
schedule. Although nearly all feasibility studies have been completed, the
small-scale irrigation component is behind schedule due to SBS appraisal
bottlenecks and to problems with generating the 20% local contribution to be
provided by the Communes.



- 41 -
ANDEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply:  $41 Million Loan of December 14, 1981;
Effective Date: April 14, 1982; Closing Date: Jun,e 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Overall construction
progress has been good and the quality of construction is high. Contracts
for all major components of the project have been awarded. Due to several
contributory factors revised total project cost has been reduced which will
result in a savings of US$15.0 million from the Bank loan.
Loans 2132 and 2133 Sixth Industrial Credit Proj,ect:  $33 Million Loan
Each Loans of August 31, 1982; Effective Date;  November 23, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Loans declared effective on November 28, 1982. Commitments of
sub-loans progressing satisfactorily. $0.98 million disbursed as of
March 31, 1983.
Loan 2136 Bosnia Agricultural_Development-Project: $35-Million Loan
of ~ma  4, 1982; Ef fective Date:   November 23,_ 1982;k Closing
Date: March_31. 1987
This loan became effective on November 23, 1982. Bid Evaluation
Reports for all six agro-industrial processing facilities have been cleared
by the Bank. About 40% of the Contract Documents have been received while
others are awaited by end April 1983. Construction of about 60Z of the
Popovo Polje Irrigation Project has been completed.
Loan 2161 Semberija Drainage:  $34.6 Million Loan-of May 27, 1982;
Effective Date:  April 29, 1983; Closing_Date:  September 30,
1987.
The loan is not yet effective. The new Date of Effectiveness is
set for April 29, 1983. Federal ratification and legal opinion are awaited.
Loan 2233 Tuzla Water Supply and Sewerage:.  $30.0 Million Loan of
January 25, 1983; Effective Date: June 10, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
The Project was appraised in March/April 1982. Loan documents
were signed on February 10, 1983. The loan is not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Pa&e 1 of 1
YUGOSLAVIA: Sixth Railway Project
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
bection I; Timetables of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to prepare
the project                               July 1979 - December 1982
(b) Project preparation agencies:              Railway Transport
Organizations (CROs)
Belgrade, Novi Sad,
Sarajevo and Skopje and
Community of Yugoslav
Railways (CYR)
(c) First bank mission to consider
project                                    October 1981
5d) Appraisal mission departure;               1larch 1982
5e) Negotiations completed:                    Nay 20, 1983
(f) Loan effectiveness planned:                November 1983
Section II; Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A. httectiveness
(a) The completion of measures required for the imposition of a
tariff increase of 102 plus increase in the Industrial Producer
Price Index between January 1983 and the time of effectiveness
of such increase (para. 64).
(b) Investment Plans, Financing Plans and Action Plans (including
Operational Plans) have been approved by Borrowers (paras. 48
and 62).
(c) Republics and Province to make available to Borrowers funds
required to complete financing of respective investments against
which Loan proceeds will be disbursed (para. 60).



- 43 -
B. Other
(a) RTOs to achieve manpower targets and to review manpower plans
annually (para. 38);
(b) Investments under Part B to be transferred to Part A, only after
their technical and economic justification has been demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Borrowers and the Bank (para. 48);
(c) RTOs to continue system of project management established under
the Fourth and Fifth Projects (para. 61);
(d) RIOs to continue to update annually action plans (including
operational plans) and to implement them (para. 62);
(e) RTOs to take tariff actions to achieve program for reduction in
levels of compensation payments (para. 64).



