Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15214
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN No. 2336-YIJ)
DECEMBER 27, 1995
Energy, Environment, Transport and Telecommiunications Division
Country Department II
Europe & Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =      New Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
(Average Annual Rate)
US$1.0         1982           =      0.005
US$1.0         1983                  0.009
US$1.0         1984           =      0.015
US$1.0         1985           =      0.027
US$1.0         1986           =      0.038
US$1.0         1987           =      0.074
US$1.0         1988           =      0.2025'
US$1.0         1989           =      2.900
US$1.0         1990           =       11.300
US$1.0         1991           =       19.638
New Dinar introduced in 1988.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                 British/US System
1 meter (m)                   =      3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)              =      0.6324 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)               =      2.2046 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m ton)          =      0.9842 long ton (ig ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL           Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CEE            Central and Eastern Europe
COI            Community of Interest
CYR            Community of Yugoslav Railways
EC2ET          Energy, Environment, Transport and Telecommunications Division
of the Country Department II in the Europe and Central Asia Region
EIB            European Investment Bank
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FE             Foreign Exchange
FSU            Former Soviet Union
FYR            Former Yugoslav Republic
GNP            Gross National Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MIS            Management Information System
MTTC           Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
OED            Operations Evaluations Department
PCR            Project Completion Report
RBH            Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
RTO            Railway Transport Organization
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SFRY           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TU             Traffic Unit
YU             Yugoslav Railways
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Opematons Evaluation
December 27, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia
Sixth Railway Project (Loan 2336-YU)
The Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Yugoslavia: Sixth Railway Project (Loan 2336-
YU, approved in FY84) was prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office. The Borrower did
not contribute Part II. The Loan for US$110 million equivalent was approved on July 19, 1983, and
closed on June 30, 1991, three years after the original schedule. A balance of US$3.7 million was
canceled.
The Loan, the sixth to assist the Yugoslav Railways, had as main objective to reduce operating
costs and improve the capacity of four of its semi-autonomous regional railways (Belgrade, Novi Sad,
Sarajevo and Skopje), to allow them to compete effectively in the transport market. The project
comprised the four railways' 1983-1986 slice of their investment plans, whose main components were
the overhaul of railway track, procurement of locomotives and rolling stock, installation of signaling and
communications, electrification of main lines, and complementary facilities and studies.
The project was implemented during a period of dramatic social, economic, and political change.
Despite this, the project's physical investments were essentially completed. Substantial implementation
delays were due to late effectiveness and to shortage of counterpart funds. The studies were completed,
but the recommendations were not implemented.
Political changes and the ultimate break-up of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,
coupled with the changed economic environment in Central and Eastern Europe, led to a considerable
drop in freight railway traffic, rather than an increase, as had been forecast. As a result, the reestimated
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is low-in the zero to five percent range- against 19 percent forecast at
appraisal.
A significant part of the project's investments in Bosnia-Herzegovina were destroyed by the war.
Further, there are indications of lack of adequate maintenance throughout the railway system over the
past few years. This, together with poor traffic and financial performance, draws into question the
viability of the investments made.
The PCR provides a detailed account of the implementation of this last railway project for the
former Republic of Yugoslavia. The PCR rates the project's outcome as unsatisfactory, its sustainability
as unlikely, and its institutional development as negligible. The Operations Evaluation Department
agrees with these ratings.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface ...............................................                                  i
Evaluation Summary ............................................ ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 1
Project Identity .......................                                    1
I. Background. . .                                                                1
II.   The Yugoslav Economy in the Early Eighties.              .      .           2
III.  Bank Cooperation Program with Yugoslav Railways             .    .    .    3
A. Railway Lending in the 70s          . . .                        3
B. Railway IV, V and Kosovo Railway Projects.                       4
C. The Sixth Railway Project                 . . . 5
IV.  Objectives and Description  .........          ..................... 6
A. Project Objectives ........        ...................... 6
B. Project Description  ........        ..................... 6
V.   Project Design and Organization  ........................... 6
VI.  Project Implementation .     ................................. 8
A. Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up  ....       ........... 8
B. Project Changes ........          ...................... 8
C. Project Implementation .......................... 8
D. Project Costs .........         ......................  10
E. Disbursements ........           ......................  10
VII. Project Results .     ....................................  10
A. Project Objectives .......        .....................  10
B. Rail Traffic ..........         ......................  11
C. Financial Performance  .........................  11
VIII. Economic Reevaluation .     .................................  12
A. Signalling and Communication Equipment ....... .......          12
B. Rolling Stock .13
C. Track Overhaul and Upgrading .14
D. Electrification .14
E. Feasibility Studies .15
F. Overall Economic Rate of Return.                                15
IX. Consulting Services .16
X.   Sustainability .....................   16
XI.  Bank Performance .....................   16
XII. Borrower Performance ....................   17
XIH. Project Relationships ....................   17
XIV. Documentation and Data ....................   18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.  |



XV.  Findings and Lessons Learned                        ...........................  18
XVI. Overall Project Rating   ................................   19
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...... 20
PART Ill. STATISTICAL  DATA   .................................   21
TABLES:
Table 1. Related Bank Loans   ...............................  22
Table 2.  Project Timetable  .................................  23
Table 3.  Loan Disbursements  ...............................  24
Table 4.  Operational Targets   ...............................  25
Table 5. Rail Traffic   ....................................   26
Table 6.  Financial Performance  ..............................  28
Table 7.  Status of Loan Covenants  ............................  29
Table 8.  Economic Re-evaluation  .............................   30
Table 9.  Technical Assistance &  Staff Training   ....................  31
Table 10. Staff Inputs (Headquarters) ...........................   32
Table 11. Staff Inputs (Bank Missions) ..........................  33
Table 12. Staff Inputs (Mission Data) ...........................   34
Table 13. Summary of Assessments  ............................   35
Table 14. Project Implementation (RTO  Belgrade)  ...................  36
Table 14. Project Implementation (RTO  Novi Sad) ...................  37
Table 14. Project Implementation (RTO  Sarajevo)  ...................  38
Table 14. Project Implementation (RTO  Skopje)  ....................  39
Table 15. Project Costs and Financing (Project Costs) .................  40
Table 15. Project Costs and Financing (Project Financing)  ..............  41
FIGURES:
Figure 5.1. Freight Traffic in CEE Countries  ......................  27
Figure 5.2. Passenger Traffic in CEE Countries  ....................  27
MAP:
IBRD 16460 - Yugoslavia - Railway Infrastructure



YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sixth Railway Project for which
Loan 2336-YU in the amount of US$110 million to four borrowers (RTOs Belgrade, Novi Sad,
Sarajevo and Skopje) was approved on July 19, 1983. The loan was closed on June 30, 1991,
three years behind schedule. US$106.26 million of the loan was disbursed and US$3.74 million
canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy, Environment, Transportation and
Telecommunications Division of the Europe and Central Asia Region, Country Department II.
Parts I and III of this report have been based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrowers, internal Bank memoranda, reports/data received from the Borrowers, and
information available from the project files. Due to the current conditions in parts of the former
Yugoslavia, and poor communications with the Borrowers, this report has been prepared under
conditions of shortage of data and materials concerning the completed project.
The draft PCR was sent to FYR Macedonia on April 13, 1995, with copies sent to
officials in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), the Republic of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, and the Community of Yugoslav Railways. No comments have been received.






YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    The Sixth Railway project was implemented during a period of dramatic social and
economic change for, what was then, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), a
period marked by unrest and significant political change. In addition, the project itself was
complex and consisted of four separate components to be administered by independent railway
organizations (RTO) and coordinated by the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR). The
Bank loan of US$110 million was divided into four sub-loans as follows: RTO Belgrade
(US$30.6 million), RTO Novi Sad (US$24.4 million), RTO Sarajevo (US$36.7 million) and
RTO Skopje (US$18.3 million) (para. 3.8). This made the project difficult to supervise and
increased the resources necessary for implementation. Ultimately, with the breakup of the
Federation, many of the intended benefits of the project have been lost during hostilities,
economic embargo and the economic consequences of political realignment. In addition, the
political and economic changes which have taken place in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE)
and the resulting substantial decrease in freight traffic have reduced the impact of the project.
Gains from project investments in the Bosnia-Herzegovina areas have been lost to the war.
Objectives
ii.   The main objectives of this project, to improve the capacity of the four participating
railways to compete effectively in the transport market, were only marginally achieved and on
a substantially smaller scale than what was planned at appraisal (para. 4.1). The technical
assistance provided under the project helped define the railways' strategy to improve its speeds
and to reorganize its locomotive maintenance but these were inadequately implemented. The
disturbed conditions in the late stages of project implementation arising from the serious
hostilities in the former Yugoslavia, prevented the consolidation of several of the improvements
proposed, and a sharp decline in rail traffic prevented the attainment of any major productivity
gains (para. 7.3) and significantly reduced economic returns on the project.
Implementation and Results
iii.   There were substantial delays and some changes during the implementation of the project.
The delays were caused initially by late effectiveness of the loan (para. 6.1) and later due to a
shortage of counterpart funds (paras. 6.5-6.6). A significant part of the delay was also the result
of a contractual dispute between one of the Borrowers and one of its contractors which was
resolved through intervention of the Bank (para. 6.7). The changes in the project arose mainly
from redefinition of priorities as a result of studies. The principal change was the replacement



- iii -
of the sub-project for the track-doubling of the Ostruznica-Batajnica line by the expansion of the
Belgrade Junction project (with greater benefits). In addition the procurement of 60 wagons was
transferred to an earlier part of the investment plan after the preparation of the requisite
economic evaluation. Due to the devaluation of the dinar and the higher purchasing value of the
dollar some additional items, including spare parts and additional track overhaul works, were
included in the project.
iv.    The organization of Yugoslav Railways (YR) with its eight autonomous Railways
Transport Organizations (RTOs), made it necessary to prepare four separate loans, each with
its own action plans and targets which came under the umbrella of the same general project
objectives. Each of the four RTOs had its own program of track rehabilitation, motive-power
and rolling stock acquisition, and Belgrade and Sarajevo had significant electrification works.
In addition, Skopje had a sizeable signalling and telecommunications program. The project was
therefore fairly extensive in scope and difficult to supervise.
v.    Despite the delays in project execution, however, the essential parts of the project were
implemented, although it is difficult to say what remains of the project due to hostilities in
Bosnia-Herzegovina. The economic reevaluation of the project yields an estimated ERR in the
range of 0-5% against the 19% forecast at appraisal, primarily attributable to the benefits of
rolling stock and track overhaul investments. Financial performance in the period 1983 to 1990
deteriorated (para. 7.7) primarily due to a marginal increase in traffic (and a fall in traffic after
1986 (para. 7.3)), insufficient tariff increases and insignificant improvements in the railways'
productivity.
Sustainability
vi.    Although the project was eventually physically implemented with delay, the destruction
of a significant part of the project in Bosnia-Herzegovina, and an apparent lack of adequate
maintenance over the past few years make it difficult to determine whether the project remains
sustainable and to what degree any benefits of the project have been realized. In areas where
civil unrest has had less of an impact, steadily falling rail traffic and the poor financial
performance of project entities draws into question the financial sustainability of project
investments.
Findings and Lessons Learned
vii.   This was a conventional railway project in the sense that it concerned itself mainly with
the improvement of the railway's performance, and its main components were the investments
in track rolling stock, electrification signalling and telecommunications, etc. The Bank's
appraisal mission accordingly appears to have concentrated its efforts in examining the
justification for the various investments, wherever possible persuading YR of the need to
improve its market competitiveness through improvements in productivity and cost effectiveness,
and reducing government subsidies to the railways.
viii.  The various financial targets in the Action Plan were based on projected tariff increases
and increases in traffic which never materialized. As for the productivity targets, such as staff
reductions, availability of motive power and rolling stock, wagon tum-around time, etc., it



- iv -
would appear these were fixed without considering fully the linkage between the investments and
the indices, which appear to have deteriorated (rather than improved) as the investments took
place. There is no doubt that this was at least in part due to the unsettled conditions existing
in the country, resulting in economic decline and reduced traffic. But equally, perhaps,
appraisal forecasts of freight traffic were over optimistic. More significantly, the ability of the
Borrower to undertake difficult financial reforms, especially during an increasingly unstable
political situation, was probably overestimated.
ix.    In 1982, when this project was appraised, the Bank had not yet become involved in any
serious restructuring or privatization of its railway borrowers. However, it did make serious
efforts at improving the institutional set up of the railways and other transport entities. This
project, on the other hand, concentrated on financial and productivity improvements, relying on
CYR to coordinate the railways where required, ignoring the political problems associated with
significant policy changes, especially concerning tariffs and operating cross-subsidies. The Bank
appears to have accepted the clearly inefficient institutional set up of the Yugoslav Railways as
unsurmountable. From today's perspective this was a realistic assessment of the situation.






YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name               Sixth Railway Project
Loan No.          2336-YU
RVP Unit          EC2ET
Country           Yugoslavia
Sector            Transport
Subsector         Railways
I.    Background
1.1   The Sixth Railway project was implemented during a period of dramatic social and
economic change, a period which saw the breakup of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (SFRY), as well as dramatic economic changes in other Eastern European countries.
The period since 1990 has been a particularly commercially disruptive period of political
realignment and hostilities in parts of the former Yugoslavia. Even without these changes, the
Sixth Railway project was complex and, although designed as a single project, there were four
separate Bank loans to railway organizations (RTOs) operating within the SFRY which were
coordinated by the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR). Since project completion, many
of the intended benefits of the project have been lost in the war (Bosnia-Herzegovina), economic
embargo and the economic consequences of political realignment. In addition, the political and
economic changes which have taken place in Central and Eastern Europe have lessened the
impact of the project by reducing commercial rail traffic to significantly lower levels than
projected at appraisal.
1.2    Project results were not the same in each of the project areas, and what were four RTOs
operating in a single country at appraisal have now become three fully separate railway systems
operating in independent countries; the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYR
Macedonia), the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and the Republic of
Bosnia-Herzegovina (RBH). While nearly all of the physical investments of the project were
completed with some delay, it is unlikely that the project's benefits are sustainable given current
traffic levels and operating conditions. Gains from project investments in the railway system
of RBH have been almost completely lost in the war. The railways of FYR Macedonia and



- 2 -
Yugoslavia are operating under generally stable conditions, although with much lower than
predicted traffic levels and non-operative facilities; e.g., the main trunk line in FYR Macedonia
is blocked and the Greek border is closed to rail traffic. The institutional improvements intended
under the project were for the most part never met, and likely would never have been met, even
without the breakup. Most institutional gains which did take place have been lost to subsequent
political changes.
II.   The Yugoslav Economy in the Early Eighties
2.1   In the 1980s, the SFRY had an extensive and diversified transport system, of which roads
and railways were the backbone; road and rail carried, in 1982, about 70% and 20%
respectively of the total passenger and freight traffic. The transport network consisted of about
110,000 km of roads, 9,400 km of rail lines, 7 main ports, 15 airports (of which 10 handled
international flights) and a sizeable network of inland and coastal waterways. Pipelines had
come into increasing use in recent years. SFRY bordered on seven countries and had extensive
access to the Adriatic Sea; it was thus an important crossroad for European traffic, including
traffic to the Middle East. Its transport system had traditionally provided sea access for the
central European countries and for international tourism.
2.2   During the 1960s and 1970s, the backbone of Yugoslavia's internal freight transportation
was the railway network, which had the central responsibility for moving traffic over relatively
long distances from the various centers of manufacture and trade to important consumption
centers. Although road transport increased its share in total freight traffic continuously to the
point that it had replaced rail transport as the dominant carrier, the railways continued to play
a crucial role as a main carrier of bulk materials needed by key industries, as well as the carrier
of just under one-half of total freight in the public transport sector.
2.3   At the time of project appraisal, the justification for investing in the railway system was
based on recent changes in the economy and growth forecasts for the medium-term. During the
period 1976-80, railway freight traffic grew at 4.5% per year compared to only 1.4% during
the period 1970-76. This upward trend bolstered the Government's emphasis, since the
beginning of the 1976-80 plan, on the development of a more efficient and competitive railway
system, a policy which followed from the energy crisis and the railways' lesser reliance than
road transport on imported fuel. During the same period, the demand for railway services was
accentuated by steep increases in oil prices, the latter generally reflecting world market prices,
and by shortage of gasoline and diesel fuel for road transport.
2.4   Further justification for railway investments came from the Government's own growth
forecasts. The Government's medium-term plan 1981-1985 showed the economy improving
slowly through the period, with an average growth rate of 1.5% per year for industrial output
through 1985 and a corresponding 2% per year increase for the rail freight traffic. Combined
with the planned introduction of fuel rationing in October 1982 to be lifted when the foreign
exchange position eased, the Government expected that rail freight traffic would increase during
the medium-term plan 1981-85 at about 3% per year, followed by a slightly lower rate in the
long term.



- 3 -
2.5   Despite having stagnated during the 1970s, railway passenger traffic was also expected
to grow, at least over the medium-term. While passenger traffic grew only 1 % in 1981, at the
time of project appraisal, fuel shortages were already boosting the demand for rail travel with
preliminary estimates showing a 6 to 7% growth rate in 1982 alone. The Government expected
rail passenger traffic to continue to increasing by at least 2% per year through 1985 with the rate
returning to a lower 1 % growth rate in the long term.
2.6   Overall, the Government recognized the importance of the transport sector in the growth
of the economy and in achieving balanced regional development. The sector had, therefore,
been an area of major investment, not only to meet domestic market needs, but to improve the
country's own integration and its integration with the rest of Europe. The principal objectives
of the Government's transport policy were to provide appropriate transport infrastructure to
support the development of the economy, to integrate the various modes of transport, to open
up less-developed regions and foster regional and economic integration, to rationalize the use
of energy and to reduce the negative effects of transport on the environment. Bank-financed
transport projects have provided support for growth in industry and agriculture for regional
development, and for export expansion.
III.   Bank Cooperation Program with Yugoslav Railways
A. Railway Lending in the 70s
3.1   Bank cooperation program with Yugoslav Railways (YR) began in 1963 with the First
Railway Project, to upgrade the Sarajevo-Ploce line which was completed in 1970 after a delay
of four years. The Second Railway Project (1964) was for the modernization of three mainline
sections and the improvement of six marshalling yards. This project was over-dimensioned, its
implementation was delayed, and it was refinanced under the Fourth Railway Project and
completed in 1981 at almost twice the original cost estimate. The Third Railway Project which
built the remaining part (372 kIn) of the Belgrade-Bar line also had significant overruns in time
(85 percent) and cost (87 percent). It was the conclusion of the post-review that preparation
work for these three projects was inadequate because insufficient attention was paid to technical
aspects of preparation and resulting implementation problems. Macroeconomic difficulties
impacting on YR made the Government's fiscal and credit policies more restrictive, leading to
inadequate tariff increases and delays in funding the projects. The targets set by the Bank
proved to be unattainable in a setting where the Government prized job security and national
linkages above staff productivity and technical efficiency. As railways' share of traffic declined,
YR's financial position worsened and its need for financing grew, both for rehabilitation and
replacements or upgrading, thus leading to increasingly urgent requests for more Bank loans.
3.2  In 1970, the Bank felt that it was time to take a systematic look at the railway system as
a whole and in 1971 consultants were retained to carry out a comprehensive review. Their
report (1972) concluded, inter alia, that:
(a)  YR was following conflicting commercial and social objectives;
(b)  YR was short of both investment funds and good investment planning;



- 4 -
(c)  YR's tariffs were government controlled, while those of their competitors were
not; and
(d)  YR had excessive staff and too many stations.
Finally, the consultants concluded that YR could play a strong role in the Yugoslav
economy provided (a) management and performance were improved, and (b) a realistic
investment program could be prepared.
3.3   A Bank mission visited SFRY in May 1972', and after lengthy discussions with the
Yugoslav authorities recommended that the Bank ought to assist in the solution of problems
faced by YR, subject to:
(a)  the preparation of a new Investment Plan based upon adequate feasibility/economic
studies;
(b)  the preparation of a Financing Plan; and
(c)  the preparation of an Action Plan to be jointly prepared by YR and the
Government. This plan would need to correspond to the consultants' management
related recommendations (which were not fully in accord with the Yugoslav socio-
political system).
3.4   These three conditions implied formidable changes in the relationship between the Bank
and SFRY on the one hand, and between the Federal Government and YR on the other. The
next three Bank-financed projects, the Fourth, Fifth and Kosovo Railway Projects would show
to what extent the above conditions were fulfilled.
B. Railway IV. V and Kosovo Railway Projects
3.5   The Fourth Railway Project (1974) was prepared for the modernization of the RTOs of
Belgrade, Skopje, Sarajevo, Zagreb, and Ljubljana and financed the 1974-78 slice of the
Railways Investment Plans. In addition it picked up the uncompleted portions of the Second
Railway Project. The Fifth Railway Project (1978) financed the 1978-80 slice of 1976-86
Investment Plan for the RTOs of Belgrade, Skopje, Sarajevo, Zagreb, Ljubljana, Novi-Sad and
Titograd. During appraisal of Railway V, when YR realized it would not be granted tariff
increases, it introduced the concept of compensation: government subsidies to railway
infrastructure aimed at offsetting the advantage of road traffic which it felt did not bear the full
cost of road facilities. Ultimately, the appraisal of the project was closed on the optimistic
understanding that the project and its investment and action plans would result in a reduction of
compensation and other government subsidies from 22 percent to 15 percent of total revenue in
the period 1976 to 1980. The Kosovo Railway Project supported the implementation of RTO
I  The mission was made up of staff from the Bank's Operations Evaluations Department (OED) whose main purpose
was to assess the status of several recently completed and on-going railway projects, as well as make recommendations
concerning future lending operations.



Pristina's 1981-85 Investment Plan. From the beginning there were doubts whether the
financing of this project for the Kosovo Railway which carried only one percent of total national
traffic was justified, but a Bank loan of US$34 million was approved. In addition a loan of
US$14 million was made to the railway (1769-YU) as part of the Montenegro Rehabilitation
Project to repair the damage caused by the Montenegro earthquake.
3.6   The results of the Fourth, Fifth and Kosovo Railway Projects were similar. Physical
progress was slower than anticipated. Operations improved to some extent but financial targets
were not met because of inflation, deteriorating economic conditions and government
unwillingness to increase tariffs or cut costs adequately. No significant institution-building
activity was attempted, and as a result the primary objective of reducing dependence on subsidies
was not achieved. Cost-overruns in all the three projects were: Railway IV (7 percent), Railway
V (14 percent), Kosovo (85 percent). There were also significant delays in implementation:
Railway IV (4 years), Railway V (2 years), Kosovo (2 years). However, despite the shortfall
in achievements, the economic rates of return (appraisal-PCR estimate) were as follows:
Railway IV (16-19 percent), Railway V (15-18 percent), Kosovo (10-22 percent). The Kosovo
Railway Project proved beyond the capacity of the enterprise to implement and was completed
four and a half years behind schedule (May 1989 instead of December 1984).
3.7   In all three projects, planning and coordination by Community of Yugoslav Railways
(CYR)2 was never particularly effective, and could not be strengthened because the government's
efforts at decentralization sent a different message.  The Bank's operational policy staff
commented repeatedly that Bank supervision had been passive. Financial targets were not met
because, given the differences between the Bank and the government on the tariff-subsidies-
compensation problem, they could not possibly have been met and, in retrospect, appear to be
over-optimistic given the likelihood of compliance.  Despite systematic non-compliance,
disbursements were never suspended and assistance to YR continued.
C. The Sixth Railway Project
3.8   At the time of appraisal of this project, the structure of the Yugoslav Railways was quite
complicated; it was organized along the basic pattern of the economic system, with eight
separate and autonomous Railways Transport Organizations (RTOs), each serving a republic or
province, each named after its capital city, and together forming a rail network of about
9,393 km. Beyond the RTOs involvement in CYR, each republic and province had a
Community of Interest (COI) representing the users of railway services which linked the RTO
and its management with the economy and the society that the railway served. The COI made
railway policy, planning and financing decisions that in most countries are made by central
governments as owners of the railways. The involvement of the COIs made decision-making
slow and cumbersome. This project covered four of the eight RTOs of the Yugoslav railway
system, and the Bank loan of US$110 million was divided into sub-loans as follows: RTO
2  The Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) was an organization established by the independent RTOs, under federal
law, as an umbrella operation organization. CYR acted as an forum for common decision making, and an executing agency
for joint operations (e.g. timetables, wagon utilization, revenue distribution), as well as overall investment planning, international
operations and safety.



- 6 -
Belgrade US$30.6 million, RTO Novi Sad US$24.4 million, RTO Sarajevo US$36.7 million and
RTO Skopje US$18.3 million.
IV.   Objectives and Description
A. Project Objectives
4.1   The principal objectives of the Bank support for the Sixth Railway Project were:
(a)  to strengthen the four participating RTOs so as to enable them to compete
effectively in a competitive market, by improving productivity and the quality of
their services;
(b)  to further improve project management and the preparation and implementation of
sound Operational and Action Plans; and
(c)  to put the railways back on the road towards financial viability.
B. Project Description
4.2   The project comprised the 1983-86 slice of Part A of the four participating RTOs' 1981-
86 investment plans, and technical assistance. The principal components were: (i) overhaul and
reconstruction of about 700 km of worn-out track; (ii) procurement of traction and rolling stock
(about 4,270 freight wagons, 2 diesel locomotives, 13 electric locomotives, 38 diesel shunters,
6 electric and 8 diesel motor trains, 67 passenger coaches, 4 sleeper coaches) and spare parts
for locomotives; (iii) installation of modern signalling and telecommunications;
(iv) electrification of about 375 route km of main lines; (v) reconstruction of stations; and
(vi) integrated transport facilities. Technical assistance consisted of study abroad of methods
adopted by railways in other European countries for the increase of main line speeds up to
160 km/h, consultancy assistance in the implementation of a study for the improvement of
electric locomotive maintenance and operations carried out as part of the Fifth Railway Project
(Loan 1534-YU), and staff training for senior and middle management of technical and financial
departments--and for staff training, for the maintenance of modern signalling and
telecommunications installations.
V.   Project Design and Organization
5.1   The project was proposed by the Government through the Community of Yugoslav
Railways (CYR) and designed as a continuation of the process of modernization of the railways
which was the main objective of the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects. The Government's
major priority in the transport sector was to modernize and strengthen the railway system. The
main thrust in the project design. therefore, was on the reduction of track maintenance costs
through the track overhaul components, the raising of operating speeds by better signalling and
telecommunications, and electrification which reduced operating costs on heavy traffic lines.



5.2   Project preparation, which began in early 1980 and ended with negotiations in May 1983,
was adversely affected by two issues: (1) compensation, and (2) tariffs. The objective to raise
tariffs so as to reduce compensation was neither achieved under the Fourth nor the Fifth Railway
Projects. On the contrary, mainly due to higher than expected inflation, compensation payments
were higher in 1979 than in 1976. Throughout project preparation the Bank repeatedly stressed
the importance of these issues and insisted that compensation payments must be reduced in a
phased program and tariffs increased to cover inflation in future years. It should be noted,
however, that the Government appeared to have reservations by stating: "In judging the level
of compensation payment to the Yugoslav Railways which will be decreasing in the future one
should consider the policy of other European countries in this area since the YR are part of that
system. Namely, Yugoslav Railways have to maintain their competitiveness".3 In addition,
growing inflation and the Government's efforts to contain it through restrictions on price
increases in the economy were the main cause for Government reluctance to raise tariffs to the
extent regarded necessary by the Bank. Tariff conditions set by the Bank became more and
more the focal point of the dialogue with the Government and the railways resulting in slowing
down project preparation.
5.3   In the project design stage, the Railway Transport Organizations (RTOs) (the Borrowers)
prepared transport feasibility studies using methodology customarily employed in Bank projects.
As a result of the Bank's subsequent review of these studies and discussions with officials, a
number of marginal components originally proposed for inclusion in this project were either
reformulated or postponed. In addition, the investment plans were reduced to bring them more
in line with expected financial resources, and to focus on the most pressing needs and
investments, taking into account possible improvements in productivity. Eventually, the agreed
plans amounted to about 30% less than the railways' original proposals. Furthermore, on
recommendation of the Bank, the plans were divided into two parts: Part A consisting of
investments which were to proceed as scheduled, and Part B, containing items which were to
proceed only after appropriate technical/economic studies and when finance was secure.
5.4   The total project cost was estimated at US$867.1 million, with a foreign exchange
component of about US$405.9 million. The Bank financed US$110 million (13 % of total project
expenditures), the balance of the foreign exchange costs as well as the local costs being financed
from internal resources (38%), grants from republican and provincial governments (9%), loans
(20%), and suppliers' credits (20%). The Bank provided financial support for the study abroad
of methods adopted by railways in other European countries for increasing main line speeds up
to 160 km/h, and consultancy assistance for a study of the improvement of electric locomotive
maintenance and operations. It was felt that financing these studies would provide the Bank with
significant leverage to assist in institutional development. The selection of the other items
financed by the Bank was mainly based on the Bank's preference for items suitable for ICB.
5.5   The RTOs supervised the execution of the project with the participation of CYR, which
was responsible for the overall coordination of the project, carrying out the technical assistance
element, coordination of procurement, loan administration and periodic reports to the Bank.
3  Letter from the Federal Secretary of Finance, undated, logged July 15, 1990.



- 8-
VI.   Project ImDlementation
A. Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up
6.1   The project was appraised in March 1982, negotiated in May 1983, approved by the
Board in July 1983 and signed on October 5, 1983 (Table 2). It became effective nearly eight
months later on June 15, 1984. The original planned Loan Effectiveness date of February 1,
1984 had to be postponed mainly because tariff increases made before imposition of a price
freeze in 1983 were inadequate to meet the effectiveness condition. The loan became effective
only when sufficient tariff increases were made on the expiry of the price freeze in June 1984.
B. Project Changes
6.2   The postponement of Loan effectiveness delayed the initial implementation of the project
and the project's first year's investments were only a fraction of planned figure. However, once
the loan was effective, the project took off smoothly. Project procurement was well underway
at this time. In October 1984, RTO Belgrade requested to replace the track doubling of the
Ostruznica-Batajnica by-pass line for freight trains, which was included in Part A of the
Investment Plan and was to be financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB), by facilities
for passenger traffic as part of the Belgrade Junction project, included under Part B. The Bank
agreed because completion of the Junction would provide adequate capacity for through freight
traffic and also enable the improvement of suburban passenger services. In July 1985, the Bank
also allowed the transfer of 60 freight wagons, from Part B of RTO Belgrade's investment Plan
to Part A.
6.3  In April 1985, CYR asked the Bank to finance additional items of the RTOs' Investment
Plans totalling about US$41 million, the expected loan savings due to dinar depreciation. Items
valued at about US$11.5 million lacked adequate justification. Therefore, the Bank agreed to
use approximately US$29.2 million of the expected savings in August 1985. After the review
of feasibility studies for the remaining items, Bank financing was extended to US$39 million.
RTO Sarajevo was informed that the electrification of the Podlugovi-Droskovac line could not
be financed at this time because the economic justification depended solely on the steel industry's
quick and substantial increase of its consumption of domestic iron ore. The Bank recommended
to delay the investment and reassess its feasibility when iron ore traffic had actually increased.
C. Project Implementation
6.4   The implementation of the project is charted in Table 14 separately for each of the RTOs.
The rate of implementation varied, and clearly RTO Sarajevo carried out its program in a
relatively more efficient manner, completing all subprojects by the end of 1989. Although one
year behind the SAR project completion date of December 31, 1988, it was still well ahead of
the other RTOs. The other three RTOs completed the project in 1991. Sarajevo's performance
was significantly better because it installed an effective and competent project management team,
and made a decisive start almost immediately after loan signing. Special mention needs to be
made of the track overhaul, electrification and signalling works which were difficult as traffic
had to be maintained while works were in progress.



- 9 -
6.5  In early 1987, it became clear that project delays (except in RTO Sarajevo) would require
extension of the project completion date. Lack of local funds (RTO Belgrade), underestimated
difficulties to maintain operations on a main trunk line during track overhaul (RTO Novi Sad).
and a contractual dispute about the signalling installations (RTO Skopje) were the main reasons.
After a supervision mission in November 1987, the Bank expressed its concern about further
delay in project implementation caused not only by higher than expected inflation but also by
inadequate planning and slow administration.
6.6   An accelerating devaluation of the Dinar in 1987 provided a windfall of unused loan
balances while local funding became more scarce due to sharply rising inflation and inadequate
tariff increases. In addition, access to foreign currency became more and more difficult. In
May 1987, the Bank agreed to finance track maintenance equipment totalling about
US$3.1 million. In April 1988, the Bank agreed to a RTO Belgrade proposal to finance a radio
dispatching system valued at US$750,000. RTO Skopje, on the other hand, calculated that after
resolution of the contractual dispute concerning the signalling installations (para. 6.7), a
substantial surplus of loan funds would be available, and therefore requested the cancellation of
US$3.74 million which was approved by the Bank. In November 1988, the Bank agreed that
RTO Belgrade could use the remaining loan balance of about US$1 million for the purchase of
additional spare parts for locomotives.
6.7   RTO Skopje's contractual dispute relating to price escalation provisions on the signalling
installations contract continued throughout 1988 and 1989. In October 1988, a Bank mission
met the President of the Managing Board and other representatives of the contracting firm. A
new agreement was reached on basic conditions. The new agreement was signed by both parties
in November 1988. In June 1989, CYR informed the Bank that the problems had not been
resolved by the revised agreement, and progress of works had been very slow. In October 1989,
the contractor requested again to be protected against inflation and made it very clear that the
company was not willing to accept heavy losses on this contract. In the end, a compromise was
reached and it was agreed that original bid unit prices would be converted into US$ at the
exchange rate of the day of contract signing and these US$ prices would be the basis for future
payments in dinar. The company promised to complete deliveries by December 30, 1990. A
further amendment was signed on October 25, 1989, and this subproject was eventually
completed by the end of 1991 (Table 14).
6.8  In 1989 and 1990, RTO Belgrade concentrated its efforts on track overhaul. Work on
the line Mala Krsna-Majdanpek suffered delays due to severe lack of local funds (the Bank
financed materials were delivered). During the first half of 1990, 20 km were completed on that
line, but only 6 km in the second half of that year. By September 1991, 189 km (= 80%) of
the 237 km of track overhaul financed by the Bank were carried out (Table 14). This left 48 km
still to be done which the RTO completed in 1992.
6.9   Track overhaul in the RTO Novi Sad came to a near standstill in 1990, partly due to the
RTO's integration into RTO Belgrade. Only 5 km were carried out due to severe lack of local
funds. All materials were delivered in June/July 1990. By March 1991, the RTO had carried
out 176 km (= 99%) of the track overhaul originally planned 177.5 km.



- 10 -
D. Project Costs
6.10 Review of project costs has been limited by a shortage of data regarding costs. Whereas
total cost is available for each subproject, the break-up between local costs and F.E. costs is not
available. This data on actual costs is juxtaposed in Table 15 against the Appraisal estimates.
The total cost of the project was US$646.5 million as against the Appraisal estimates of
US$867.1 million. The main reason for the savings was the devaluation of the Yugoslav dinar
from around 5000 new dinars to the US dollar in 1982 to 250,000 new dinars in 1988.
Secondly, international competitive bidding for some of the major subprojects resulted in keen
competition and competitive prices. As a result, the actual cost of the subprojects which the
Bank loan financed was US$227.8 million against US$291.2 million estimated. For the other
items, the actual cost was US$418.7 million against US$575.9 million forecast.
E. Disbursements
6.11  Table 3 gives the position of the estimated and actual schedules of disbursements. The
start of disbursements was postponed due to delays in the effectiveness of the loan. As a result,
in the first year (FY84) only US$0.27 million was disbursed as against US$12.1 million
forecast. Subsequently, disbursements picked up and by the end of FY87, over US$90 million
of the US$110 million was disbursed. By December 1987, when it was expected at appraisal
that the full loan would be disbursed, only US$93.14 million was disbursed. This slow-down
occurred for two main reasons: (i) shortage of counterpart funds (para. 6.6); and (ii) delays in
the signalling and telecommunications project in Skopje (para. 6.7). These delays led to the
extension of the loan closing date to June 30, 1991, three years later than the original loan
closing date, when US$106.26 million out of the loan of US$110 million was disbursed, and
US$3.74 million canceled.
VII.  Project Results
A. Project Objectives
7.1   The principal objectives of this project (para. 4.1) were only partly achieved. In general,
the physical targets of the project were achieved. However, few if any of the institutional
targets were reached. Although the project underwent significant changes, the basic format of
the project remained unchanged. The project also brought to a conclusion the work started in
the Fourth and Fifth Railway Projects (Loans 1026-YU and 1534-YU).
7.2   As far as the productivity of the four railway systems is concerned, project targets were
laid down with respect to number of staff, labor productivity, availability of locomotives and
rolling stock, etc. Targets were set for the years 1984, 1985, and 1986. As the project was
actually executed well up to the year 1991, the 1986 targets have been compared with the actuals
for each of the years 1986 to 1990 (Table 4). The staff reductions targeted for the RTOs were
not achieved except for RTO Skopje which improved on the 1986 target of 5,140 by bringing
its staff down to 5,062 in 1990. The labor productivity targets (measured in traffic units per
employee) were not achieved by any of the four RTOs. Availability of locomotives deteriorated
during the project period, as did the availability of passenger coaches.  Freight wagon



- 11 -
availability targets were achieved by Belgrade and Skopje. Novi Sad was marginally lower than
target and Sarajevo achieved the target in 1986, but not in 1990. The destruction caused by war
has substantially diminished the benefits of this project, particularly in RBH. Ironically, RTO
Sarajevo's project which was manifestly well managed and was the first to be completed
(para.6.4), has suffered maximum damage during the war.
B. Rail Traffic
7.3    Because of unsettled conditions in Yugoslavia and continued warfare, the availability of
data has been limited. Accurate traffic figures are available only up to 1991 (Table 5) and show
in the earlier years of the project some increase in traffic, although lower than forecast at
appraisal, a drop in 1989 and a rather precipitous decline in 1990 due to the hostilities. The
main trunk line has been closed between Croatia and Serbia since 1991. The effects in terms
of fall in rail traffic, both within the country and international transit traffic have been
considerable. Overall freight in 1984 was 15,270 million ton-km. It fell to 12,819 in 1989 and
11,114 in 1990. Given the government's estimate for 2-3% growth in freight traffic over the
medium-term, this figure is less than half of what was expected at appraisal. While more recent
figures are scarce, overall railway traffic in Croatia in 1993 was less than one-third of pre-1990
levels. Similar drops have taken place in FYR Macedonia. As is the case with freight traffic,
passenger traffic, although nearly meeting appraisal targets in early project years, has fallen
substantially since. In 1985 passenger traffic nearly reached the appraisal target of 5,670 million
passenger-km at 5,542 million passenger-km, increased to 5,738 million passenger-km in 1989.
After 1990, passenger traffic fell substantially, to nearly half of pre-war levels in all project
areas. In Croatia, annual passenger traffic in 1993 was around 1,000 million passenger-km,
substantially below the nearly 3,500 million passenger-km level of 1990.
C. Financial Performance
7.4   The medium term financial objective for the RTOs, agreed in 1983, was that each of the
RTOs would achieve financial autonomy through annual tariff increases of 6 % over the increase
in the Producer Price Index. This combined with traffic and productivity gains would result in
a satisfactory financial performance. The appraisal financial projections were based on these
assumptions and it was projected that compensation should consequently be eliminated in 1987
at RTO Sarajevo, in 1988 at RTO Novi Sad, and by 1990 at RTOs Belgrade and Skopje.
7.5   Table 6 provides a comparison of the actual and appraisal projected operating ratio
(excluding compensation) and rate of return on net fixed assets (including compensation) for each
of the four RTOs for each of the years 1982 to 1990.
7.6   The operating ratios reflected in this table reveal no discernable trend for RTOs, but for
1989 and 1990 (the latest available actuals) all RTOs excepting Novi Sad produced operating
ratios considerably over 100%. Novi Sad produced a 97% ratio in 1989, but the 1990 figures
are not available due to the merger with RTO Belgrade. The rates of return on net fixed assets
provided in Table 6 are of little value in measuring financial performance and profitability
because of the arbitrary determination of Government compensation (included in the calculation)
and changes in methodology of valuation of fixed assets. Data on current operating ratios are
not available.



- 12 -
7.7   Overall financial performance in the period 1983 to 1990 deteriorated considerably,
falling far short of the optimistic expectations reflected in the Staff Appraisal Report. The
contributing factors to the poor financial performance over this period were:
(a)  extremely high inflation;
(b)  insufficient increases in tariffs and delays in their implemertation;
(c)  inadequate and delayed compensation payments;
(d)  reduction in traffic volume after 1986; and
(e)  no significant reduction in operating expenses in the face of falling economic
activity.
7.8   The above applies generally to all four RTOs participating in the project which,
nonetheless, deserve credit for their performance considering the hyperinflationary conditions
and the serious deterioration of the Yugoslav economy during this period. A review of
compliance with the major loan covenants is given in Table 7.
VIII. Economic Reevaluation
8.1   The main objectives of the project were to improve the capacity of the four participating
railways to improve productivity and quality of service, and thereby improve their financial
performance. This objective was not achieved and, in fact, may have been unrealistic from the
outset. The return on individual investments was calculated based on traffic and operating
ratios. However, given the uncertainty surrounding data on current traffic levels and the
physical status of important investments, the re-estimated ERRs must be considered to be partly
speculative.  The economic return on individual project components (track upgrading,
electrification, signaling and communication, and station improvements) are reviewed below
using the same methodology as the SAR.
A. Signalling and Communication Equipment
8.2   The project included improved signalling and telecommunications equipment on 400 km
of track, mainly for lines of RTOs Skopje and Belgrade, representing the completion of the
modernization of signalling and telecommunication on the main truck line from northern Europe
to Belgrade and to the border with Greece. The main benefits of these investments were
expected to be obtained from direct operating cost savings through higher operating speeds, as
well as savings in system operating costs through the automation and centralization of signalling
functions. Some other benefits such as fuel savings from trains no longer stopping and
accelerating at unscheduled stops and the time savings of road vehicles from shorter waits at
road/rail crossing points were not included in the benefit stream.
8.3   During implementation these investments proved to be the most problematic components
of the project and, ultimately, delayed the project closing date. Contractual disputes (para. 6.7)



- 13 -
and financial problems of the contractor delayed the track signaling investments (RTO Skopje),
which was finally completed some five years behind schedule. Actual costs were also above
estimates, although substantial devaluation and domestic inflation have made it difficult to
estimate costs reliably.  Assumptions concerning the benefits for staff reductions from
automation were too optimistic, although RTO Skopje was reorganized shortly after the project
began and was the most successful at reducing staff. Sensitivity analysis at appraisal found that
a 10% increase in costs or a 10% decrease in benefits would lower the appraisal ERR of the
Skopje modernization to around 10%. Thus, given the significant delays and cost escalations
during implementation (delaying benefits five years and costing nearly 10% more in dollar
terms), as well as current traffic levels one-third of those predicted at appraisal, the ERR is
estimated to be zero.
B. Rolling Stock
8.4   The acquisition of rolling stock covered all four RTOs and accounted for the largest share
of Bank-financed investments. Without these investments the SAR estimated a significant
shortfall in rolling stock capacity once scrapping plans and productivity increases were accounted
for. The main benefits are due to cost savings from traffic that would otherwise need to be
carried at a higher cost by road, i.e., the "without project" scenario of the SAR assumed that
road transport would need to be substituted for the volume of traffic that the rolling stock would
have carried. For each type of rolling stock, a comparison was made between the incremental
costs to the railway in carrying the traffic which the new rolling stock carried, and carrying the
same by road transport. In freight heavy trucks were used for comparison, and in passenger
traffic a weighted average of bus and car costs (75%, 25%) was used. Rates of return were
calculated for each individual RTO; however, since results fell within a narrow range, the SAR
used a composite rate of return for all rolling stock investments weighted by the costs of each
type of stock. The overall rate of return on rolling stock investments was estimated to be 26%
on per unit basis. The possibility of increased axle-loading with the new rolling stock was not
included as part of the appraisal economic analysis.
8.5   In 1984, RTO Belgrade asked the Bank to replace the track doubling of the Ostruznica-
Batajnica by-pass with an investment in freight rolling stock and facilities for passenger traffic
as part of the Belgrade Junction project (para. 6.2). The Bank agreed that completion of part
of the Junction was economically justified on the basis of the improvements in freight through
traffic rates and improvements in suburban passenger service. However, no formal economic
analysis of the changes was available in the project files, and therefore no basis on which to re-
estimate an ERR exists. The revised works were completed and apparently yielded substantial
benefits, with returns likely above the opportunity cost of capital (i.e., greater than 10%).
8.6   During implementation, much of the stock was eventually procured, albeit with delay.
In terms of non-procurement, RTO Novi Sad had the largest shortfall-only 40% of planned
1090 freight wagons and neither of the two diesel locomotives were procured.  Ultimately,
availability of locomotives, both electric and diesel deteriorated during the project period.
Freight wagon availability targets were achieved in Belgrade and Skopje, and nearly reached in
Novi Sad, whereas Sarajevo, after achieving the target in 1986, dropped in 1990 due to civil
unrest. Availability of passenger coaches never reached appraisal expectations. Since individual
per unit costs figures are not available it is not possible to assess the re-estimated ERR of the



- 14 -
rolling stock investments. However, since operating targets were generally not fully achieved,
and traffic was substantially lower than expected, per unit returns would be at best proportional
to traffic. Based on this, an estimate of the ERR on freight rolling stock would be between one-
third to one-half of appraisal estimates or around 10% . The figure is lower for passenger rolling
stock due to the poor utilization rates for the stock that was purchased, i.e., below 10%.
C. Track Overhaul and Upgrading
8.7   The originally envisaged track overhaul of about 700 km of main lines accounted for a
major portion of project investments.  In addition, some of the costs savings due to the
depreciation of the dinar were put to expanding the length of track subject to overhaul by 10%.
The principle economic benefits from this component were attributable to savings in track
maintenance costs, as well as savings in equipment and rolling stock costs through higher
operating speeds. Delays in starting overhaul works were significant. A severe shortage of
local funds and the need to maintain operations on main truck lines during construction greatly
slowed several of the track overhaul components (paras. 6.5-6.9), delaying benefits. Overall,
none of the twelve track overhauls were completed on time. Information from project files
indicates that the majority of the scope of initial overhaul work was eventually completed.
Overall, costs were also higher than expected.
8.8   The appraisal methodology for the rate of return calculation on track overhaul depended
heavily on expected maintenance savings and lowered operating cost from track improvements.
In hindsight, the estimates of costs savings appear overly optimistic-maintenance costs were
estimated to be, in some cases, nearly four times as high in the "without project" scenario: only
track in a severe state of disrepair could justify such estimates. A more realistic estimate of cost
saving would probably have been around 50%. The methodology also depended on prices for
steel and other materials and real installation costs rising only modestly above 1980 levels. The
price of both rose dramatically during project implementation, although a series of devaluations
allowed for a 10% expansion of the length of track overhauled. On the other hand, separate
estimates of improvements in rail safety from overhaul (i.e., lower rates of derailment) were not
included in the appraisal benefit stream, and probably should have been. Unfortunately, data
on actual maintenance cost savings and operating savings are not available, and it is therefore
impossible to accurately recalculate an ERR for the overhaul component. However, under the
assumption of a 10% decrease in costs, operating costs savings proportional to traffic (i.e., one-
third of appraisal estimates), an average five-year delay in benefits, and maintenance costs
savings of around 50% over the "without" project scenario, the ERR for a representative section
of overhauled track (Stalac-Trupale, RTO Belgrade) was recalculated at 1 % against the appraisal
estimate of 20%.  Generalizing from  this result, the re-estimated ERR for the overhaul
component as a whole would likely fall in the range of zero to 5 %, as compared to an appraisal
estimate of 29%.
D. Electrification
8.9   The project includes the extension of electric traction on three sections of line belonging
to RTO Belgrade and electrification of the Bosanski-Nov-Knin line (RTO Sarajevo), which has
largely been destroyed. Investments were justified at appraisal based on operating cost savings,
as well as increased capacity due to higher speeds and increases in net payloads. With respect



- 15 -
to the extension of electric traction along three sections belonging to RTO Belgrade, only 63 %
of the 30 km of appraised track slated was completed at project close and traffic was
significantly lower than expected resulting in negligible returns (i.e., an ERR of 0%).
E. Feasibility Studies
8.10  The project included technical assistance for a feasibility study on Integrated Transport,
a component estimated at appraisal to have an ERR of 21 % Ultimately, little of this component
was implemented and, while implementation varied across RTO, only $US2.1 million of a
planned $US27.0 million dollars was spend on this component. Therefore, while it is difficult
to assess the ultimate benefit of this component, it is likely to be very low, and probably zero.
F. Overall Economic Rate of Return
8.11  Taken together, project components representing Bank-financed items (estimated at
appraisal to cost 27.1 billion dinars) had an overall estimate ERR of 19% (Table 8). As the
SAR states, all project items had acceptable First Year benefits and were therefore justified on
the basis of existing traffic. With full benefit of hindsight, the traffic forecasts were overly
optimistic, significantly lowering the longer-term benefits of the project. In addition, almost all
benefits were delayed due to project startup problems. The significant depreciation of the dinar
during project implementation lowered project costs in dollar terms, and ultimately resulted in
a modest expansion of project investments. There are no figures available for the breakdown
of local and foreign exchange costs, and because of the extreme change between in the
dollar/dinar exchange rate during the life of the project, no meaningful estimates of actual costs
are available.
8.12  The SAR relied on RTO-specific forecasts for freight and passenger growth rates of
around 3% for freight and 2% for passenger traffic through 1986, followed by slightly lower
rates in the longer-term. Actual rates of growth were negative. Thus, the economic justification
for railway investments, particularly those required to provide capacity, did not materialize. At
appraisal, it was assumed that traffic would continue to grow as it had during 1976-80, whereas
in fact it declined sharply due to the economic restructuring which affected railways throughout
Eastern and Central Europe, and eventually due to the breakup of Yugoslavia. While it was not
possible to foresee all these events at appraisal, it is possible that a comparison with trends in
Western Countries would have yielded a more conservative traffic forecast.  Given the
uncertainties, it would have been prudent to include a "pessimistic" traffic forecasts, and to have
highlighted the issue as project risk.
8.13  At appraisal, the ERRs for individual project components varied from 12% to 34%, as
opposed to the re-estimated values of 0% to 10%. Overall, the weighted rate of return to
overall project investments is re-estimated at less than 5 % against the appraisal estimate of 19 %.



- 16 -
IX.   Consulting Services
9.1    The technical assistance component of the project with a proposed investment of
US$0.5 million was relatively minor, but important (Table 9). It covered mainly the study of
methods for a gradual increase of mainline speed on Yugoslav Railways to bring them in line
with other European railways, and some additional work to conclude the studies started under
the Fifth Railway Project (Loan 1534-YU) in connection with the maintenance of Electric
locomotives. The latter was successfully completed although the results of its implementation
have not been apparent as the availability of locomotives fell during and after the project. It is
also possible that some improvement would have become noticeable if there had not been large-
scale damage to motive power and railway workshops and sheds during the war.
9.2    As far as the study for improvement of speeds is concerned, the report was sent to the
Bank in June 1988 for review. The Bank's principal comment was that raising line speeds is
only one of several ways of achieving the fundamental commercial objective of shortening train
journey times. YR were recommended to clarify possible actions based on their economic
priority.  Firstly, the greatest benefit is achieved at least cost through organizational and
managerial measures to reduce train stopping time. The second greatest benefit is achieved
through selective technical measures, e.g., straightening curves, etc. It is unlikely that any
significant increases in train speeds took place.
X.    Sustainability
10. 1  Although the project was carried out during a difficult period, the essential parts of the
project were physically implemented, albeit with delay. However, the destruction of as yet
undetermined subprojects as a result of the hostilities, together with a continuing lack of
maintenance over the last few years, make it difficult to determine whether the project remains
sustainable and whether any benefits of the project can be maintained over a period of time. In
areas where hostilities has had less of an impact on project investments, steady and significant
drops in rail traffic (Table 5 and Figures 5.1 and 5.2) and the poor financial performance of
project entities, make the financial sustainability of project investments unlikely and institutional
gains negligible.
XI.   Bank Performance
11.1  Due to the fact that this project covered four separate autonomous railway systems in
SFRY, each with its own project, action plans and targets, the time spent on project preparation
at over 191 staff-weeks, including 39 staff weeks the field (Tables 10-12), was relatively heavy.
For supervising the project, the Bank spent over 106 staff-weeks, including 45.5 staff weeks in
the field. This was therefore a carefully prepared project which was well monitored. A review
of the project files reveals that the Bank responded promptly to requests for alterations in the
project and for reallocation of funds. Due to the fact that SFRY was overtaken by internal
troubles towards the end of the project, no written instructions were given to the Borrower for
preparation of the data for the Project Completion Report. This has resulted in serious shortage



- 17 -
of data for the preparation of this document. Conditions in Yugoslavia remain unsettled and the
retrieval of reliable information is still extremely difficult.
11.2 The general level of supervision by the Bank missions was high, largely due to the need
to supervise what was de facto four separate projects. The Bank's follow-up of compensations
and tariff reviews was consistent as well as persistent.  The Bank mission also displayed
extraordinary resourcefulness in participating in and resolving the contractual problems of RTO
Skopje in connection with the signalling and telecommunications installations (para. 6.7). In
addition, Bank missions carried out, fairly thoroughly, detailed reviews of the various studies
which were central to the improvement of the railways' performance.
XII.  Borrower Performance
12.1  Each of the four RTOs (Belgrade, Novi Sad, Sarajevo and Skopje) supervised their
individual parts of the project independently, but the overall coordination was done by the CYR
which also carried out the technical assistance element (including studies), the procurement, loan
administration and periodic reports to the Bank. This arrangement worked fairly well, although
the different RTOs managed their projects with varying degrees of competence, with perhaps
Sarajevo clearly in the lead. Compared to the Bank's experience around the world, Yugoslav
Railways were, relatively speaking, quite sophisticated and carried out the feasibility and other
studies in accordance with well established practices. As a matter of fact, substantial reductions
in the project were possible as a result of the evaluations of the subprojects.
12.2  Economic difficulties made it difficult for the Borrower to find sufficient local funds.
This delayed project implementation and resulted in a late conclusion of the project (para. 6.6).
Another result of the shortage of local funds was the increased utilization of the Bank loan which
was made easier by the devaluation of the Yugoslav dinar.
12.3  The project was designed to increase freight carrying capacity (para. 2.4), and comprised
a set of investments and plans of action geared to cope with steady increases in traffic. The
project really did not foresee the possibility of a fall in traffic, the outbreak or war, or the steps
that would need to be taken in this eventuality. In fact, traffic increases were initially lower
than forecast and from 1989 onwards, there was a sharp decline following the economic decline
and hostilities. Staff reductions planned were not achieved even though traffic actually fell, and
most of the productivity improvements forecast did not materialize. Institutional gains were also
adversely affected by the withdrawal of RTOs from CYR following the breakup of Yugoslavia.
XIII. Project Relationships
13.1  Bank relationships with the Government and the various agencies dealing with the
implementation of the project were generally satisfactory.  The procurement process was
properly executed, although there was disagreement between the Bank and the Borrower in some
instances.  Such issues were satisfactorily resolved in accordance with the procurement
guidelines of the Bank. Periodic reports from the Borrower were received fairly regularly,
although often with delays.



- 18 -
XIV. Documentation and Data
14.1  The Staff Appraisal Report was the basis for framing the legal documents, and provided
the take-off point for the terms of reference for consulting services and for the supervision of
the civil works and procurement. Given the eventual duration of the project (more than seven
years), the changes in the Bank's supervision teams, changes in the Government and the
Borrower's management, the SAR also provided a frame of reference concerning the project
origins, and for alterations and amendments to the project content, which ensured that the basic
objectives of the project were maintained.
XV. Findings and Lessons Learned
15.1  This was a conventional railway project in the sense that it concerned itself mainly with
the improvement of the railway's performance, and its main components were the investments
in track rolling stock, electrification signalling and telecommunications, etc., investments which
were all eventually completed. The larger goal of institutional reform in the railway system had
been a concern in the Bank for nearly a decade previous to the approval of this loan. The
Bank's appraisal mission accordingly concentrated its efforts in examining the justification for
the various investments, while at the same time reinforcing upon YR the need to improve its
market competitiveness through improvements in productivity and cost effectiveness, and
reducing government subsidies to the railways.
15.2  The various financial targets in the Action Plans were based on tariff increases and
increases in traffic which never materialized. As for the productivity targets, such as staff
reductions, availability of motive power and rolling stock, wagon turn-around time, etc., it
would appear these were fixed without considering the linkage between the investments and the
indices, which appear to have deteriorated (rather than improved) as the investments took place.
There is no doubt that this was at least in part due to the unsettled conditions existing in the
country, resulting in economic decline and reduced traffic. But equally, perhaps, appraisal
forecasts of freight traffic were over-optimistic. More significantly, the ability of the Borrowers
to undertake difficult financial reforms, especially during an increasingly unstable political
situation, was probably overestimated. A more detailed sensitivity analysis during appraisal for
the projected traffic growth and its effects on the ERR calculations would have given a better
picture of the risks associated with this project.
15.3  In 1982, when this project was appraised, the Bank had not yet gotten involved in any
serious restructuring or privatization of its railway borrowers. However, it did make serious
efforts at improving the institutional set up of the railways and other transport entities. This
project, on the other hand, concentrated on financial and productivity improvements, relying on
CYR to coordinate the railways where required. The Bank appears to have accepted the clearly
inefficient institutional set up of the Yugoslav Railways as unsurmountable.
15.4  Wi.;i the benefit of hindsight, the situation was too complex and power too diffused for
real policy or political reform. RTOs and CYR could handle technical components but not



- 19 -
policy changes such as tariffs and compensation. Demand forecasts proved unrealistic. Civil
unrest and political instability was certainly one factor.
15.5  It appears, in hindsight, that full political agreement to the financial targets of the project,
especially the linkage between tariffs and compensation, and the implied labor force changes,
had not been obtained. Without being critical of this project, the Bank should learn to recognize
these types of situations and seek a clear agreement with the govermnent for changes which the
railway does not have the authority to implement.
XVI. Overall Project Rating
16.1  On the face of it, the project deserves an unsatisfactory ratUng. Despite the lack of
detailed data it is clear that traffic shortfalls and project delays, combined with failure of
government to implement policy changes with respect to tariffs and compensation would have
produced rates of return below the satisfactory level. That said, however, there are a number
of factors (many unpredictable) that had important impact on outcomes. First, of course, were
the hostilities which had severe adverse impacts on the project, however capably managed.
Second, and even less predictable, was the ending of CMEA trading arrangements in the
formerly socialist CEE economies. Finally, the UN imposed an embargo on Serbia and
Montenegro. Over the period 1989 to 1993 rail freight traffic in these countries has fallen
approximately 40 percent and passenger traffic has fallen approximately 20 percent: Slovenia,
which escaped most of the strife, has mirrored these trends (Figures 5.1 and 5.2). No matter
what happened in Yugoslavia, rail traffic would have fallen significantly and no reputable
forecaster could have predicted the outcome, even as late as early 1989.
16.2 The project was, for the most part, fully committed before publication of "The Railway
Problem" (1982). The Bank's knowledge of how to identify and deal with railway restructuring,
as opposed to simpler investment projects, was not at the stage in which it is today. It is
reasonable to argue that physical delays could have been foreseen and that the Bank should have
carried out a more complete sensitivity analysis with respect to traffic growth. The major
experience with railway restructuring in the developed world (US, Japan, UK, France, Germany,
etc.) were years in the future, and there was no experience then available for restructuring in
the developing world. In retrospect, the Bank did not have the tools or the experience to
diagnose the underlying problems or deal with them effectively at the time this project was
appraised.



20
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(No comments were received from Borrower)



21
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
PART III
STATISTICAL DATA



- 22 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS
(US$ Millions)
Title             Loan Nc.        Year of         Original       Amount              Comments
Approval        Amount         Disbursed
First Railway Project         361            1963           35.00           35.00        Closed December 1967
Second Railway Project        395            1964           70.00           70.00        Closed March 1973
Third Railway Project         531            1968           50.00           50.00        Closed December 1975
Fourth Railway Project        1026           1974           93.00           92.66        Closed June 1981
Fifth Railway Project         1534           1978           100.00          99.53        Closed May 1984
Montenegro Earthquake         1769           1979           14.00           13.96        Closed June 1984
Rehabilitation Project
(Railways)
Kosovo Railway Project        1977           1981           34.00           29.97        Closed December 1986
Seventh Railway Project       3068           1989           122.20           Nil         Loan was lapsed
prior to effect-
iveness due to the
disturbed conditions
in Yugoslavia
Source: IBRD Statement of Loans Feb. 29, 1992 (Vol. II).



- 23 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                   Date Planned                 Revised Date                Actual Date
Identification                                                                      December 1979
Preparation                                                                         March 1980
May 1981
October 1981
First Project Brief                                                                 June 15, 1981
Appraisal Mission               Jan./Feb. 1982                                      March 1982
Loan Negotiations                                                                   May 9 to 20, 1983
Board Approval                  October 1982                                        July 19, 1983
Loan Signature                                                                      October 5, 1983
Loan Effectiveness             February 1, 1984             April 2, 1984
June 15, 1984          June 15, 1984
ILoan Closing                   June 30, 1988               June 30, 1989           June 30, 1991'
June 30, 1990
June 30, 1991
Project Completion           December 31, 1988                                      December 31, 1991
Time Elapsed from
Date of First Project
Brief through Actual               7 years                                                 10 years
Closing Date
'/ Loans 2336-1 and 1336-2 were closed on June 30, 1990 and Loans 2336-0 and 2336-3 were closed on June 30, 1991. The
Loans were fully disbursed after canceling an amount of US$3.74 million on March 21, 1988.
Source: Bank Files
Comments
1. Appraisal: The issues "compensation" and "tariffs" were the subjects of long-lasting dialogue with the Government and the
railways resulting in slowing down project preparation.
2. Loan Effectiveness: Delay was caused by lack of tariff action in accordance the Loan Agreement and difficulties in obtaining
undertakings from two of the four Republican Governments for provision of investment funds.
3. Loan Closing: The loans were closed at different dates (see footnote above) in order to allow the completion of (i) equipment
delivery (RTO Belgrade), and (ii) the implementation of the signalling component in RTO Skopje.
July 1991.



- 24 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 3. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year           Appraisal Estimate         Actual Disbursement        Actual as % of Estimate
1984
March 84                             6.6                         0.00                        0.0
June 84                              12.1                        0.27                        2.2
1985
September 84                        20.4                         0.27                        1.3
December 84                         28.6                         5.52                        19.3
March 85                            33.3                        11.82                        35.5
June 85                             44.8                        15.23                        34.0
1986
September 85                        53.7                        27.46                        51.1
December 85                         60.5                        39.28                        64.9
March 86                            61.5                        45.60                        74.1
June 86                              71.7                       53.10                        74.1
1987
September 86                        82.1                        58.89                        71.7
December 86                         90.2                        68.42                        75.9
March 87                            92.7                        83.42                        90.0
June 87                              99.4                       90.01                        90.6
1988
September 87                        106.1                       91.89                        86.6
December 87                         110.0                       93.14                        84.7
March 88                                                        94.91                        86.3
June 88                                                         95.21                        86.6
1989
September 88                                                    95.39                       86.7
December 88                                                     96.78                        88.0
March 89                                                        97.13                       88.3
June 89                                                         97.77                        88.9
1990
September 89                                                    99.08                       90.1
December 89                                                     101.83                      92.6
March 90                                                        103.38                      94.0
June 90                                                         104.67                       95.2
1991
September 90                                                    105.01                      95.5
December 90                                                     105.45                      95.9
March 91                                                        105.72                      96.1
June 91                                                         106.10                       96.5
1992
September 91                                                    106.26                      96.6
/ US$3.74 million was canceled on March 21, 1988, and the final disbursement was made on September 5, 1991.
Source: Bank Files, September 1991.



- 25 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 4. OPERATIONAL TARGETS
Appra)i.
Op Iaka TYrFIII                                                                                                    Elia!                                  ACtIU                                Aeluald
Fe. 1986                              I 19[g m                              1990
N-re   oSaff S Tw Y-re-d                                   RTO Be                                                   24.734                                27,158                              26,276
RTO NS                                                   1160                                  13.315                              12,190
RTO S                                                    1.615,                               16,962                               21.051
RTO Sk                                                   5I1C0                                 5.,79                                5.062
Perid-1viy of Labk                                         RTO Be                                                    353                                   307                                  294
(OM Trffic Ui pr                                          RTO NS                          95 NS                                                            0B                                  255
E.pbyre)                                                  RTO S.                                                    4136                                                                       275
ITO Sk                                                    200                                   242                                 204
A-alubilby  f Elcuc                                        RTO Br                                                    8S                                    71                                   64
LorarcOete (%)                                           RTO NS                                                     93                                    s0                                   74
ITO S.                                                    EN                                    SI                                   71
RTO Sk                                                    90                                    62                                   80
A-alabilcy or D-rel                                        ITO Be                                                     85                                   64                                   65
Lge0-ea  (Y)                                             RTO NS                                                    90                                     66                                   70
RTO S                                                     89                                    10                                   39
RT0O Sk                                                    8                                    71                                   73
Anil.baly of Pa-epge                                       RTO Be                                                    83                                     73                                  69
CObe (!)                                                  RTO NS                                                    9_                                    81                                   69
RTO S.                                                    92                                    82                                   70
RTO Sk                                                    97                                    16                                   02
A-e.ls1,iy of Fegri                                        RTO Be                                                    92                                    97                                   92
WaIge  (Y)                                                RTO NS                                                    95                                    91                                   9_
RTOU5                                                     93                                    93                                   85
RTO Sk                                                    92                                    92                                   94
er ie.4o  Ter Ear-  L-c                                    RTO B, T-r--e',r                                          503                                   550                                  589
De Oay Aarbl.                                                rIrig                                              336                                   325                                  329
RTO NS. psarenW                                           615                                   664                                 632
le`i&l                                            375                                   401                                  329
RTO S.. peer                                              554                                   785                                 607
f_9N                                 1~~~~~~~~20                           433                                  423
RTO Sk. p-r                                               515                                   6537                                 569
frigI                                             400                                   338                                 449
Eeginkei pr Dioel Lo                                       RTO Be. puneer                                            507                                   444                                  535
Deerot Ocy nealablr                                              ferigh                                             265                                   255                                 271
RTO N5. Fpaarr                                            460                                   225                                  369
,-mp                                              540                                   350                                 297
RTO S..rP.,                                               205                                  236                                   320
freirl                                            195                                   246                                 268
RTO Sk, p.afo r                                           430                                   534                                  40D
fregh                                             330                                   329                                 262
T-o    -1aeni Ter- of Pregi                                RTO Be                                                   3I 0.3                                                                      4 4
Wage (DOy,)                                                RTO NS                                                    21                                    23 434
RTOS:                                                     2                                     3 I                                 4 1
RTO5k                                                     24                                    28                                  28
Ncl Ton he:Cayacpy of                                      RTO B                                                     15 2                                  13.5                                12 1
Fri,tWaor. (10T-wI)                                      RT0O NS                                                    160                                   [35                                 104
RT05                                                    15 1                                   12A                                 95
RTOSk                                                     I4                                    83                                  68
Kr4 pr D o per P-aae                                       RTO Be                                                    385                                   345                                 433
Coah Aea,Iablr                                            070 N5                                                   414                                    265                                 704
RTO 54                                                    400                                   363                                 390
RTO Sk                                                    315                                   312                                 298
Seal uas-o  of Paarger                                     RTO Be                                                     58                                    54                                  58
RT0 N5                                                    64                                    74                                   4
RTO  S                                                    60                                    47                                   48
RTO Sk                                                    59                                     0                                   61



- 26 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORTS
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 5. RAIL TRAFFIC
Appraisal                                       Appraisal    Actual             Annual
Estimate                                        Estimate                 Growth Rate 1980-85
1982        1982        1983        1984        1985         1985      Estimate % Actual %
I  Freight Traffic
(million ntkm)
Domestic             10,000        9,702      10,009      11,170      10,241        xxx          3.1        xxx
International         3,960        3,520       3,740      4,100       3,973         xxx          3.1        xxx
Total                13,960       13,222      13,749      15,270      14,214        xxx          3.1        xxx
II. Passenger Traffic
(million pass.km)
Domestic              4,900        4,801       5,126       5,145      5,180       5,250          2.7        3.0
International          485           412         355        328         490         292          0.9       -0.9
Total                 5,385        5,213       5,481       5,473      5,670       5,542          2.6        2.1
III. Traffic Units
(millions)           19,345       18,435      19,230      19,772     20,940       19,756         3.0        1.8
Actual                                    Annual
Growth Rate 1980-90
1986        1987        1988        1989        1990         1991      Estinate % Actual %
I  Freight Traffic
(million ntkm)
Domestic             10,215        9,722       9.619       9,426      7,972         xxx           -         -1.8
International         3,703        3,291       3,158       3,393      3,142         xxx           -         -1.1
Total                13,918       13,013      12,777      12,819      11,114     xx,xxx           -         -1.6
II. Passenger Traffic
(million pass.km)
Domestic              5,531        5,307       5,044      5,411       5,352       x,xxx           -         2.1
International          298           280        303         327         378         xxx           -         -2.1
Total                 5,829        5,587       5,347       5,738      5,730       x,xxx           -         1.4
III. Traffic Units
(millions)           19,747       18,600      18,124      18,557      16,844     xx,xxx           -         -0.7
1/ For the four RTOs under the Project
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and Bank Files
December 1991
xxx : Figures not available.



- 27 -
Figure 5.1
Freight Traffic in CEE Countries
Relative to 1990 Levels
1.60  ________________________________________                -4-+ Bulgaria
1.60  .Czechoslovakia
U) 1.40                                                         -*--- East Germany (DR)
1.20                                        2                           > HungaryI
C1.00                                                            * Poland
0
I-0.80                                                          -0O-- Romania
0.60                                                          -      Turkey
0.0 .'Slovenia
LL 0.20 -
0.00-    ,         ,.        ., .     
1982     1984      1986      1988      1990      1992
Year
Figure 5.2
Passenger Traffic in CEE Countries
Relative to 1990 Levels
1.40                                                          -     Bulgaria
---    1_Czechoslovakia
E  1.00                                        -*-- ~~~~~~~~~~~East Germany (DR)
E  00                                                                 Hungary 
0 0.80                                     9                       _ -:.--- Poland
--Romania
C) 0 60         .                                   -.    I-X- Turkey
0  0.40          :--'- Slovenia                                                           l
IL 0.20
0.00
1982      1984       1986      1988       1990      1992
Year



- 28 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 6. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Overating  Ratio 1/                  Return on Net Fixed Assets
Appraisal    |Appraisal
RTO                      Year             Estinate            Actual 2/           Estimate           Actual 2/
Belgrade                 1982                137                 142                 2.8                1.6
1983                131                142                 4.2                 1.1
1984                120                121                 3.2                 2.2
1985                115                124                 3.5                 3.6
1986                109                118                 2.9                 5.5
1987                105                136                                    0.9
1988                101                132                                    2.2
1989                97                 155                                    -2.2
1990                94                 193                                   -20.0
Novi Sad                 1982                135                 98                 4.0                 2.6
1983                126                166                 12.2                0.3
1984                113                132                 11.4               11.9
1985                108                133                 10.0               10.2
1986                101                147                 11.4                7.0
1987                99                 151                                     5.3
1988                95                 128                                    15.9
1989                92                  97                                     1.6
1990                89                  3/                                     3/
Sarajevo                 1982                106                 106                 1.1                1.0
2983                105                 102                2.0                 1.4
1984                98                  88                 2.9                4.1
1985                94                  88                 4.0                 3.7
1986                90                  87                 4.9                4.0
1987                89                 109                                    -1.8
1988                87                  96                                    0.9
1989                85                 108                                    3.5
1990                85                 121                                    -5.8
Skopje                   1982                135                 156                2.7                -5.1
1983                125                127                 3.7                -2.6
1984                117                118                 3.4                -2.0
1985                108                104                 3.3                3.8
1986                103                101                 3.0                4.7
1987                100                113                                    0.4
1988                97                  91                                    2.8
1989                94                 103                                     1.7
1990                91                 115                                    -1.0
1/ Operating expenses divided by operating revenues (excluding compensation payments).
2/ Based on audited financial statements.
3/ RTO Novi Sad was merged with RTO Belgrade.



- 29 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 7. STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
Loan              Description                                                                      status
Agreement
Reference
3.04(e)           Project Completion Report                                                        Not complied (disturbed country conditiora).
3.06(b)           Annual review of the investment plans by the                                     Complied with in the initid yea.
borrowers with CYR and forward them together with                                Later superseded by plans
the related financing plans to the Bank.                                         prepared for the Seventh Railway
Project (Loan 3068-YU)
4.06(a)           Annual review, update and reporting of progress of                               Complied with up to the end of the
the action plans.                                                                original project completion date, later
reports sent irregularly and with delay.
5.02(a)(b)        Financial statements and audited reports to be                                   Complied with delays.
submitted within eight months of the end of the fiscal
year.
5.04(a)(i)(A)     Increase the average level of freight, passenger and                             Inadequately complied, and
other tariffs initially, not less than 10% over the                              with delays.
average level of tariffs in effect as of March 1, 1983
plus the increase in cost levels between January 1,
1983 and the time such increase shall take effect, as
measured in the Producer Price index.
5.04(a)(ii)(B)    Increase the average level of freight, passenger and                             Pardy complied with.
other tariffs at the beginning of each of the years                              For 1990: Complied with, however,
from 1985 to 1990, not less than 6% over the average                             due to an agreement with the IMF,
level of tariffs in effect as of the beginning of the                            railway tariffs were frozen since
immediately preceding year plus the increase in cost                             Decanber 25, 1990. The covenant
levels during the inimediately preceding twelve-month                            was superseded by a new
period, as measured in the Producer Price Index.                                 covenant under the Seventh
Railway Project (Loan 3068-YU), which was
not implemented.
5.04(a)(ii)       Annual revenues obtained through freight, passenger                              Not complied with (see PCR, Table
and other tariffs shall be sufficient to achieve                                 6, Financial Performance).
operating ratios shown in the Loan Agreement.
5.04(b)           Annual revenues to cover a) all                                                  Partly complied
operating expenses, debt amortization,                                          (see PCR section on
adequate increases in working                                                    Financial Performance)
capital, contributions to reserve
and other authorized funds and
finance an average of the last
of Part A of each borrower's investment
plan during the period 1983-1986 of
not less than
- 31% for RTO Belgrade
- 46% for RTO Novi Sad
- 48% for Sarajevo
- 27% for RTO Skopje
Source: Supervision Reports
October 1991



- 30 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 8. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
F.g~~~~~~. ~~Plodod Cd.0(d
0-aER 19%                                O..dER  0-5
1. T. 0-b d  U. L  SW-up..}
(no Dd-)                                                               16
2. T..t O.d  ( dhl Li. S-Tnq.                                                                                      1
mm OW-&)                                                               20
3. T.& 0t4 d 1X Li. WE Pw 
V.1 Pk. (ITO S                                                         17
*. T,A O-. 0 (k Ll. M    Kn-
M     (RTO bdr.)                                                       37
S. T, 0-ko 0_ 1 Lk NU. D_ Dibgd
mmT B**-)                                                              it
6. C.1k 0d0Da T.k* .  Li U.                                                                                        N/A
c.*.9N     _..k... (ItTO b1pd1.&                                       30
7. E     0( Blk T, e T- l- - 1. SIc.                                                                                10%
R     _, Mob K,-Pd- K      d
NI-C.I (T.J 3701. RrT BOb)                                             20
L Io    I. R.&-DLqwdft Sy  .                                                                                         5%
M8. Ll_ (RTO Wdg1k)                                                    19
9T 1k 0..  d d U.1 P.- Akp._
KMWb1t-R0   P..d N6o MM NM. 34                                         34
10. T,.r k.. 0__  d. Li. NM5  Bo._
(KM No.l S.                                                            II
II. T.* 0,1.  rd. Ll_ _.*hw
(ITO No. 3d                                                            16
12. T,. 0_ d 0(k Lk. b e-4..
(KM NMd S1)                                                            22
13. T.M  O..sd 0(t1 U. 3-  No.-.1.
(IRTO 3k.o)                                                            I
14.T TO 3 0 dU Ll_ TI.                                                   17
V.h4.OpI  (IRTO Skq.4)
is. Tnk k0_A 0(tk U. TI,.                                                I_
V_-lK   MITO Skp3
14. I.W.1  M. 3SI11diiq                                                  12                                          5S
T    __m....1I- E_    r 11. . Thev V.k.rlo.
.ad TC .e 1k U.. T.b1Xko j.0M) SI..)
(7. P1WMNky kAdy. Imrm.d                                                231                                        0%
T-.1 (n. .11 dk 4 WM   3. 11 F.).)
ii. A.1kl. 0( MR   n34.   (41140. ..                                     26                                        - 10%
o.k PoP A       Pd l
Estimates should be interpreted with caution, because they are based on incomplete information.



- 31 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 9. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & STAFF TRAINING
Type of                     Purpose as Defimed                                      Impact of
Action                      at Appraisal x/             Status                      Study
Follow-up on the Study      To implement thc            The study was               Study results were
for the improvement of      recommendations of the      delayed and was             not satisfactorily applied
Electric Locomotive         study to improve            completed by mid 1987.      due to unsettled
Maintenance and             locomotive maintenance.     The quality of the study    conditions in the country.
Operation.                                              was satisfactory.
Study of methods            To improve mainline         Study was performed         Good study.
adopted by railways in     speeds to a maximum          satisfactorily and          Recommendations not
other European             of 160 mph.                  received by the bank. Its    implemented due to
countries for the gradual                               recommendations were not   disturbed conditions.
increase of mainline                                    implemented.
speeds by
improvements in fixed
installations, in traction
and rolling stock and in
timetables.
Staff training.             Staff training in           This was started after      Implemented.
maintaining signaling       some delays but
and telecommunications      implemented.
installations, including
the provision of
equipment, car controlled
locomotive utilization
etc.
Source: Supervision Reports
October 1991



- 32 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 10. STAFF INPUTS
A - AT HEADOUARTERS
Stage of          Month/                               No. of       No. of            Staff Weeks
Project Cycle     Year                                  Staff        Weeks         at Headquarters
Pre-appraisal     March 1980 - February 1982            2.5           42.4               106.0
Appraisal         March 1982 - April 1983                3            25.3                75.8
Negotiation       May 1983 - October 1983                 1           9.4                  9.4
Sub-Total                                                             191.2
Suwervision
-do-        FY 1984                                 1           17.5                17.5
-do-        FY 1985                                2            11.4                22.8
-do-        FY 1986                                5            4.7                 23.5
-do-        FY 1987                                4             3.4                13.6
-do-        FY 1988                                 1           6.0                  6.0
-do-        FY 1989                                4            3.4                 13.6
-do-        FY 1990                                 1           7.8                  7.8
-do-        FY 1991                                 1            1.5                 1.5
Sub-Total                                                             106.3
Total                                                                 297.5
Source: Bank's MIS
December 1991, revised June 1994.
Comments
The actual manpower is estimated to be for the equivalent of 2.9 loans due to duplication of work and visits to four
borrowers.



- 33 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 11. STAFF INPUTS
B - BANK MISSIONS
Stage of              Month/                   No. of       No. of       Staff Weeks    Date
Project Cycle         Year                     Staff         Weeks         in Field      of Report
Preparation           May 1980                   3             2              6          July 15, 1980
Pre-appraisal         October 1981               4            1.5              6         November 12, 1981
Appraisal             March 1982                 4             4              16         April 22, 1982
Supplemental          July 1982                  2            0.5              1         July 30, 1982
Supplemental           November 1982             3             2              6          December 2, 1982
Review                March 1983                 2             2              4          March 30, 1983
Sub-Total                                             39 1/
Supervision
1.           September 1983             1             1               1         October 19, 1983
2.            March 1984                2             1.5             3         April 24, 1984
3.           July 1984                  1            0.5            0.5         August 10, 1984
4.            October 1984              1             2               2         October 17, 1984
5.            May 1985                  3             3               9         July 24, 1985
6.           October 1985               3             2              6          November 22, 1985
7.            December 1985             1             2              2          February 19, 1986
8.           April 1986                 2            0.5              1         May 2, 1986
9.           February 1987              3             3              9          March 24, 1987
10.           April 1987                 1            0.5            0.5        April 22, 1987
11.           October 1987               1            2               2         December 16, 1987
12.           October 1988               2            1.5             3         December 9, 1988
13.           September 1989             1             2              2         November 21, 1989
14.           April 1990                 1             3              3         May 4, 1990
15.           March 1991                 1            1.5            1.5        April 30, 1991
Sub-Total                                             45.5
Total                                                 84.5
1/ All missions were combined with supervision with supervision of other on-going projects.
Source: Bank Files and Supervision Reports
December 1991, Revised June 1994



- 34 -
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIXTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Loan 2336-YU)
TABLE 12. STAFF INPUTS
C - MISSION DATA
Mission         MonthfYear         No. of    Days in        Specializations    Performance      Type of
Persons     Field         Represented          Status       Problems
________   _________            1/                2/             3/
Preparation     05/80                 3          14        ECO, EGR, FA
Pre-appraisal   10/81                 4          10      ECO, EGR, FA, TC
Supplemental    03/82                 4         28       ECO, EGR, FA, TC
Supplemental    07/82                 2          3            EGR, FA
Review          11/82                 3          13        ECO, EGR, FA
03/83                2          14           EGR, FA
Sub-Total                       82
SuDervision
1.        09/83                 1          7              EGR                  -
2.        03/84                 2          11            EGR,FA                2            F, P
3.        07/84                 1          3              EGR                  2             F
4.         10/84                1          12             EGR                  2            F, M
5.        05/85                 3         21          ECO,EGR,FA               2            F, M
6.        10/85                 3          11         ECO,EGR,FA               2            F, M
7.         12/85                1          13             EGR                  2            F, M
8.        04/86                 2          3            EGR,FA                -4/
9.        02/87                 3          16         ECO,EGR,FA               2            F, M
10.        04/87                1          3               EGR                -5/
11.        10/87                1          15              EGR                 2              F
12.        10/88                2          11           EGR,OA                 2              F
13.        09/89                1          15              EGR                 2              F
14.        04/90                1          21              EGR                 2              F
15.        03/91                1          11              EGR                 2              F
Sub-Total                      173
Total                          255                          11
Keys
I/ ECO  = Economist, EGR = Engineer, FA = Financial Analyst, TC   Technical Consultant, OA = Operations
Assistant
2/ 2 = moderate problems
3/ F = financial, M = managerial, P = political
Comments
4/ Limited supervision on tariffs and bidding documents
S/ Mission on one technical aspect.
Source: Bank Files and Supervision Reports
July 1991, Revised June 1994



- 35 -
TABLE 13. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.   Achievement of obiectives          Substantial          Partial         Neliizible          Not apDlicable
(W)               ()                 (                    ()
Macro policies                          l                 l                 1i                  I
Sector policies                       E                  E                 x                    E
Financial objectives                                                                            I3 E 
Institutional development             E                  E                 l                    E
Physical objectives                     l                 l                 a                    o
Poverty reduction                     E                  O                 E                     o
Gender issues                                            EEl                                    [Xl
Other social objectives               E                  E                 E                     x
Environmental objectives              E                  E                 E                    I
Public sector management               n                 El                lx                   E
Private sector development            E                  E                 E                     x
Other (specify)                       El                 E1 
B.   Proiect sustainability                   Likely                     Unlikely                  Uncertain
(0/)                      (0/)                        (0)
Hiehly
C.   Bank verformance                       satisfactory               Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                            E                          [                          El
Preparation assistance                    X                          E                          E
Appraisal                                 E                           x                         E
Supervision                                [                                                    El
Hiahlv
D.   Borrower Performance                   satisfactorv               Satisfactorv                Deficient
(0/)                      (0/)                        (0/)
Preparation                               E                          l                          E
Implementation                            El                          0                          0
Covenant compliance                       E                          E                          I
Operation (if applicable)                   llx                                                 El
Hiahly                                                       Hi&&hv
E.   Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory       Satisfactorv        Unsatisfactory         Satisfactory
El                 El                                        El V)



Table 14. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - RTO Belgrade                                                       Page 1 of 4
1983        1984         1985         1986         1987         1988        1989         1990         1991      Completion
Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual         %
COMPLETION OF 1976-80 PLAN
1. Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                                 100
2. Other Investments                                                                                                                                              100
SIXTH BANK LOAN
1. 237 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                          80
2. Locomotive Spare Parts Later Added                                                                                                                             100
3. Machinery for Line Maintenance                                                                                                                                 100
4. Radio Dispatching Equipment                                                                                                                                    100
EIB LOAN
1. 34 Km Construction of Lines I/                                                                                                                                 100
OTHER ITEMS IN PART A
1. Infrastructure
30 Km Electrificabion                                                                                                                                          63
49 Km SS & TT Equipment                                                                                                                                        17
61 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                           77
Reconstruction of Lines                                                                                                                                        78
2. Rolling Stock
Electric Locomotives                                                                                                                                          100
35 Diesel Shunters                                                                                                                                             71
12 Electric Motor Trains                                                                                                                                      100
23 Standard Passenger Coaches                                                                                                                                 100
3000 Freight Wagons                                                                                                                                            81
Reconstruction of Rolling Stock                                                                                                                                12
Fully Depreciated Rolling Stock                                                                                                                               227
Automatic Stopping Equipment                                                                                                                                   0
3. MisceDlaneous Investment
Integrated Transport                                                                                                                                           3
Workshop & Depots                                                                                                                                             106
ECC Equipment                                                                                                                                                  18
Studies and Designs                                                                                                                                            80
Investments of Boals                                                                                                                                           33
Track Maintenance Equipment                                                                                                                                   105
1/ Substituted by Belgrade Junction.
Source; Bank Files
February 1992



Table 14. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - RTO Novi Sad                                                   Page 2 of 4
1983        1984        1985         1986    l   1987        1988         1989        1990        1991      Completion
Actual      Actual      Actual       Actual      Actual      Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual        %
COMPLETION OF 1976-80 PLAN
1. Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                           100
2. Other Investments                                                                                                                                        100
SIXTH BANK LOAN
1. 177.5 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                75(99) 1/
2. Locomotive Spare Parts Later Added                                                                                                                        0
3. Machinery for Line Maintenance                                                                                                                           100
EThB LOAN
1. 49 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                    100 2/
OTHER ITEMS IN PART A
1. Infrastructure
18 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                    100
Reconstruction of Stations                                                                                                                               6
2. Rolling Stock                                                               K        i
5 Electric Locomotives                                                                                                                                  100        w
2 Diesel Locomotives                                                                                                                                     0
5 Diesel Motor Trains 3/                                                                                                                                100
28 Standard Passenger Coaches                                                                                                                           143
1090 Freight Wagons                                                                                                                                     40
3. Miscellaneous Investment
Integrated Transport                                                                                                                                     12
Studies and Designs                                                                                                                                     26
Investments of Boals                                                                 |                                                                   82
Emergency & Track Maint. Equip.     l           l_l_l_l                                                                                                  4/
1/ Track Overhaul increased to 234.5 Km, percent in bracket relate to original 177.5 Km.
2/ Expenditures from 1986 onwards included in 177.5 Km Track Overhaul financed by the Bank.
3/ EMUs instead of DMU purchased.
4/ Financed by the Bank.
Source: Bank Files
September 1991



Table 14. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - RTO Sarajevo                                                        Page 3 of 4
1983        1984         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989         1990         1991     Completion
Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual       Actual         %
COMPLETION OF 1976-80 PLAN
1. Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                                  100
2. Other Investments                                                                                                                                               100
SIXTH BANK LOAN
1 130 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                            100
2. 178 Km Electrification                                                                                                                                          100
3. 178 Km SS & TT Equipment                                                                                                                                        100
4. Locomotive Spare Parts                                    _
OTHER ITEMS IN PART A
1. Infrastructure
23 Km Electrification                                                                                                                                           0
51 Km SS & Tr Equipment                                                                                                                                         0
41 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                            13
Reconstruction of Stations                                                                                                                                      34
2. Rolling Stock
6 Electric Locomotives                                                                                                                                          80        w
20 Standard Passenger Coaches                                                                                                                                  100         oD
4 Sleepers                                                                                                                                                     100
1350 Freight Wagons                                                                                                                                             90
3. Miscellaneous Investment
Integrated Transport                                                                                                                                            5
Workshop & Depots                                                                                                                                               73
ECC Equipment                                                                                                                                                   24
Studies and Designs                                                                                                                                             27
Investments of Boals                                                                                                                                            52
Track Maintenance Equipment                                                                                                                                     0
Source: Bank Files
November 1991



Table 14. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - RTO Skopje                                                       Page 4 of 4
1983        1984         1985        1986         1987        1988         1989        1990         1991     Completion
Actual      Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual         %
SEXTH BANK LOAN
1. 143 Km SS & TT Equipinent                                                                                                                                   85
2. Locomotive Spare Parts                                                                                                                                      38
K1IB LOAN
1. 12 Km Track Overhaul 1/                                                                                                                                    100
2. 143 Km Electrification                                                                                                                                      100
OTHER ITEMS IN PART A
1. Infrastructure
15 Km Track Overhaul                                                                                                                                       78
Reconstruction of Stations                                                                                                                                 65
Reconstruction of Lines                                                                                                                                    89
2. Rolling Stock
2 Electric Locomotives                                                                                                                                     0
3 Diesel Shunters                                                                                                                                          0
3 Diesel Motor Trains                                                                                                                                     100
11 Standard Passenger Coaches                                                                                                                              91         w
192 Freight Wagons 1/                                                                                                                                     130
3. Miscellaneous Investment
Integrated Transport                                                                                                                                       21
Investments of Boals                                                                                                                                       44
Other                                                                                                                                                     149
I        I           I            I           I            I    _    _    _    _     _  _    _    _     _
1/ Transfer of 60 wagons from Part B into A agreed in July 1985.
Source: Bank Files
September 1991



- 40 -
Table 15. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                            Page I of 2
A- PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Local       Foreign       Total        Local       Foreign        Total
-     USS Million  -                    -   USS Million    ---
Investment to wbkh Loan Allocated
Track Overhaul                                84.3         72.9        157.2                                   163.0
Electrification                               11.5         12.9         24.4                                   21.7
Signalling & Telecommunications               10.0         17.8         27.8                                   29.7
Locomotive Spare Parts                        2.1          11.5         13.6                                    4.5
Machinery for Line Maintenance                0.0          0.0          0.0                                     8.1
Radio Dispatching Equipment                   0.0          0.0          0.0                                     0.8
Sub-Total                    107.9        115.1        223.0                                   227.8
Physical Contingencies                        10.6         10.4         21.0
Price Contingencies                          22.9          24.3         47.2
Total                    141.4         149.8       291.2                                   227.8
Other Items of the Investment Plans
Completion of the 1976-80
Investment Plans                            19.0         15.1         34.1                                   13.1
Track Overhaul and Line Reconstruction       39.1         28.3          67.4                                   66.8
Reconstruction of Stations and Junctions      14.5         10.6        25.1                                    48.1
Electrification                               6.3          5.6          11.9                                    6.9
Signalling & Telecommunications               5.5          9.2          14.7                                    2.9
Traction and Rolling Stock                   121.1        115.5        236.6                                   241.2
Integrated Transport                          14.8         12.2         27.0                                    2.1
Miscellaneous                                47.2          18.4         65.6                                   37.1
Sub-Total                    267.5        214.9         482.4                                  418.2
Physical Contingencies                        13.8         8.8          22.6
Price Contingencies                           38.4         32.0         70.4
Total                     319.7        255.7        575.4                                  646.0
Technical Assistance                          0.1          0.4          0.5                                     0.5
Grand Total                   461.2        405.9        867.1                                   646.5



- 41 -
Table 15. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                             PMc 2 of 2
B - PROJECT FINANCING
Source                                                   Planned                                  Actual
USS Million                   %        USS Million                    %
Internal Funds 1/                            335.0                       38.4         N/A
Grants                                        78.1                        9.0         N/A
Loans                                         169.2                      19.4         N/A
Suppliers' Credits                            174.8                      20.0         N/A
World Bank                                    110.0                      13.2        106.26                      96.6
Total                                      867.1                      100.0        646.5                       74.6






IBRD 1 s46C
A   U   S   T   R   I  A                                                                                                                                                   JUNCTION ,     . 8EGRD
- -3 =t = = ,^vt HU NI GA R Y  * i >-. . .+ udH                   U      NonA  R       Y
s t ~~~~B              O S  NIA  G  - "P\
,,              t   s -^n n                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H E R   09    V I N                                                  l>o                            7
,,             ~YUGOSLAVIA- -.                                                                      M0NTE      a                  j             .i )                              ' 
RAILWAY  INFRASTRUCTURE -  si '  .   
RAILWASYSG                                                             J                          
N.-ro G....                                        ta5  <~- Wo 
@AN>Z FINANCE  POET.                                                                ,0,                           ro       ,L 
Elcficogwod SS-TT
--- SSenoeo TT'   do CTC                                                                                                                            C   
.1RPb-  -dA.-Nr
\_.o  aw           GREECE









IMAGING
Report No:       15214
Type: PCR



