1
PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWorld Froe of Povorty
_
-lfoShop
,¢i Ww ,d Buk
Report No AB46
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                AFGHANISTAN-National Emergency Employment Program - Rural Roads
Region                      South Asia Regional Office
Sector                      Other social services (50%); Roads and highways (50%)
Project ID                  P082472
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANSTAN
Implementing Agency         MRRD/MPW
Address                     Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD)
Address' Kabul, Afghanistan
Contact Person Honorable Minister Hanif Atmar
Tel      Fax'       Email
Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
Address Kabul, Afghanistan
Contact Person' Honorable Minister Abdullah Ali
Tel      Fax       Email:
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           April 18, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         April 18, 2003
Bank Approval Date          June 24, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Emergency Livelihoods and Social Protection Needs
Economic activity is showing signs of a start-up. The Afghan economy grew by nearly 10 percent last
year. Agricultural production is projected to grow due to significant rainfall and snow this year after a
prolonged drought. Yet despite positive projections, Afghanistan remains among the poorest countries of
the world. Significant progress has been achieved in starting the reconstruction and development effort.
Yet almost a year and half hence the tangible effects of this effort are not visible to the Afghan people.
The government needs to reinforce its role in all parts of the country and be apparent as the facilitator of
positive change.
With nearly 80 percent of the rural population living on subsistence level incomes, poverty and
vulnerability being endemic, rapidly improving livelihoods remains the main challenge.
Despite improvements in agriculture, employment opportunities in rural areas are very limited. Border
crossing restrictions with Iran and Pakistan have reduced opportunities for Afghan migrant labor. Return



2
PID
of refugees and internally displaced populations has further stressed the labor market. Little opportunity
is being afforded to the reintegration of ex-combatants under these circumstances-and even less to the
vulnerable female and disabled population. The resulting rural to urban migration is also stressing the
cities.
Based on experience in the past eighteen months, there is a large range of vulnerabilities. Programs
targeting single vulnerabilities (such as food, shelter, etc.) are assessed by the government as not being
the most efficient means to make a timely and wide spread impact. Desperate and irreversible coping
strategies" are still being employed by many Afghans. Although the food shortages are still being
experienced in many parts of Afghanistan, the food security has improved. Field evidence suggests that
support to livelihood reconstruction through methods other than food aid is required on an emergency
basis if the (estimated) 4-5 million vulnerable Afghans are to rebuild their shattered lives and if the
government is to further secure its reach outside Kabul.
These strategies are reflected in the following trends/information gathered during last year's vulnerability
assessment and mapping by WFP. Higher land sales and mortgages; small farmers' indebtedness and reliance on
larger land owners, distress sales of household assets, tools, farming equipment, and livestock; early marriage of
pre-pubescent daughters and indentures of young boys for labor by families.
Government's Livelihoods And Social Protection Strategy
The government's overall Livelihoods and Social Protection strategy includes two large priority
sub-programs: the National Solidarity Program (NSP) and the National Emergency Employment Program
(NEEP). The NEEP and NSP target the following outcomes: a) infuse cash into local economies to
increase purchasing power for basic needs; b) empower individual citizens and communities across the
country to become involved in the reconstruction process with a focus on rural areas; c) use scarce
resources efficiently by having communities select what they need and by reducing overheads associated
with multiple layers of government and international agencies; d) reinforce and lay the basis for a local
democratic decision making process, involving men and women; and e) assist in the reintegration of
returnees and ex-combatants into their recipient communities.
The NSP is a longer term Community Driven Development (CDD) program that provides grants to
communities to improve/reconstruct public infrastructure, other community assets; buy training or
technical services; support participatory planning and strengthening of local governance structures; and,
provide a mechanism for linking community development needs with line agency and NGO service
providers.
Complementing this on an emergency basis, the government has launched the National Emergency
Employment Program (NEEP) to provide a timely, efficient, self-targeting, and widespread,
cash-for-work based social safety net. NEEP activities will involve a wide range of sectors-roads,
irrigation, natural resource management, soil conservation, reforestation, etc.-and themes-targeting
women and disabled; and include capacity building to improve delivery and monitoring and evaluation.
Progress with the National Emergency Employment Program
The government launched the NEEP in late 2002 by financing labor intensive road maintenance and
rehabilitation sub-projects on a pilot basis. This was funded through a component of the IDA Grant for
Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project (ECEPWP). This pilot is focused on
rural road repairs and is being successfully implemented. An IDA supervision mission has recently (in



3
PID
early March 2003) visited sub-project sites in 5 out of the 16 provinces and has found the quality of
works to be good and the labor selection/employment mechanisms to be robust. Some improvements are
being made with active support from on-going monthly IDA supervision.
Since the start of work in late December 2002, US$ 2.6 million have been committed on 159 rural
road-repairs sub-projects which are underway in 16 provinces. The sub-projects currently being
implemented are expected to generate approximately 1. I million man-days of labor and have an average
sub-project labor content of 74 percent. These sub-projects are repairing 1,754 km of rural roads. Larger
works (up to US$ 200,000 per sub-project, with an expected average of US$ 75,000 per sub-project) have
also been identified in several provinces and will begin to be contracted out to small local-contractors
within a month.
Key Issues To Be Addressed - Some areas for improvement have been identified during IDA supervision
of the NEEP pilot. More work needs to be done to ensure that wage levels are set below market rate, so
as to enable self targeting of vulnerable groups. The system of project selection, while being relatively
transparent, needs to be strengthened in the area of evaluation criteria in order to improve targeting. The
program also requires the support of a more rigorous vulnerability assessment.] The entire sub-project
labor employment cycle, while assess as being satisfactory, could be improved by adding details in the
project implementation manual regarding labor payment systems and currencies; safeguarding labor
intensity; and, monitoring labor selection and rotation. The repaired roads need to be handed over to the
accountable administration and their maintenance included in future budgeting exercises (hence also
providing opportunities for second-round employment benefits). The program design should start to
address the need to provide employment opportunities for women and disabled in the sub-projects.
Overall monitoring and evaluation including an improved MIS is required.
Impact and Disbursement Projections - Together, the already-committed IDA and the ARTF funds are
projected to provide nearly 8 million man-days of labor by undertaking 763 sub-projects that will repair
nearly 5,740 km of rural roads and tracks. The projected delivery cost"' to the government of the NEEP
pilot is expected to be around US$ 1,500 per labor-year of employment provided.
21
Revision of the vulnerability assessment is being prepared with support of a multi-donor team involved in
preparing the TOR for this work.
As a readily available comparison, delivery cost on similar projects was in the range of US$ 3,000/labor-year in
Algeria.
Projections based on the current rate of progress indicate that the remainder of the ECEPWP funds
available for labor-intensive works will be committed within the next 2 months (US$ 8.75 million).
Beyond these IDA funds, the government has mobilized US$ 16 million for rural road sub-projects from
the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). There is a strong probability that these funds will be
fully committed by the end of August 2003. Additional funds are required thereafter to continue the
program.
Government's request to the Bank
In the new national budget document, the government has requested donors for US$400million for
scaling up the NEEP and NSP programs for the period until mnid 2004. The government has requested
IDA support to help extend and expand the on-going labor-intensive rural roads activities of NEEP, with
an increased focus on tertiary roads and tracks given the large needs and potential for employment
creation in this category of works.



4
PID
The government hopes to also attract other donors (in parallel) to support NEEP for employment
generation in other sectors. To coordinate this effort, the Government has also requested IDA to support
capacity building of the NEEP Coordination Unit of (NEEPCU) MRRD to allow the ministry to take on
this new role. This project is being prepared in response to these requests.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed National Emergency Employment Program - Rural Roads
project is to contribute to rural poverty reduction and to facilitate economic and social recovery of
Afghanistan.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The government considers the Bank to be a key partner through provision of finance and knowledge in
supporting its livelihoods and social protection program.
The Bank through the ECEPWP has gained valuable operational experience in developing and
implementing a workable mechanism to deliver such a social protection program in Afghanistan. This
places the Bank in the position to provide the much needed additional resources to the government within
a short time frame given the emergency nature of the government's request. The World Bank, together
with the European Commission, is also the focal point nominated by the government for the Consultative
Group on Livelihoods and Social Protection program, which is chaired by the MRRD.
The Bank has substantial design and operation experience of similar emergency social protection
programs using labor-intensive public works in other post conflict countries in recent years, among
others East Timor, Bosnia-Herzegovina, West Bank and Gaza, and in the monitoring and evaluation of
Active Labor Market Programs (ALMP).
The proposed project is in line with Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) approved in March 2003 by the
Executive Directors. The TSS highlights Improving Livelihoods as one of four pillars of Bank assistance
to Afghanistan.
4. Description
The project development objective will be achieved by: a) the creation of productive emergency
employment opportunities in maintenance and rehabilitation of the roads infrastructure, thereby also
providing a social safety net for poor people in Afghanistan; b) using appropriate labor-intensive methods
in order to ensure high labor content of the works to be financed; and c) building capacity of government
to implement the project and manage its overall NEEP.
Project Performance Indicators - To track project outputs, a set of indicators will be finalized and
agreed during appraisal. Possible indicators include days of employment provided; delivery cost per
labor-year of employment provided; km of roads repaired; number and length of bridges and culverts
repaired; and, amount of incremental non-Bank funds channeled through NEEP.
The project will comprise two components: i) labor intensive rural roads sub-projects and ii) technical
assistance to support management of the project and the overall national emergency employment
program (NEEP).
Component 1: Labor Intensive Rural Roads



5
PID
The project will finance sub-projects for labor intensive maintenance and rehabilitation of
roads-primarily secondary and tertiary roads. These sub-projects will be spread over all the 32
provinces, and will expand the reach and supplement the on-going projects financing NEEP
Component 2: Technical Assistance for NEEP
The technical assistance to NEEP will involve building the capacity of the MRRD to establish and
operate a National Program Coordination Unit sufficient to manage the overall program including this
project. The TA will fund consultant's services, incremental operating costs, some works (office building
rehabilitation/refurnishing) and goods, for the NEEP. Activities currently being proposed for funding
include the development of the NEEP framework with the various stakeholder ministries, development of
national guidelines, and a national data-base/MIS for NEEP, assistance with the national vulnerability
assessment, and preparation of a monitoring and evaluation system and a financial management system
for NEEP including this project. The government has developed a draft strategy document for NEEP.
This component will support the entire NEEP.
Rationale For Proposed Proiect Design
Emergency Considerations Callfor Focus on Activities Ready for Appraisal - The government has
limited capacity in preparing large projects suitable for donor assistance. The existing labor-intensive
rural roads activities can be rapidly scaled up without extensive additional preparations. Preparation of
activities in other sectors such as irrigation, soil conservation, reforestation (targeted where possible on
female and disabled employment), are in nascent stages and would require more extensive preparation
work in particular to fully assess more complex environmental and social impacts. Therefore it is
proposed to go ahead with the more advanced rural roads sectoral program, while supporting through
technical assistance capacity-building of program management in other sectors.
Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Reiecting Them
Targeting of Women and Disabled - Targeted women and disabled employment programs are not easy to
integrate in labor intensive road works. While the project will incorporate the provision of women
employment to the extent possible, based on Afghanistan's cultural norms, it may not be the best vehicle
for targeted provision of mass women's employment. Other projects, under NEEP or under other
government programs, would target women more explicitly.. Similarly, as the repair and maintenance of
roads primarily requires the input of an able-bodied workforce, there will be less opportunities for the
disabled to participate in the mainstream of these works. While, to the extent possible, the project will
use methods that facilitate the participation of the disabled, other components of NEEP will be more
effective in reaching these groups (such as small entrepreneur development, vocational and skill
development projects, etc.).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                   $0.00
IBRD
IDA                        $12.00
EC: EUROPEAN COMMISSION           $1 5.00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT $30.00
Total Project Cost         $57 00



6
PID
6. Implementation
Two ministries will be involved in the implementation of the project: The Ministry of Rural
Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD) and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). Both ministries will
implement the project using an "implementation contractor".
Component I Labor Intensive Rural Roads - These will be implemented through the MRRD and MPW.
MRRD will be responsible for the tertiary roads and tracks, whereas the MPW will be responsible for
secondary roads. The ministries will contract the implementation out to a third-party to assist in the
various tasks related to sub-project preparation and implementation (sub-project selection process,
sub-project design, contracting, supervision, payments, and monitoring and evaluation).
Component 2. Technical Assistance for NEEP - The project will be coordinated by the MRRD's national
coordination unit for the NEEP. MRRD will also execute the TA to the NEEP.
Implementation Arrangements.
Disbursement and financial management procedures agreed with the Bank and being used on the
ECEPWP will be followed for the proposed project.
A decision on continuing with UNOPS, or conducting a competitive selection of a new
"Implementation/Delivery Contractor" for the project, will be made by the government during appraisal
in consultation with the Bank and in accordance with Bank policies.
7. Sustainability
This is an emergency project aiming to mitigate consequences of the prolonged conflict, and the issue of
sustainability needs to be addressed more fully by follow up operations in the sector. As a first step, the
IDA-financed Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project includes a Road Sector Review aiming at
identifying appropriate policies, recurrent funding sources and institutional arrangements to address
sustainability of rural roads, among other issues.
By providing employment opportunities across provinces and distributed fairly across the many different
vulnerable groups, this project can contribute to the reduction of current problems of livelihoods of the
most vulnerable groups in Afghanistan and indirectly contribute to internal stability.
The project's Technical Assistance component will contribute to the overall sustainability of the program
by assisting the government to develop its capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate the overall
NEEP. This will assist in the transition from the emergency efforts to a more sustainable rural
infrastructure delivery and maintenance program using labor-intensive methods.
Benefits
Through the project, improved access will be provided to local markets, education and health services,
and employment opportunities . This will be done by maintaining and rehabilitating rural roads. By
focusing on maintaining and rehabilitating infrastructure assets, the project will have a positive effect and
impact on the social and economic well being of the population.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector



7
PID
The following lessons from past Bank social protection operations in active labor programs that involve
Public Works Programs have been utilized in the project design.
Public works programs appear to help the severely disadvantaged groups in providing temporary
employment and a safety net.
The wage rate in such labor intensive public works programs should not be set higher than the prevailing
market wage for unskilled manual labor in the setting in which the scheme is introduced. If rationing
(because demand for work exceeds the budget available at the wage set) is required then the program
should be targeted to poorer areas first (as indicated by available tools such as vulnerability assessments,
poverty maps, etc).
The labor content (share of wage bill in total cost) should be higher than normal for similar projects in
the same setting. How much higher will depend on the relative importance attached to immediate income
gain versus (income and other) gains to the poor from the assets created/repaired. This usually varies
from setting to setting. Assets repaired should be of maximum value to the poor people in the area.
Performance in cash infusion and poverty reduction should be monitored with careful evaluations. This
should include ensuring that a performing safety net program has: low cost of participation, low
administrative costs, low incentive costs, and efficient and relatively effective targeting.
In essence, this project is justified by the need to extend and expand an existing successful field
operation in Afghanistan. Some issues that have emerged during the implementation and that have been
incorporated into the project design by supporting the capacity building component for NEEP are as
follows:
*  Setting target wage rates
*  Labor payment systems and currencies
*  Careful monitoring of the labor intensity
*  Better monitoring of labor selection and rotation systems
*  Mechanisms for providing materials and tools
*  Improving the labor intensity of larger projects contracted to private sector
*  Integration of repaired road assets into the overall road system with some planning for future
maintenance
*  Proper handing and taking over of works
*  Incorporating needs for female and disabled employment in the sub-project influence area
*  Improving the balance between political considerations and people's needs
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues  : The project aims to address an urgent social issue - rural unemployment, and should
have mainly positive social impacts by providing income opportunities and improving access to services
of vulnerable groups.
The project has been assessed to be a Category B project because of potential, but not significant,
adverse environmental effects associated with the rural road rehabilitation projects. This is consistent
with the rating adopted for the ECEPW project. An environmental management plan will be prepared for
the larger projects, allowing necessary corrective measures to be built into the emergency projects.



8
PID
The principles governing social and environmental management will be applied through the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (the Framework) already appraised and in use on the
ECEW project. The Framework will be applicable to all activities financed under the proposed project,
and includes (i) key policy principles for social and environmental management, (ii) tools to guide the
screening of subprojects for significant social and environmental impacts, and to assist in the mitigation
of such impacts, (iii) procedures to ensure that these principles and tools are appropriately applied, and
(iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring. Procedures related to land-mine risk management
are in the process of being added to the framework. The Framework will be made operational through the
proposed project's arrangements for implementation, capacity-building, and monitoring.
The maintenance and rehabilitation interventions envisaged under the proposed project are not expected
to generate significant negative environmental effects. Rather, they are expected to contribute to the
improvement of environmental conditions. However, limited adverse impacts could result from
inadequate design and construction practices. To limit the potential of such risks, the Framework
includes a negative list of activities ineligible for support under the proposed project. To mitigate other
potential impacts, the guidelines and codes of practice included in the Framework provide social and
environmental mitigation measures to be incorporated in subproject design, contracting, and monitoring.
No activities that require involuntary land acquisition or the acquisition of land requiring the resettlement
or compensation of more than 200 people will be supported. Consequently, no Resettlement Action Plan
will be required under the proposed project. The voluntary donation or compensated contribution of land
for subproject activities will be guided by the "Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements
and Compensation" included in the Framework. The Framework which is now in-use under the ECEPWP
has been made publicly available in Afghanistan and in the World Bank's Info Shop.
Project Processing Schedule
The project will be processed under Emergency Procedures. This will involve proceeding directly from
project concept/PID clearance to appraisal, preparing the technical annex, MOP and Development Grant
Agreement right after appraisal, negotiations and finally a streamlined Board procedure.
The current project processing schedule indicates that if the project is appraised and negotiated
back-to-back between April 17 and May 10, the projected can possibly be ready for Board presentation
before the end of June 2003. However, this optimistic schedule is hinged on a highly effective
preparation effort by the government's team, and may slip into July-September 2003, which would delay
the availability of funds for a critical program.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Amer Zafar Durrani
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433



9
PID
Telephone (92-51) 9090226
Fax: (92-51) 2279648
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web. http 11 www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending.  04/16/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH| LREEASCK           EL5ZIIZi [HOWCA5E           i 



