                                                                                               38680

Introduction

 1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes to the Afghanistan National Emergency Employment Program for
Rural Access Project (Cr-3779-AF and H054-AF) (P082472) and any accompanying
amendments to the project's legal documents, specifically the Development Financing
Agreement(DFA) dated June 30,2003.

2.      The proposed restructuringwould support the recommendations o f the Mid Term
Review (MTR) of the project and o f the Seventh Quality of Supervision Assessment
(QSA7) and are inresponse to a written request from the Islamic Republic o fAfghanistan
(the Borrower) dated December 11, 2006, for restructuring and amendment to the
Development Financing Agreement betweenIDA and the Borrower dated June 30,2003
and as amended on September26,2003, October 27,2004, andMarch 29,2005.

3.      It is proposed to again retroactively amend (as o fJanuary 1,2005) the DFA to: (i)
redefine the Project Development Objective (PDO) and update the project's perfonnance
and output indicators; (ii)add new priority activities; (iii)add new disbursement
categories to provide financing for these activities (for an amount up to US$ 2,600,000
approximately); (iv) reallocate funds among the categories set out in Schedule 1 to the
Development FinancingAgreement; and (v) update the thresholds o f certainprocurement
methods.

4.      The original Credit and Grant amount' and the previously amended closing date2
will remain unchanged. The proposedamendment to the PDO is a refinement to make it
more results-oriented and to align it with the actual development outcomes realizedso far
duringproject implementation.

Background

5.      The project was approved on June 24, 2003 and became effective on July 22,
2003. The original project development objective as defined in the Development
Financing Agreement is: "To assist the Borrower in providing targeted social protection,
and in the improvement of key rural access infrastructure, for the improvement of
livelihoods of the rural poor in the Borrower's territory through the provision o j (9
emergency short-term employment opportunitiesfor thepoor in labor-based rural access
infrastructure     improvement Subprojects; and fii) technical assistance for                     the
implementation of the National Emergency Employment Program (NEEP).

6.      The original project design consisted o f the following components: (A) labor-
based rural access sub-projects; and (B) technical assistance to support the Government's
National Emergency Employment Program (NEEP).

'As per the Development Financing Agreement Cr. # 3799 - AF / Grant # H054 - AF, dated June 30,
2003.
  Through letter of October 27, 2004 the Association established September 30, 2007 as the new Closing
Datedfor the Project.


                                                   1

Part A: Labor-based Rural Access Infrastructure:

(a)     The carrying out by Ministryof Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD),
utilizing the services o f an implementation partner (United Nations Office for Project
Services, UNOPS), o f sub-projects for the maintenance and rehabilitation o f tertiary rural
access infrastructure, including: (i)  provision o f consultants' service and training; (ii)
acquisition o f equipment and goods; and (iii) for sub-projects; and
                                                grants

(b)     The carrying out by Ministry o f Public Works (MPW), utilizing the services of an
implementation partner (UNOPS),           o f sub-projects for secondary rural access
infrastructure in all provinces of the Borrower's territory, including: (i)    provision o f
consultants' services and training and the acquisition o f equipment and goods; (ii)
erection o f removable bridge structures for the restoration o f rural access in critical
locations; and (iii)grants for sub-projects.

Part B:Technical Assistance for NEEP:

(a)     The provision by MRRD, utilizing the services o f an implementation partner, o f
assistance to the Joint Program Management Unit (JPMU)and its provincial structures,
namelythe Technical Support Units (TSUs) for the strengthening o f JPMU. The NEEP-
JPMU was established with technical support from the International Labor Organization
(ILO).

(b)     The establishment and strengthening of the TSUs through: (i)           provision of
technical advisory services; (ii) for sub-projects; (iii)
                                   grants                        provision o f training; (iv)
acquisition o f equipment andgoods; and (v) studies and surveys.

7.      This project is one of the pillars o f the government's reconstruction program and
i s a substantial contributor to the National Rural Access Program (NRAP). NRAP
evolved fiom the National Emergency Employment Program (NEEP) as a result o f the
Mid Term Review (MTR) which recommended the transition from emergency job
creation to sustainable rural access provision. The project i s recognized for its national
coverage and has been able to mobilize substantial donor support based on its proven
deliveryrecord. Implementation Support Reviews(ISRs) to date have ratedthe project as
satisfactory in terms o f achieving development objective and implementation progress.
The recent QSA7 review ratedproject supervision as overall moderately satisfactory (3).
The reason for this rating was because the task team had missed the opportunity to
officially restructure the project after the MTR, which had led to a realignment o f the
government's and the Bank's project. QSA7 commended the team on its responsiveness
to client needs and adaptability to the country context.        QSA7 rated the fiduciary
supervision as satisfactory (2). Following the MTR recommendations, the JPMU was
restructured and became the Program Development and Coordination Unit (PDCU),
under the joint leadership o f MRRD and MPW. During the last year, the PDCU has
largely taken over management responsibility o f NRAP from the Implementation Partner
which continues to provide substantial technical assistance to the unit. The PDCU has


                                                2

                                                                                     38680

been instrumental in mobilizing additional US$ 66 million in donor support from DFID
(Department for International Development o f United Kingdom), USAID (United States
Agency for International Development), EC (European Commission), CNTF (Counter
Narcotics Trust Fund), and Government's own contribution.

8.      Under Part-A o f NEEPRA, at least 1,400 k m s o f roads and 3,000 m o f cross
drainage structures (including bridges), as well as eight rural airstrips have been
rehabilitated, against targets o f 2,000 km o f road and 2,300 m o f cross-drainage
structures. A minimum o f 2.2 million unskilled labor days o f short term employment
were generated against the original target o f six million labor days. The main reasons for
the reduced number of labor days generated were: (i)    wages were higher than anticipated
during project preparation and (ii) contractor-executed (Level-2) sub-projects were
                                    more
selected, resulting in the creation o f higher quality infrastructure but using more
equipment and less labor input. The reason for the shortfall in kilometers rehabilitated
was the shift to more sustainable and better quality infrastructure, thus raising the unit
costs.

9.      Under Part-B o f NEEPRA, the project has contributed to the development o f the
construction industry in Afghanistan by providing opportunities to local contractors
throughout the country to undertake civil works contracts (Level-2 contracts).        The
project has also directly benefitedthe rural population through community contracting
(Level-1 contracts). Capacity buildingby the Implementation Partner has taken place in
MPW and MRRD where management-level positions are twinned between local and
international consultants. Knowledge o f engineers has been updated through interaction
with international staff, especially on labor-based technologies. With the technical
assistance provided by UNOPS and ILO, there has been considerable skill enhancement
o fthe national staffworking for MRRDand MPW. The national staff have been imparted
on-the-job and dedicated training in survey and design using GPS methodologies,
AutoCAD, general computer use, use o f Levels, Theodilites and Total stations, material
testing, pavement designs using appropriate technologies, labor based techniques,
contract administration, best construction practices, cost estimation and tendering,
contract document preparation, financial planning andbudgets, procurement etc.

Reasonsfor RestructuringandProposedChanges

10.     RevisedProjectDevelopmentObjectivesandKey PerformanceIndicators:
The revised Project Development Objectives (PDO) is in line with the MTR
recommendations, which reviewed the development outcome focus and result framework
o f NEEP. The MTR suggestedthat "to be effective, the Government shouldfocus NEEP
on the delivery of rural infrastructure with an aim to promote rural growth and reduce
rural poverty primarily through theprovision of local access infrastructure. The central
objective of the Program needs to be simpliJied tofocus on rural roads, with nationally
recognizable outputs that are owned at all-tiers of the government. There is a need to
revisit NEEP's role as a social safety net as well as the expectationsflorn the direct
income transfers that are made as part of NEEP. Targeting of the poor and vulnerable



                                             3

under NEEP has not been highZy successful. The NEEP programwas reoriented to de-
                                               "
emphasize the safety net objective and focus more on rural access development. The
program's name changed from National Emergency Employment Program to National
Rural Access Program (NRAP).

11.     It is proposed to rephrase the PDO as follows: "to enable the rural population to
benefit from year-round access to basic services and facilities in the rural areas o f
Afghanistan coveredby the project". The proposed outcome indicators o fthe project will
be (i)improved access of rural communities to basic services and facilities and (ii)
increased rural employment. These targets can be measuredbykilometers o froads, cross-
drainage structureshridges and airfields rehabilitated; and number o f labor days
generated. Most o f the proposed activities have either already been completed or will be
completed by the end o f the project. The project i s expected to fully achieve its revised
objective.

12.     New Activities and AdditionalDisbursementCategory (US$2.6 Million):The
project was prepared in the immediate post conflict situation and it must therefore be
expected that the scope o f the project needs to be adjusted as new priorities emerge.
These priorities could not be foreseen at appraisal but only became apparent as the
situation stabilized. Based on the urgent needs o fthe country, and the above referred shift
in NEEP/NRAP's priorities, the Borrower carried out: (i)      rehabilitation works in eight
provincial airstrips/airfields providing access to remote rural areas which cannot be
connected to the rural road network in the near future and (ii) construction o f the
                                                                   the
MRRD office building. MRRD has become the leading ministry for rural development
and was in need for better and more office space. The new building has enabled the
ministryto house most ofits staffinone location.

13.     The Board approval is sought in order to (i)   formalize the Borrower's on-going
Project restructuring and (ii)authorize the financing for the expenditures already incurred
for the new activities. These activities are incompliance with the project's Environmental
and Social Management Framework. A new disbursement category will be added to
Schedule 1o fthe DFA to provide financing for the mentionednew activities.

14.     RevisedandAdditionalOutputTargets:The revisedoutput targets will be: (i)          a
minimum of 1,400 km of roads rehabilitated, (ii) minimum of 3,000 m of cross-
                                                       a
drainage structure, including bridges, rehabilitated, (iii)a minimum o f 2.2 million
unskilled labor days o f employment generated, (iv) eight airfieldshtrips rehabilitated, and
(v) MRRDoffice buildingconstructed.

15.     Reasons for Revised and Additional Output Targets: The reasons for revised
outputs targets are: (i)wages were higherthan anticipated duringproject design; (ii)   more
Level-2 sub-projects were selected resultingincreation ofmore durable infrastructurebut
at higher construction cost; (iii) need for urgent rehabilitation o f remote access air
                                   the
stripshields; and (iv) the requirement for construction o f the MRRD office building to
consolidate office space.




                                              4

16.     Reallocation of Credit and Grant Amounts and revised NCB ceiling: It is
proposed to reallocate Credit and Grant proceeds among categories taking into
consideration the new activities, the actual expenditures incurred under each category so
far, and best projections for the anticipated expenditures for each category without
changing the total Credit and Grant amounts. The proposed reallocation i s shown in
Attachment 1.

17.     Miscellaneous: Since the signing of the DFA, the name o f the Borrower has
changed from "Transitional Islamic State o f Afghanistan" to "Islamic Republic o f
Afghanistan. In addition, by a letter of June 6, 2006, the Ministry o f Finance was
informed the establishment of a US$2,000,000 ceiling for the procurement o f works
under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for Subprojects. InDecember 2006, it was
decided to raise the NCB procurement ceiling for works even further, authorizing such
procedures for contracts not to exceedUS$5,000,000 equivalent. It i s proposed to reflect
these changes inthe DFA accordingly.

Analysis

18.     The proposed changes and restructuring will not: (i) any effect on the
                                                                 have
original economic, financial, technical, institutional, or social aspects o f the project as
appraised; (ii)  raise the environmental category o f the project or trigger new safeguard
policies; and (iii)involve any exceptions to IDApolices.

 Expected Outcomes

19.     It is expected that the project will fully reach the revised project development
objective and the revised key performance indicators (Attachment 2). The expected
outcomes support the objectives o f the National Rural Access Program and contribute to
improving rural livelihoods in the project areas. The outcome indicators are monitored
bythe PDCUwith the assistanceo fthe IP.

BenefitsandRisks

20.     The major benefits come from increased access of rural communities to basic
services and facilities through rehabilitation and improvement o f rural access
infrastructure. Better accessibility will help integrate the village economy with the
regional and national market and it may facilitate expansion o f rural n o n - f m activities.
Diversification o f household income sources will minimize the household vulnerability
risks. The provision o f and access to social infrastructure, such as schools and clinics,
will also be improved.

21.     The participating communities were selected through a consultative process.
There i s little risk o f geographic miss-targeting as most areas are in need o f improved
access. The wages offered served as a self-targetinginstrument for the poor. Job rationing
is, however, likely as a result o f the large number o f very poor people, and institutional
mechanisms are in place under the project to ensure that priority i s given to the most



                                              5

vulnerable. Options for women to participate in the work-force are promoted, such as
productiono fbuildingmaterials from the home or other socially acceptable locations.

22.     Afghanistanhas been identified as a corporate risk for fiduciary compliance and
the project has had some difficulties to meet the financial management and procurement
standards of the World Bank. The Bank's team has worked closely with the PDCU and
the IP to improve fiduciary management. Financial audits and post procurement reviews
have recently been completed and are in compliance with World Bank fiduciary
requirements.

23.     The security situation continues to be problematic in some areas o f Afghanistan
and there is little the project can do directly to mitigate the security risk. The project
continues to operate inless secure areas becauseo f the potentially large and visible gains
from road rehabilitation works and resultant employment opportunities for the rural
population. The project adjusts its implementationmechanism depending on the security
situation and uses more community-based contracting where contractors are not able to
work. All reasonable measures and precautions are being taken to balance effective
project implementationand supervision with the need to ensure the safety of staff.




                                             6

                                     ATTACHMENT 1

          REVISED CATEGORY ALLOCATION OF CREDIT AMOUNTS

1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of the Grant to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for itemsso tobe financed ineach Category:

                                         Amount ofthe          Amount ofthe            % of
                                        CreditAllocated       Grant Allocated      Expenditures
                                       (ExpressedinSDR       (Expressed inSDR          &&
             Category                     Equivalent)           Equivalent)          Financed

(1) Sub-Grants:
  (a) under Part A.1 of the Project.                               6,599,809.96
  (b) under PartA.2 ofthe Project           9,35 1,471.66                              100%
  (c) under Part B of the Project                                   462,727.20

(2) Goods:
  (a) underPart A.1of the Project                                    371,965.27
  (b) under PartA.2 ofthe Project           1,973,368.30                               100%
  (c) under Part B.of the Project                                    623,923.40

(3) Consultants'services, training
    andaudits:
  (a) under Part A.1. of the Project                               2,425,242.43
  (b) under PartA.2 ofthe Project           2,483,402.62                               100%
  (c) under Part B of the Project                                  1,459,426.50

(4) Incremental OperatingCosts:
  (a) under Part A.l of the Project                                  561,714.50
  (b) underPartA.2 ofthe Project              191,254.09                               100%
  (c) under Part B of the Project                                    168,360.47

(5) Civil Works:
  (a) under Part A.3 of the Project            66,324.43             926,830.27
                                                                                       100%
  (b) under PartA.4 ofthe Project             734,178.90

             TOTAL:




                                               7


                                 ATTACHMENT 2

       The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said
indicators subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association:

ProjectDevelopment Objective:

The proposed revised project development objective is to "enable the rural population to
benefit from year-round access to basic services and facilities in the rural areas o f
Afghanistan covered bythe project.

OutcomeIndicators

The proposed outcome indicators of the project will be (i)   improved access of rural
communities to basic services and facilities and (ii)
                                                   increasedrural employment.

Key PerformanceIndicators

The proposed revisedkeyperformance indicators are:

    1. A minimumof 1,400 kmofroads rehabilitated
    2. A minimumo f3,000 mof cross-drainage structure, includingbridges,
       rehabilitated
    3. A minimum o f 2.2 millionunskilled labor days o f employment generated
    4. Eightprovincial airstripdairfieldsrehabilitated
    5. MRRDoffice buildingconstructed.




                                             8

