ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 AWorld Freo of Poverty
InfoShop
Report No AC33
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/18/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Pro ect Data
Country: AFGHANISTAN                              Project ID: P082472
Project: National Emergency Employment Program -  Task Team Leader: Amer Zafar Durrani
Rural Roads
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 18, 2003       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 24, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m): 12.00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT: 30
Managing Unit: SASEI                              Sector: Other social services (50%); Roads and
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)  highways (50%)
Status: Lending                                   Theme: Other social protection and risk management
(P); Rural non-farm income generation (S); Conflict
prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the proposed National Emergency Employment Program - Rural Roads
project is to contribute to rural poverty reduction and to facilitate economic and social recovery of
Afghanistan.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will comprise two components: i) labor intensive rural roads sub-projects and ii) technical
assistance to support management of the project and the overall national emergency employment
program (NEEP).
Component 1: Labor Intensive Rural Roads
The project will finance sub-projects for labor intensive maintenance and rehabilitation of
roads-primarily secondary and tertiary roads. These sub-projects will be spread over all the 32
provinces, and will expand the reach and supplement the on-going projects financing NEEP.
Component 2: Technical Assistance for NEEP
The technical assistance to NEEP will involve building the capacity of the MRRD to establish and
operate a National Program Coordination Unit sufficient to manage the overall program including this
project. The TA will fund consultant's services, incremental operating costs, some works (office building



2
ISDS
rehabilitation/refurnishing) and goods, for the NEEP. Activities currently being proposed for funding
include the development of the NEEP framework with the various stakeholder ministries, development of
national guidelines, and a national data-base/MIS for NEEP, assistance with the national vulnerability
assessment, and preparation of a monitoring and evaluation system that will include social and
environmental indicators ancl a financial management system for NEEP including this project. The
government has developed a draft strategy document for NEEP. This component will support the
Government's entire NEEP.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is a national project. The public works program will cover all provinces, and will cease
functioning at the end of two years or less since it's purpose is to provide short-term emergency
employment.
B. Check Environmtental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes O No    0 TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             O Yes * No    0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        OYes * No     O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 OYes * No    O TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                * Yes ONo     O TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4 20)                                 * Yes O No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No    0 TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  O Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. Ifinformation is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No significant environmental impacts are anticipated. The Public Works Program only involves repair
and rehabilitation of existing rural roads and related access infrastructure. The project is not expected to
have any land acquisition or other adverse social impacts, but on the contrary significant positive social
impacts regarding improved livelihoods. The project is national in scope with a focus on vulnerable
districts, and this will enable different ethnic groups to benefit from the project. Since the project
involves repair and rehabilitation of existing roads, it will not impact historical or cultural artifacts. The
project implementation manual will include project screening, planning and appraisal formats, which will
record the environmental and social impacts and related mitigation measures for specific sub-projects.



3
ISDS
Monitoring will include reporting on chance archeological finds. The project implementation manual will
be based on the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework agreed between the Government and
the Bank.
The relevant safeguards for this project are Environmental Assessment (OP4.01), Involuntary
Resettlement (OP/BP4.12), Indigenous Peoples (OD4.20), and Cultural Property (OPNI 1.03). For all
four safeguard policies, the project design follows the criteria and norms laid down in the "Revised
Guidance Note on Application of Safeguard Policies for the Afghanistan Program". Because individual
subproject investments are not known in advance, GoA will adopt a programmatic approach, with the
following characteristics:
(a)    Environmental impacts are expected to be those associated with the rehabilitation of rural roads
and reconstruction of very small infrastructure (i.e. culverts, stream crossings, retaining structures etc.).
Such impacts will be addressed by incorporating standard environmental operating procedures into the
project manual and technical training courses. To this end, Environmental Codes of Practice (ECOPs)
will be developed to address environmental issues at design, implementation and maintenance stages.
ECOPs will incorporate mitigation measures which are essentially based on sound engineering, such as
erosion protection, provision of adequate drainage, keeping earthwork to a minimum, prevention of
shallow slope failures, etc. Implementation will be pursued through terms of reference and checklists for
the implementation contractor, who are also responsible for carrying out preliminary environmental
screening through on-site training and dissemination. Potential induced impacts in environmentally
sensitive areas will be assessed and documented in the sub-project planning/appraisal format and
mitigation measures designed and implemented, if applicable. In particular, the project should minimize
the risk of further depletion of forest areas resulting from improved access in provinces such as
Laghman, Kunar, Nuristan, IPaktia, and Badakhshan. The project does not envisage funding for
pesticides or for dams.
(b)    Land Acquisition and Resettlement - The activities to be undertaken under the proposed project
involve rehabilitation of existing secondary and tertiary roads that are not likely to involve any land
acquisition or have any other adverse social impacts. No involuntary resettlement is anticipated.
However, the project's Operational Manual will include a free-standing guideline on land acquisition, and
will include a process framework for managing land acquisition of any type, voluntary or involuntary. If
minor pieces of land are needJed in connection with construction of road structures, they can only be
obtained though voluntary donation (local authorities do not have funds to purchase land), and the
sub-project planning/appraisal format in the Project Technical Manual will include a check-list recording
any amount of land donated, that the land is free of squatters or other encumbrances, and written proof
that the land is provided as a voluntary donation [see Attachment 2(ii) in the project (NEEP-RR)
Safeguards Framework]. Confirmation of voluntary surrender will be a criterion on the proposal review
list and will be supervised by the oversight consultants and independent monitors. Bank supervision
missions will verify that these guidelines are followed.
The experience of the Labor Intensive Public Works (LIPW) component under the ongoing Emergency
Community Empowernent and Public Works Project (ECEPWP) will be reviewed with regard to
environmental issues, land acquisition and other social safeguards issues.
The project will not cause any adverse impacts on minorities, and the overall project design with its
targeting of vulnerable districts within each province will help ensure that different ethnic groups
participate in the project and receive benefits from it. Within districts, inclusion of different ethnic
groups will be addressed through the selection of specific sub-projects so that these include roads that
serve villages inhabited by different ethnic groups After the first year of implementation, an assessment



4
ISDS
will be made of whether this approach has succeeded in providing benefits to different groups in
ethnically mixed districts. Results and recommendations from these studies and project monitoring in
minority areas will be an agenda item in project annual reviews. Project monitoring will also assess
whether within-village minorities are being included among project beneficiaries.
Chance archeological finds will be recorded in project monitoring formats, the implementing agency will
secure the artifact, and the ATcheological Committee will be informed of the find Should the
continuation of work endanger an archeological site, project activities will be suspended until a solution
is found.
Mine Risk Management. Subprojects will not be implemented without appropriate mine-risk
management. Current practices (evolved during field implementation) for managing mine risk have been
robust. A GoA procedure for mine risk management (based on these practices) in World Bank funded
projects has been sent for approval of the Bank Safeguards. Once approved by the Bank and signed by
GoA, this will become a part of the project safeguard framework. All risk assessment and clearance
tasks shall be implemented in coordination with the Mine Action Center for Afghanistan (MACA).
These procedures may need to be amended in the future, depending on evolving circumstances.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No cumulative impacts are expected. The public employment project only covers labor intensive
maintenance and rehabilitation of existing (unpaved) secondary and tertiary roads.
II.D.]c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Increased deforestation induced by improved access is the only potential long term environmental impact
of the project. Althoughi rural road rehabilitation would be limited to improving access to villages, and
thus is not likely to improve access to environmentally sensitive areas, impacts would be carefully
assessed during sub-project preparation and appraisal in those areas, and mitigation measures developed.
If such mitigation measures cannot be reasonably designed and implemented, a sub-project (or part
thereof) would be declared ineligible for financing under the project.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The key fact that is relevant for a proper treatment of safeguards in Afghanistan is that de facto there is
essentially no government implementation capacity. Thus, the approach adopted by this project is to
require issuance of a policy framework that sets down criteria, but then to incorporate safeguard
procedures into the terms of reference and oversight of the agency/consultants and implementation
contractors (such as UNOPS on the existing ECEPWP) who will be managing field activities.
Independent reviews will be provided by National Emergency Employment Program Coordination Unit
in MRRD, and their TORs will also include attention to safeguard issues. Bank missions will be very
frequent for this project, probably on a bi-monthly basis for the first year. They will routinely include a
safeguard specialist (i.e. at least 2 times per year), and safeguard performance will be assessed during
annual programming reviews.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisilis for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an ernphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are the affected villagers. The design of the project itself is one that depends on
extensive consultation throughout the entire process. Disclosure mechanisms include facilitated village



5
ISDS
meetings, inter-village workshops, written and oral media, and a national awareness campaign. MRRD,
which is one of the project lAs, is also overseeing a government-NGO task force on community
development; safeguards, especially proposals for vulnerable minorities, will be one of the items this
addressed by this group.
E. Safeguards Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 5/31/2002     5/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             5/31/2002     5/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              4/18/2003     4/18/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
The dates listed in the above disclosure requirements (under Environmental
Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan) refer to the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework.
The initial version of this Framework, applicable for all Bank supported projects in Afghanistan, was



6
ISDS
translated and local languages (Dari and Pushto) and disclosed in Afghanistan and DC in the Spring of
2002 Thus, it was agreed that the disclosure of the original Social and Environment Safeguard
framework meets the disclosure requirements of this project and is reflected in the above dates. This
project Framework is now revised (without changing the basic principles) to meet the specific
requirements of the proposed National Emergency Employment Program - Rural Roads (NEEP-RR)
project. Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of this
project. This revised framework specific to this project will be discussed and agreed with the
Government during appraisal. In the mean time this draft Framework has been disclosed in Kabul and
DC PIC. The final version will be translated in Pashto, and Dari, and widely disclosed in Afghanistan
prior to the Board date.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Amer Zafar Durrani                          04/18/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Christophe Bosch/Person/World Bank     04/18/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                        04/18/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Philippe Dongier                            04/18/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
FSEARCH    C   E- LPEY-                                =   F AHOWMA5E I3



