Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3799 - AF 
GRANT NUMBER H054 - AF 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING 
AGREEMENT 
 
(National Emergency Employment Program For Rural Access Project) 
 
between 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 30, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3799 - AF 
GRANT NUMBER H054 -AF
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2003, between TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC 
STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AACA” means the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority, an 
authority established pursuant to a Decree of the Borrower dated March 30, 2002, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a village or neighborhood community or group 
which meets the criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual for the making 
Page  3
-
2
-
of Sub-Grants and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-Grant is made or proposed to be 
made; 
 
(c) 
“Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework” means the 
Borrower’s Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework, as amended, furnished to 
the Association in April 2003, which includes: (i) key policy principles for social and 
environmental management; (ii) tools to (A) guide the screening of Subprojects for 
significant social and environmental impacts, and (B) assist in the mitigation of such 
impacts; (iii) procedures to ensure that these principles and tools are appropriately 
applied; and (iv) guidelines and an action plan for capacity building and monitoring, as 
such Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between  the Borrower and the Association; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“JPMU” means the Joint Program Management Unit referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Mid-term Review” means the Mid-term Review referred to in paragraph 
9
of
Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“MIS” means Management Information System; 
 
(h) 
“MPW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works or any 
successor thereof; 
 
(i) 
“MRRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and 
Development or any successor thereof; 
 
(j) 
“NEEP” means the Borrower’s National Emergency Employment 
Program launched in 2002 by the Borrower to provide a timely, efficient, self-targeting 
and widespread cash-for-work based social safety net for the poor; 
 
(k) 
“NEEP Framework” means the framework for the carrying out of NEEP 
activities developed with various stakeholder ministries of the Borrower, as the same may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association; 
 
(l) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization registered and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower or those of another jurisdiction; 
 
(m) 
“NIB” means the National Inter-ministerial Board referred to in 
paragraph 3 (a) of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(n) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation 
Manual referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement which 
sets out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria  required for the 
Project, including the financial, administrative and operational arrangements relating to 
the carrying out of the Project, as such Project Implementation Manual may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association; 
 
(o) 
 “Province” means an administrative division within the Borrower’s 
territory; 
 
(p) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Sub-Grant” means a Sub-Grant made under the Project for the carrying 
out of one or more Subprojects; 
 
(r) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 5 
of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“Sub-Project” means a project or activity to be carried out under the 
Project which, having met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual and the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, shall be eligible for 
financing, on a grant basis, in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual; and 
 
(t) 
“TSUs” means the Technical Support Units referred to in paragraph 3 (c) 
of Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Financing 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fourteen million
 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000); and 
 
(b) 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,600,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
Page  5
-
4
-
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project, and amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be paid) under Sub-grants, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as 
the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2013 and ending June 15, 2043.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 2023 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MRRD and MPW with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for 
Page  8
-
7
-
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Financing Accounts was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare 
Page  9
-
8
-
and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association,
 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Kabul 
 
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
TRANSITIONAL ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /s/ Abdul Salam Rahimi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alastair McKechnie 
 
 
 
For Regional Vice President 
South Asia Region 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  Sub-Grants: 
 
 
 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(a) under Part A.1 
8,000,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(b) under Part A.2 
11,100,000 
 
 
 
 
of
the Project 
 
(c) under Part B 
 
150,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(2)  Goods: 
 
100% 
 
(a) under Part A.1 
 
300,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(b) under Part A.2 
  1,700,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(c) under Part B 
 
720,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
 
(3)  Consultants’  
 
 
 
100% 
 
services, training 
 
and audits: 
 
(a) under Part A.1 
      
 
1,600,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(b) under Part A.2 
1,600,000 
 
     
 
of
the 
Project 
 
   
 
(c) under Part B 
1,700,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
 
 
(4)  Incremental  
 
 
100% 
 
Operating Costs: 
 
(a) under Part A.1 
 100,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
(b) under Part A.2  
400,000 
    
 
of
the Project 
 
(c) under Part B 
 
1,030,000 
 
of
the 
Project 
 
    
 
_________ 
  ________ 
 TOTAL
 
14,800,000
13,600,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means
 
the incremental expensed incurred on account of Project implementation and 
management, including the installation, operation and maintenance of vehicles, 
computers and office equipment, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, Special Account banking charges, utility charges, domestic travel 
and per diem allowances, but excluding salaries of the officials of the Borrower’s civil 
service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals may be made, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 2,840,000 in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of 
payments made for
 
expenditures before that date but after April 20, 2003. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) all 
contracts for Sub-Grants under Parts A.1 and B of the Project
;
(b) Sub-Grants for civil 
works under Part A.2 of the Project costing less than $500,000 equivalent; (c) goods 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) consultants services 
provided by firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
(e) consultants services provided by individuals under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each;
 
and (f) all training, audits and Incremental Operating Costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The 
objective of the Project, which forms part of the Borrower’s National 
Emergency Employment Program (NEEP), is to assist the Borrower in providing targeted 
social protection, and in the improvement of key rural access infrastructure, for the 
improvement of livelihoods of the rural poor in the Borrower’s territory through the 
provision of: (i) emergency short-term employment opportunities for the poor on labor-
based rural access infrastructure improvement Subprojects; and (ii) technical assistance 
for the implementation of NEEP. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Labor-based Rural Access Infrastructure
1. 
The carrying out by MRRD, utilizing the services of an implementation 
consultant, of Sub-projects for the maintenance and rehabilitation of tertiary rural access 
infrastructure, including: (i) the provision of consultants’ service and training; (ii) the 
acquisition of equipment and goods; and (iii) the making of grants for the Subprojects. 
 
2. 
The carrying out by MPW, utilizing the services of an implementation 
consultant, of Sub-projects for secondary rural access infrastructure in all Provinces of 
the Borrower’s territory, including: (i) the provision of consultants’ services and training 
and the acquisition of equipment and goods; (ii) the erection of removable bridge 
structures for the restoration of rural access in critical locations; and (iii) the making of 
grants for the Sub-projects. 
 
Part B
:
Technical Assistance for NEEP
1. 
The provision by MRRD, utilizing the services of an implementation consultant, 
of assistance to the Joint Program Management Unit (JPMU) and its provincial 
structures, namely the Technical Support Units (TSUs) for the strengthening of JPMU. 
 
2. 
The establishment and strengthening of the TSUs through: (i) the provision of 
technical advisory services; (ii) the making of grants for Sub-projects; (iii) the provision of 
training; (iv) the acquisition of equipment and goods; and (v) the carrying out of studies and 
surveys. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2006. 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
The following items may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, namely: (i) goods estimated to 
cost $200,000 equivalent or more per contract; (ii) goods which the Association agrees 
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof; 
and (iii) works involving the construction of cross drainage structures, such as bridges 
and culverts. Bidding documents may provide that bidders may send their bids by 
facsimile, in which case, bid security shall not be required. Furthermore, the entity 
responsible for the procurement of the above-mentioned goods or works shall be required 
to put in place arrangements satisfactory to the Association to ensure confidentiality of 
the bids received by facsimile. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract but 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the procedures set out in the 
Annex to this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Works included in Subprojects which have engineering or 
implementation complexity and estimated to cost more than $30,000 equivalent per 
Subproject, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the procedures set out in the Annex to 
this Schedule. 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
3. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Community Participation under Subprojects
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent, may be carried out directly by 
the community or be procured through either of the following methods and in accordance 
with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines: (i) direct contracting of all or part of the works to 
NGOs, community organizations, and qualified domestic contractors and/or suppliers; or 
(ii) obtaining quotations from qualified domestic contractors with respect to all or part of 
the works.  
 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) the first three Subprojects under Part A.1 of the 
Project with minor engineering requirements; (ii) the first two Subprojects under Part A.1 
of the Project with engineering and implementation complexity; (iii) the first two 
Subprojects under Part A.2 of the Project for secondary rural access infrastructure; and 
(iv) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more. 
 
Page  17
-
16 -
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Parts B.3 and B.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, through direct contracting or from a UN Agency, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for the inventory and mapping of secondary and tertiary roads and 
services for irrigation inventory costing $200,000 equivalent or more per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Expert financial services required under the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and the services of a 
United Nations Agency for Implementation Consultancy may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  19
-
18 -
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for: (i) the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the procurement of services 
under single source selection procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  20
-
19 -
 
ANNEX 
to 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding  
 
A. Advertising
1. 
The invitation for bids shall be advertised in a newspaper of local circulation in the 
areas where the civil works are to be provided, and the goods are to be supplied.  In those 
areas where this is not possible, the invitation for bids shall be posted at such place or 
places as shall be appropriate. 
 
2. 
The invitation for bids shall be in local language and in such other language as 
may be deemed appropriate by the Borrower’s department or agency concerned, and shall 
include the information referred to in the model invitation for bids set forth in the 
Association’s sample bidding documents for procurement of small works (in the case of 
civil works contracts) and for procurement of goods (in the case of goods), published by 
the Association on January 1995 and January 2001, respectively. 
 
3. 
With due regard to the nature of the civil works to be provided and the goods to 
be supplied, the time period for bid submission from the date of invitation shall be 
sufficient to allow potential bidders a reasonable time to prepare and submit their bids.  It 
shall be no less than thirty (30) calendar days, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association. 
 
B. Eligibility
1. 
The eligibility of bidders and the origin of goods supplied shall be as defined 
under the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published 
by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). 
 
2. 
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, if they wish to do so. 
 
3. 
Joint ventures between foreign and local firms shall not be a condition for 
eligibility. Foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid alone.  Nevertheless, foreign bidders 
may be required to have a local agent/intermediary in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
C. Bidding
1. 
In addition to the invitation for bids, the bidding documents shall include the 
following: 
 
Page  21
-
20 -
 
(a) 
instructions to bidders, including the criteria to be used for bid 
evaluations; 
 
(b) 
conditions of contract; 
 
(c) technical 
specifications; 
 
(d) 
bid form and price schedules; and 
 
(e) 
performance security (optional for bids below a dollar equivalent sum to 
be agreed with the Association). 
 
2. 
In case of civil works, the bidding documents shall also include a bill of 
quantities or a breakdown of the lump sum price, as the case may be. 
 
3. 
Bids may be expressed in local currency or in such other foreign currency as may 
be set forth in the invitation for bids.  If the currency of payment set forth in the invitation 
for bids is the local currency, the invitations may indicate that there is no obligation on 
the part of the Borrower’s department or agency requesting the bids to convert into 
foreign currency the amounts to be paid. 
 
4. 
Bidding documents shall be prepared in the local language or in such other 
language as may be deemed appropriate by the Borrower’s department or agency 
concerned. 
 
5. 
Bids may be delivered by mail or by hand at the place set forth for such purposes 
in the invitation for bids. 
 
6. 
Bids shall be opened publicly to allow representatives of the bidders to attend if 
they so desire.  Bids shall not be modified after the opening of bids except to correct 
arithmetical errors.  All bids shall be opened at the same time. 
 
7. 
Bids may not be rejected for the sole purpose of obtaining lower bids.  The 
Borrower shall consult with the Association prior to rejecting all bids or soliciting new 
bids.  All bids may not be rejected and new bids invited on the same specifications solely 
for the purposes of obtaining lower prices, except in cases where the lowest evaluated bid 
exceeds the cost estimates by a substantial amount.  In such cases, the Borrower may, as 
an alternative to rebidding and with the prior concurrence of the Association, negotiate 
with the lowest evaluated bidder to try to obtain a satisfactory contract, and, failing a 
satisfactory response, with the next lowest evaluated bidder.  Rejection of all bids may be 
permissible when bids are not substantially responsive or in case of a lack of effective 
competition. 
 
Page  22
-
21 -
 
8. 
In the comparison of bids between local and foreign bidders, no domestic or 
regional preference to local bidders shall apply. Bids shall be compared on the basis of 
delivered price, inclusive of any prevailing duties. 
 
9. 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.  Price 
negotiation with bidders shall not be undertaken before the contract is awarded except as 
provided in paragraph 6 above. 
 
10. 
The award of contract shall be made within the period specified in the bidding 
documents. This period shall be determined in each case (goods or works) depending on 
the complexity of the contract and the approval. 
 
11. 
A
bid evaluation report shall be prepared by the Borrower’s department or 
agency requesting the bids setting out a record of all bids submitted, the reasons for 
disqualification of any bids, the criteria, weighing and evaluation of all responsive bids, 
the recommended award, and, if recommended award is to other than the lowest price 
bidder, the reasons therefore.  The concerned Borrower’s department or agency shall 
furnish to the Association a translation in the English language of such bid evaluation 
report in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 or Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Page  23
-
22 -
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. General
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementation Manual, the 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework and the NEEP Framework each in a 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework and the 
NEEP Framework and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or waive any provision of either the Project Implementation Manual, the 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework and the NEEP Framework if, in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause AACA to assist MRRD and MPW in the 
carrying out of the procurement process under the Project.  
 
(d) 
MRRD shall be responsible for the tertiary rural access infrastructure 
included in the Project and MPW for the secondary rural access infrastructure included in 
the Project. MRRD and MPW shall each under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association engage competent implementation consultants to assist in the carrying out of 
various tasks relating to the preparation and implementation of Sub-Projects.  
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain each of the following Frameworks in a 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, namely, the Environmental and Social 
Safeguards Framework and the NEEP Framework; and (ii) implement the Environmental 
and Social Safeguards Framework in accordance with the objectives, policies, 
procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth in the Framework. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall refrain from taking any action which shall prevent or 
interfere with the implementation of the Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Framework. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall: (i) continue to conduct annual monitoring of the 
environmental impacts of Project implementation for at least the two years immediately 
following the Closing Date; and (ii) employ not later than the Closing Date qualified 
consultants to complete an independent impact evaluation report with respect to the 
implementation of the Environmental and Social
 
Safeguards Framework and the 
outcomes thereof, all in accordance with time schedules and format agreed with the 
Association. 
Page  24
-
23 -
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall ensure that at all times: (i) archaeological finds and 
other cultural property are appropriately handled and monitored; and (ii) potential 
impacts of Project activities on archaeological finds are appropriately mitigated in 
accordance with the guidelines and safeguard procedures set forth in the Social and 
Environmental Safeguards Framework. 
 
(e) 
The Borrower shall ensure that procedures, satisfactory to the 
Association, for mine risk management as detailed in the Social and Environmental 
Safeguards Framework are followed at all times in the course of Project implementation 
and that all risk assessment and clearance tasks relating to mines are implemented in 
coordination with the Mine Action Center for Afghanistan. 
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, no later than August 31, 2003 establish, and 
thereafter maintain, with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association 
the National Inter-ministerial Board (NIB) to be responsible for policy development, 
overall resource allocations and oversight of NEEP. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall maintain, with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association the Joint Program Management Unit (JPMU) to be 
responsible for the day to day management of NEEP. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, no later than January 31, 2004 establish at the 
Provincial level, and thereafter maintain, with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association Technical Support Units (TSUs) to coordinate and 
supervise the labor-based rural access infrastructure improvement Sub-Projects within the 
NEEP framework. 
 
B. Sub-Projects 
4. 
(a) 
To be eligible for a Sub-Grant, a Beneficiary must furnish a Sub-Project 
proposal to the Borrower that fully satisfies the criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual for Sub-Grant financing. 
 
(b) 
In the evaluation of each Sub-Project proposal, consideration shall be 
given to the Beneficiary’s capacity to carry out, manage and maintain the Sub-Project in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, environmental and 
managerial standards. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, through MRRD and MPW, make appropriate amounts of the 
proceeds of the Grant available, as a Sub-Grant, to a Beneficiary under a Sub-Grant 
Agreement to be entered into by the Beneficiary and: (i) MRRD, or its Implementation 
Consultant on behalf of MRRD, with respect to tertiary rural access infrastructure 
included in the Project; and (ii) MPW, or its Implementation Consultant on behalf of 
MPW, with respect to secondary rural access infrastructure included in the Project. The 
Page  25
-
24 -
 
Sub-Grant Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Association and the Borrower including to the extent that it shall be appropriate the 
right to: 
 
(i) 
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, technical and managerial standards; 
and maintain adequate records for the Sub- Project concerned; 
 
(ii) 
require that all goods and services required for the Sub-Project 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
3
to this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
require that such goods and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-Project;  
 
(iv) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association if the Association shall so request, any goods, 
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; and 
 
(v) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the Sub-Grant Agreement. 
 
C. 
Reports and Reviews
6. 
The Borrower shall maintain within JPMU policies and procedures, including a 
management information system (MIS) for the Project, adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association on a quarterly basis, commencing 
December 31, 2003 a report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall no later than April 30, 2003, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report (the Mid-term Review Preparatory Report) to constitute the basis 
upon which the Midterm Review shall take place. The Mid-term Review Preparatory 
Report shall: (i) integrate and set out the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph 6 of Part C of this Schedule; (ii) consolidate 
the results of the reports referred to in paragraph 7 of Part C of this Schedule on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
Page  26
-
25 -
 
of said report; and (iii) set out the measures recommended for the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following the 
date of the Mid-term Review Preparatory Report. 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out a review (the Mid-term Review) of the Project 
with the Association by May 31, 2005, or such later date as the Association shall request 
of the conclusions and recommendations set out in the Mid-term Review Preparatory 
Report; (ii) after a review of the contents of said Report prepare a Mid-term Review 
Report setting out the conclusions and recommendations of the Mid-term Review; and 
(iii) thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof on the basis of the said conclusions and 
recommendations and the Association’s views thereon. 
Page  27
-
26 -
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
Page  28
-
27 -
 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account or the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
Page  29
-
28 -
 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  30
-
29 -
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following said 
indicators being subject to modification from time to time by agreement of the Borrower 
and the Association: 
 
Outputs
:
1. 
A minimum of 2,000 km of roads rehabilitated. 
 
2. 
A minimum of 2,300 m of bridges rehabilitated. 
 
3. 
A minimum of 6 million unskilled labor days of employment generated. 
Page  31
-
30 -
 
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Modifications of General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions generally 
applicable to development financing granted by the Association as a development credit 
and development grant to its members.  They apply to any development financing 
agreement providing for any such development finance to the extent and subject to any 
modifications set forth in such agreement. 
 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
‘8. 
“Development Financing Agreement” means the particular Development 
Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement may 
be amended from time to time. Development Financing Agreement includes these 
General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Development Financing Agreement. 
 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
 
‘15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the Development 
Financing Agreement; 
 
16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on its books in 
the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is credited; 
 
17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant; and 
 
18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account).’ 
 
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and 
Article IX. 
 
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”: Section 2.01(6), 
4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
Page  32
-
31 -
 
6
.
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. 
Financing Accounts.  
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to 
the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower as 
provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.  
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn 
from the Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
 
8. 
The phrase in parentheses “(including any development financing agreement or 
development grant agreement)” is added to: (i) Section 6.02(a)(ii) after the words “any 
development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association”; (ii) Section 6.02(c)(i) after the words “any development credit agreement” 
and before the words “with the Association”; and (iii) Section 7.01(b)(i) after the words 
“any other development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower 
and the Association”. 
 
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation”.
 
