                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                         Report No: ICR0000625


              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-37990 and IDA-H0540)

                                               ON A

                                             CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR14.8 MILLION
                               US$20.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                          AND A GRANT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR13.6 MILLION
                              (US$18.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                (Formerly known as Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan)

                                              FOR A

      NATIONAL EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM FOR RURAL ACCESS

                                            (NEEPRA)

                                           June 20, 2008

Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                          (As of May 30, 2008)

                                        Currency Unit = Afghani
                                        SDR1.00 = US$1.64664
                                          US$1.00 = AFN49.97

                                          IRA FISCAL YEAR
                                          March 21 ­ March 20

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank                     NEEP      National Emergency Employment Program

ARTF     Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund      NEEPRA    National Emergency Employment Program for Rural
                                                              Access
CDF      Comprehensive Development Framework        NGO       Nongovernmental Organization

DDR/RLS  Disarmament Demobilization and
         Reintegration, Rural Livelihood Support    PDCU      Program Development & Coordination Unit

DFID     Department for International Development   PIU       Project Implementation Unit
FM       Financial Management                       PRR       Priority Reform and Restructuring
FMR      Financial Management Report                SCF       Standard Conversion Factor
GoA      Government of Afghanistan                  SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
IA       Implementing Agency                        TA        Technical Assistance
IC       Implementation Consultant                  TISA      Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan
IDA      International Development Association      TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
IFC      International Finance Corporation           UN       United Nations
ILO      International Labor Organization           UNDP      United Nations Development Program
IMF      International Monetary Fund                UNHCR United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
IOM      International Organization for Migration   UNICEF United Nations International Children's Education Fund
IP       Implementation Partner                     UNOPS     United Nations Office for Project Services
IRAP     Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning    VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost
JPMU     Joint Program Management Unit              VOT       Value of Time Saving
LIPW     Labor Intensive Public Works               WB        World Bank
LSP      Livelihood and Social Protection Program
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MPW      Ministry of Public Works

MRRD     Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation &
         Development
MWA      Ministry of Women Affairs
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NDF      National Development Framework



           Vice President : Praful Patel
         Country Director : Adolfo Brizzi (Acting)
          Sector Manager : George Tharakan (Acting)
      Project Team Leader : Susanne Holste
        ICR Team Leader : Susanne Holste

                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

  NATIONAL EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM FOR RURAL ACCESS

            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                                        Table of Contents

                                                                                                                                                     Page

                                                               Data Sheet
A. Basic Information ...............................................................................................................................i
B. Key Dates............................................................................................................................................i
C. Ratings Summary................................................................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ...................................................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...........................................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis..............................................................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ...........................................................................................iv
H. Restructuring .....................................................................................................................................v
I. Disbursement Graph...........................................................................................................................v

                                                         Main Document

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.........................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes....................................................................................................11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...................................................................16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...............................................................17
6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing....................................................................................21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ...........................................................................................22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis...........................................................................24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.....................................................................................28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.............................................................29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...............................30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................................33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................34

MAP
IBRD 35657

A. Basic Information

                                                                       National Emergency
Country:                 Afghanistan              Project Name:        Employment Program for
                                                                       Rural Access
Project ID:              P082472                  L/C/TF Number(s):    IDA-37990, IDA-H0540
ICR Date:                06/26/2008               ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                                       TRANSITIONAL
Lending Instrument:      ERL                      Borrower:            ISLAMIC STATE OF
                                                                       AFGHANSTAN
Original Total
                         XDR 28.4M                Disbursed Amount:    XDR 28.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Public Works
Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation & Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

      Process               Date              Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         04/10/2003      Effectiveness:         07/22/2003          07/22/2003
Appraisal:              04/21/2003      Restructuring(s):                          02/28/2007
Approval:               06/24/2003      Mid-term Review:       05/31/2005          03/31/2005
                                        Closing:               09/30/2006          09/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                    Ratings                 Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory             Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:  Moderately Satisfactory  Implementing
                                                  Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory             Performance:           Satisfactory




                                                 i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                 QAG Assessments (if
       Performance                Indicators                 any)                    Rating

Potential Problem Project at                        Quality at Entry
                            No                                              None
any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
Problem Project at any time                         Quality of Supervision
                            No                                              Moderately Satisfactory
(Yes/No):                                           (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                                                     5
Other social services                                                 50                   25
Roads and highways                                                    50                   70


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                Secondary           Secondary
Other social protection and risk management                          Primary             Primary
Rural non-farm income generation                                    Secondary           Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                    Primary             Primary


E. Bank Staff
          Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Praful C. Patel                       Mieko Nishimizu
                            Adolfo Brizzi (Acting)Alastair J.
Country Director:                                                 Alastair J. McKechnie
                            McKechnie
Sector Manager:             G. George Tharakan (Acting)           Guang Z.he Chen
Project Team Leader:        Susanne Holste                        Amer Zafar Durrani
ICR Team Leader:            Susanne Holste
ICR Primary Author:         Tawia Addo-Ashong, Anna Cestari
                            Anna Cestari




                                                   ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project aims to assist the Government in providing targeted social protection, and in the improvement
of key rural access infrastructure, for improving livelihoods of the rural poor in Afghanistan through: (i)
the provision of emergency short-term employment opportunities for the poor on labor-based rural access
infrastructure improvement subprojects; and, (ii) technical assistance for the implementation of NEEP.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The revised project development objective is to enable the rural population to benefit from year-round
access to basic services and facilities in rural areas of Afghanistan covered by the project. This will be
achieved through contracting with the private sector to carry out road rehabilitation which will improve
access of rural communities to basic services and facilities and increased rural employment.         The
achievement of the PDO will contribute to enhanced well-being and promote equitable economic growth
in the country.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

       Indicator           Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                      approval            Revised       Completion or
                                                    documents)         Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :         Roads rehabilitated, km
Value
quantitative or                                 2,000 km              1,400 km       1,517 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   06/27/2003            02/16/2007     09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %              108% Target achieved and exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 2 :         Cross-drainage structures, incl. bridges rehabilitated, meters.
Value
quantitative or                                 2,300 m               3,000 m        7,033 m
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   06/27/2003            02/16/2007     09/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %              234% Target achieved and exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 3 :         Un-skilled labor days of employment generated. million days
Value
quantitative or                                 6 million             2.2 million    2,7 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   06/27/2003            02/16/2007     09/27/2007
Comments
(incl. %              123%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :         8 provincial airstrips and airfields rehabilitated


                                                     iii

                                          Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

       Indicator       Baseline Value       Values (from                      Achieved at
                                             approval          Revised      Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Value
quantitative or                          N/A                8             8
Qualitative)
Date achieved                            06/27/2003         02/16/2007    09/27/2007
Comments
(incl. %            100%
achievement)
Indicator 5 :       A New MRRD Office constructed
Value
quantitative or                          N/A                1             1
Qualitative)
Date achieved                            06/27/2003         02/16/2007    09/27/2007
Comments
(incl. %            100%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                             approval       Revised Target   Completion or
                                            documents)          Values       Target Years


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


 No.      Date ISR                                                      Actual Disbursements
          Archived              DO                        IP               (USD millions)
   1      09/16/2003         Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.00
   2      01/13/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              19.52
   3      08/03/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              19.52
   4      05/05/2005         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              28.88
   5      12/12/2005         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              39.08
   6      06/12/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              39.08
   7      12/20/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              39.08
   8      06/14/2007         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              39.08
   9      09/13/2007         Satisfactory             Satisfactory              41.61




                                             iv

H. Restructuring (if any)

                                ISR Ratings at       Amount
 Restructuring       Board
                                Restructuring     Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
     Date(s)      Approved PDO
                     Change                       Restructuring             Changes Made
                                  DO      IP     in USD millions
                                                                  The project was refocused in 2004,
                                                                  when the Government and the
                                                                  World Bank conducted a joint
                                                                  review of the NEEP to determine

    02/28/2007          Y         S        S            39.08     how the program should go
                                                                  forward. The outcomes of the
                                                                  review emphasized the need to
                                                                  shift from employment creation to
                                                                  provision of durable rural access
                                                                  infrastructure.

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body)
enter ratings below:
                                                                 Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                         Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                                 Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                            Satisfactory



I. Disbursement Profile




                                                v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Ravaged by nearly three decades of conflict and political instability, Afghanistan was and remains one of
the poorest and longest suffering countries among the member states of the World Bank. A large majority
of the population lacks access to basic services, especially in the rural areas. An estimated 4 to 7 million
remain vulnerable to hunger, with a large number dependent on food and humanitarian aid.

The aftermath of September 11, 2001 precipitated change in the political and military situation in
Afghanistan. An interim administration was established in December 2001, leading to an Emergency
Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) which paved the way for a new constitution, an elected President (2004)
and parliament (2005) for a more representative government within four years.

When the World Bank re-engaged in Afghanistan in late 2001 the destruction from the war was further
compounded by a severe drought which lasted until 2004. The war and the resulting neglect had left the
few existing public assets largely dilapidated. Both the conflict and the drought had resulted in massive
population displacements and disruption of livelihoods.

For the about 80 percent of Afghanistan's population living in rural areas, incomes were at subsistence
level. Poor and deteriorated infrastructure further increased costs to rural population and retarded the
recovery of the rural economy. For many years, public infrastructure had not been maintained, irrigation
canals had accumulated sedimentation and, in many places, structures were in need of repair, leading to
reduced water supply and consequently agricultural productivity. Unpaved roads were in poor condition,
providing limited access and causing very low speeds: even short trips often required an overnight stay.
Hence despite long distances, non-motorized transport competed with motorized transport in many parts
of rural Afghanistan. More than 25 years of war not only devastated existing infrastructure, it prevented
maintenance and new investment from taking place. This left the road network only partially usable at
very high transportation costs. Requirements were for all levels of interventions from maintenance to
reconstruction.

Despite recent improvements in agriculture, employment opportunities in the rural areas remain limited.
Recent border-crossing restrictions to Iran and Pakistan have further reduced prospects for Afghan
migrant labor. Return of refugees and internally displaced populations to their places of origin further
distressed local labor conditions.

The Transitional Government of Afghanistan had articulated a clear strategy for the country's
reconstruction through its National Development Framework (NDF). Livelihoods and Social Protection
was a top priority and the first pillar of the framework. The National Emergency Employment Program
(NEEP), later expanded to a larger multi-donor program now known as National Rural Access Program
(NRAP), was the main investment program for social protection of vulnerable groups aimed at providing
timely, efficient, self-targeting and wide spread cash-for-work based social safety nets. NEEP activities
involved a wide range of sectors, (roads, irrigation, urban development, natural resource management,
soil conservation, reforestation) and included capacity building activities to ensure effective planning,
delivery, monitoring and evaluation. Government requested the World Banks assistance to co-finance this
program.




                                                     1

The Bank's early response to Afghanistan's reconstruction needs consisted of its participation in a Needs
Assessment carried out jointly with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), which led to the preparation of a program of financial assistance and
targeted advisory services to support the capacity building of the administration. The framework for the
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) prepared and presented to the Board in 2003, was the Government's
NDF. The TSS set out priorities for World Bank's involvement where it had the comparative advantage
and could work with other development partners, focusing in four main areas:

o       improving livelihoods;
o       fiscal strategy, institutions, management;
o       governance and public administration reform and;
o       enabling private sector development.

In line with government priorities, the TSS also included assistance to the government in the scaling up of
NEEP, which together with the Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project,
approved by the Bank a year earlier, included a Labor Intensive Public Works (LIPW) component. These
operations set the foundation for the design of the National Emergency Employment Program for Rural
Access (NEEPRA) and the transition from NEEP to the NRAP, one of the national priority programs.
With NRAP the focus shifted from emergency employment generation to long-term more sustainable
provision of improved access for rural Afghanistan.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project, which formed part of the Government of Afghanistan (GoA)'s National Emergency
Employment Program aimed to assist the Government in providing targeted social protection, and in the
improvement of key rural access infrastructure, for improving livelihoods of the rural poor in Afghanistan
through: (i) the provision of emergency short-term employment opportunities for the poor on labor-based
rural access infrastructure improvement subprojects; and, (ii) technical assistance for the implementation
of NEEP. A secondary objective of the project was to repair key rural access infrastructure and assist the
Government in mobilizing donor support for NEEP. The project was to achieve this objective through
labor-based rural access infrastructure subprojects, and technical assistance to NEEP.

The original PDOs were to be monitored by the following key performance indicators:

        A minimum of 2,000 km of roads to be rehabilitated.
        A minimum of 2,300 m of bridges to be rehabilitated.
        A minimum of 6 million unskilled labor days of employment generated.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The project was refocused in 2004, when the Government and the World Bank conducted a joint mid-
term review of NEEP to determine how the program should move forward. Although the project was not
formally restructured until 2007, the outcomes of the review emphasized the need to shift from social
protection to improving access through rural infrastructure provision. This was to be achieved through
contracting with the private sector to carry out road rehabilitation leading to improved access to basic
services and facilities and increased rural employment. The PDO was revised to read: "to enable the
rural population to benefit from year-round access to basic services and facilities in rural areas of
Afghanistan covered by the project." The project was however only formally restructured in February
2007, following recommendations from the Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7) of the project.



                                                      2

The Task Team agreed with the findings of the QSA7 that the project should have been formally
restructured earlier, when it became apparent that the focus had changed, for the project to bring more
effective and sustainable assistance to its ultimate beneficiaries: the rural poor.

The new outcome indicators of the project were: (i) improved access of rural communities to basic
services and facilities; and (ii) increased rural employment.

Key performance indicators were amended to read:

        A minimum of 1,400 km of roads rehabilitated.
        A minimum of 3,000 m of cross-drainage structures, including bridges, rehabilitated.
        A minimum of 2.2 million unskilled labor days of employment generated.
        Eight (8) provincial airstrips and airfield rehabilitated.
        A new Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD) office building
        constructed.

The new set of targets reflected the change in technical specifications that followed the refocusing of the
project and reflects inclusion of priority infrastructure investments.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured
in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

As described in the Technical Annex, the main beneficiaries of the project were to be:

        The rural poor of Afghanistan, who would benefit from receiving access to basic services and
        increasing rural employment; and
        The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development
        (MRRD) which were to benefit from technical assistance, capacity building, and experience of
        project implementation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The US$39.2 million project consisted of two main components as outlined in the Technical Annex::

Component A: Labor based Rural Access Infrastructure (US$34.2 million)

This component financed sub-projects for labor-based maintenance and rehabilitation of rural access
infrastructure ­ primarily, secondary and tertiary roads, bridges and other cross drainage infrastructure
associated with these roads. The sub-projects were to be implemented in all provinces.

(i)     Sub-component A(1) Subproject Grants for tertiary rural access infrastructure (US$13.8m): This
        sub-component financed subproject grants for maintenance and rehabilitation of tertiary access
        infrastructure. It also financed consulting services, training and audit, equipment and goods, and
        incremental operating costs. This subcomponent was implemented by MRRD.




                                                       3

(ii)    Sub-component A(2) Subproject Grants for secondary rural access infrastructure (US$20.4m):
        This subcomponent financed subproject grants for secondary rural access infrastructure. It also
        financed consulting services, training and audit, equipment and goods, and incremental operating
        costs. As part of the goods, the component financed the provision and installation of temporary
        mobile bridges to be used for restoration of rural access at critical locations where the expected
        construction costs and duration for permanent bridges was beyond the project scope. This
        component was implemented by MPW.

Component B: Technical Assistance (TA) for NEEP (US$5.0 million)

The TA component financed technical assistance services, studies, surveys, training and audit,
incremental operating costs, goods and works, to establish and strengthen NEEP's Joint Program
Management Unit (JPMU) and its provincial sub-units. Specifically, this component financed a program
coordinator, assisted by a team of national and international specialists covering areas of: (i) Social
Protection and Gender; (ii) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation; (iii) Road/Transport Engineering and
Contract Management; (iv) Irrigation and Environmental Engineering; (v) Management Information
Systems; and (vi) Training. The Project TA was to assist in the establishment of provincial support
structures for implementation of NEEP, assist the JPMU in the identification, design and implementation
of the studies and surveys required to develop the NEEP strategy and its operational procedures and
guidelines.

1.6 Revised Components

Following the formal restructuring of the project, the legal agreement was amended in April 2007 to
include two new sub-components in component A:

(i)     Sub-Component A.3: The carrying out by MRRD, utilizing the services of an implementation
        consultant, of the construction of a new office building for MRRD (US$1.49m). This was a partial
        contribution to the cost, the remaining funding coming from other sources.

(ii)    Sub-Component A.4: The carrying out by MPW, utilizing the services of an implementation
        consultant, of the rehabilitation works of approximately eight (8) airstrips and airfields,
        providing access to remote rural areas, unconnected to the rural network (US$1.1M)

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The Credit closing date was extended once from September 2006 to September 2007 in order to allow for
the completion of civil works contracts and the defects liability periods under supervision of the
Implementing Partner (IP) who managed the contracts on behalf of the Government.

There were four amendments to the Financing Agreement:

(i)     The first amendment approving the reallocation of funds to allow for increased supervision to
        accelerate project implementation. September 26, 2003.

(ii)    The second amendment extended the closing date of the project and increased resources to
        MRRD for the provision of technical and implementation support. October 27, 2004.

(iii)   The third amendment introduced the use of NCB procedures for procurement of civil works for
        the cross drainage structures. March 29, 2005.


                                                     4

(iv)     The fourth and final amendment followed the formal restructuring of the project and allowed for
         the retroactive financing of the MRRD office building and the eight airstrips/airfields, the
         rewording of the PDOs and the adjustment and inclusion of new performance indicators and the
         revision of the targets. April 23, 2007.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project design was based on the Government's existing NEEP strategy and drew lessons from the
successful implementation of IDA's LIPW and ARTF1 NEEP-1. This enabled the project team to respond
quickly to the prevailing issues in Afghanistan. The team was well aware of the difficult context and
adopted a realistic and pragmatic approach to respond to the priorities set by the Government, ensuring
the maximum provincial coverage possible. Given the country environment, there was no baseline data
available and little analytical work could be undertaken. However, the team clearly identified the lessons
learned from earlier projects and reflected these in project design.

The project's objectives, approach, components and institutional arrangements responded to the urgency
to meet the needs of the Afghan people at that time ­ ensuring that reconstruction and rehabilitation
assistance could quickly restore assets, improve livelihoods and provide hope for the Afghan people after
more than 23 years of conflict.

The project was kept simple with two main components - civil works and technical assistance, which was
appropriate for the conditions under which it was to be implemented. Implementation arrangements
addressed the weak capacity of the implementing Ministries (MRRD and MPW) by the provision of a
Implementing Partner (IP) to oversee implementation of civil works and to build capacity of the
ministries.

Identified risks such as inefficient use of funds, the dispersed nature of activities and the security situation
leading to limited government control over certain areas, were appropriate and the assessment and
possible mitigation measures were clearly outlined and incorporated appropriately into project design.




1 The Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) was established in May 2002 to serve as a coordinated
financing mechanism for the government's recurrent budget (recurrent cost financing) and priority reconstruction
programs and projects identified by government (investment financing). Since commencing operations, the ARTF
has mobilized US$2.9 billion in grant contributions from donors. It is the primary donor instrument for financing the
civilian operating budget. Increasingly, it has become the key source of predictable financing for the government's
development budget.


                                                         5

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

The following are the main factors affecting implementation during the project life:

1.      Security Environment. Increasing insecurity severely hampered implementation of subprojects
        particularly in the Southern and Eastern provinces. The project continued to operate in less
        secure areas because of the potentially large and visible gains from road rehabilitation works and
        resultant employment opportunities for the rural population.             The project adjusted its
        implementation mechanism depending on the security situation and used more community-based
        contracting where contractors were not able to work. All reasonable measures and precautions
        were taken to balance effective project implementation and supervision with the need to ensure
        the safety of staff.

2.      Role of the Implementing Partner (IP). The implementation of the project was contracted to an
        Implementing Partner (IP), UNOPS, which supported the two line ministries, MPW and MRRD.
        The use of the IP was essential due to the weak capacity of the ministries. Without the IP it is
        unlikely that the project could have been delivered. The International Labor Organization (ILO)
        also provided focused TA for cash-for-work operations. Implementation was satisfactory
        throughout the project life however the procurement and financial management of the project
        were often rated less than satisfactory. The IP had difficulties finding competent staff to manage
        the fiduciary aspects and this led to errors in procurement and late delivery of audit reports. The
        MTR report noted that their major weakness was their ability to monitor, evaluate and report on
        the program implementation in a timely manner. These issues were identified and addressed
        during project supervision and subsequent missions noted a progressive improvement in quality
        and timeliness of reporting. Despite constraints of security and high staff turnover, the IP
        managed to deliver nationally.

3.      Weak Contracting Capacity Environment. At the start of the project virtually no local
        contracting capacity existed and extensive training was required. There was no history or tracking
        system for previous work contracts undertaken by the contractors and local firms often had a
        double identity as NGOs. There was an absence of banking systems and the utilization of
        informal means to transfer funds for payments was necessary. Also absent was an insurance
        system from which bid bonds and performance bonds could be obtained.

4.      Mid Term Review (MTR). A review of NEEP was undertaken at the end of 2004. At that time,
        there were four World Bank's projects under NEEP at various stages of implementation
        (NEEPRA, LIPW, NEEP 1, and NEEP DDR/RLS2) and it was deemed logical to review the
        NEEP program in its entirety rather than focusing on a single project. Thus, there was no
        formal/specific MTR of NEEPRA and recommendations were given on the general NEEP
        implementation. NEEP review focused on three aspects: quality of engineering works, social
        protection and institutional impacts, and its outcomes were endorsed by the Bank, and formed the
        basis of the recommendations made for NEEPRA in the overarching review and the follow-up for
        the subsequent supervision missions.




2Disarmament Demobilization and Reintegration, and Rural Livelihood Support" (Later unofficially renamed as
NEEP RAL "Reintegration and Alternate Livelihood's


                                                      6

       The NEEP/NEEPRA review was government led, strengthening ownership and providing the
       impetus for government to implement recommendations. Particularly, in terms of institutional
       impact, the review suggested the establishment of the Program Implementation Units (PIUs) in
       the two line ministries, which created greater local ownership and involvement, while enabling a
       slow phasing put of the international presence in the project.

       The review suggested that for greater effectiveness, the Government should focus NEEP on the
       delivery of rural infrastructure aiming to promote rural growth and reduce rural poverty primarily
       through the provision of local access infrastructure, rather than focusing on short-term emergency
       employment. It stated that the central objective of NEEP needed to be simplified to focus on rural
       roads, with nationally recognizable outputs that were owned by all tiers of the government. It
       noted that targeting of the poor and vulnerable under NEEP had not been highly successful, and
       that there was a need to revisit NEEP's role as a social safety net as well as the expectations from
       the direct income transfers. The Government took immediate steps to implement the
       recommendations from the review. The NEEP program was re-oriented to de-emphasize the
       safety net objective and focus more on rural access development. The program's name changed
       from National Emergency Employment Program to National Rural Access Program (NRAP).

5.     Quality at Supervision Assessment. QAG rated the supervision of the project as moderately
       satisfactory. The panel praised the supervision team for its commitment and responsiveness
       given the difficult country context in which they worked. The team was also commended for its
       solid relationships with its partners and stakeholders as well as the work done in monitoring the
       social and environmental safeguard aspects of the project, although there was not yet a formal
       framework in place. The framework was established only toward the end of the project, when
       capacity and understanding of environmental and social issues had improved, especially due to
       several World Bank's missions and workshops.

       The panel also acknowledged that the team had made satisfactory efforts to improve capacity,
       ensure accountability and to mobilize additional donor resources.

       The QAG panel felt, however, that there was a lost opportunity in the fact that the team had not
       formally restructured the project based on the realignment of the project scope, to respond to
       changing needs and the results of the mid-term review in a timely fashion.

6.     Government commitment was consistent and well engaged at preparation as well as throughout
       the project: The government assigned staff and gradually employed more civil servants and
       consultants to work on the project rather than relying fully on staff directly contracted by the IP.
       Rural Access was, and is even more now, identified as one of the priorities of the Afghan
       Government, and the administration has been working with the donor community to establish
       functional programs and develop a comprehensive rural access policy. The progress on the latter
       has been slower than hoped due to the country context. The NRAP has been identified in the
       May 2008 Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS), as one of the 15 key programs
       for the implementation of the Comprehensive Agriculture and Rural Development (CARD)
       Sector Strategy, which is to be implemented between 2008 and 2013.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E framework consisted only of output indicators and not outcome indicators. The indicators
were however appropriate to the conditions under which the project was to be implemented. Initially, the
IP struggled to monitor and report on program implementation on a timely basis. The provision of
monthly and quarterly reports improved over the project period to provide a satisfactory basis with


                                                    7

regards to the quality of data and identification of issues to be addressed. A consolidated MIS system
materialized only late in the project. This prevented the Government and donors from making timely
interventions where they were required. As mentioned, a review of NEEP was undertaken mid way
through the project but focused mainly on the institutional challenges, outlining recommendations for a
more efficient and effective management of NEEP.

Given the non-existence of data in general in Afghanistan, the team could not have provided a more
meaningful framework during appraisal.

Towards the end of the project, the team decided to attempt a retrospective quantitative analysis of the
impacts of NEEPRA on the rural beneficiaries using data available from country systems.

In order to estimate the impact of NEEPRA on outcomes of interest, an attempt was made to construct an
artificial control group for NEEPRA roads by using propensity score matching techniques3 and GIS shape
files of 114 rural roads and cross-drainage structures rehabilitated under NEEPRA, GIS shape files of all
rural road segments in Afghanistan, nationwide data from the Central Statistics Office (CSO), and data
from the 2005 National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (NRVA). Propensity score matching
techniques were then used to `match' each NEEPRA road to a road in the population of controls which
had similar characteristics, using pre-treatment data from CSO, and calculate differences, between
outcomes of interest in villages along NEEPRA roads and those in villages in the matched control group
using data from the 2005 NRVA.

However, the collective characteristics of the data sources employed in the matching exercise meant that
the proposed methodology would be unable to provide reasonably accurate estimates of the impact of
NEEPRA. Concerns included: the lack of a centralized database with information concerning where and
when such activities have occurred; the fact that the 2005 NRVA was collected at a time when only a
portion of NEEPRA roads had been completed; uncertainty over the timing of collection of the CSO
dataset which provided the intended source of pre-treatment data; and the inability of the NRVA 2005 to
provide for a representative sample at the project level. Given these constraints, the authors of the analysis
concluded that estimates obtained using the aforementioned methodology would potentially be
misrepresentative of the actual impacts of NEEPRA on outcomes of interest, rendering it unwise to
proceed further with the analysis and publication of results.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Financial Management: Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception until
closure were maintained by the IP. Records of the project receipts were also maintained at Ministry of
Finance, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU). All underlying supporting documents for the expenditures
were maintained by the IP. The IP had good FM capacity to facilitate project disbursements. Record
keeping improved during the project and was found satisfactory since the MTR.




3Propensity Score Matching seeks to build an empirical model of how various observable factors, on which data is
supplied, impact the `propensity' of a unit being treated. Using data for the respective units, this empirical model is
then used to assign an aggregate `propensity score' to each observation in the sample. Units from the treatment
group are then `matched' to the unit from the population of potential controls which has the closest propensity score.
Estimates of program impact are then calculated using multivariate regression using the sample of treated units and
the artificial control group selected on propensity scores.


                                                           8

The funds flow arrangement was satisfactory. All payments to the IP were centrally controlled by MoF,
and the IP had adequate internal controls for project disbursements. An assessment of the process reveals
that this has been managed appropriately since the project began.

Financial reporting was poor initially: monthly and quarterly financial reports ­ including the mandatory
financial monitoring reports to be submitted quarterly to the Bank ­ were not prepared regularly and also
did not contain all required information. However financial reporting improved considerably over time.
Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly, although not within the time stipulated in
the Financing Agreement. The audit opinions of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan were
generally unqualified; except for opinions issued during the last two years. Key points raised in the last
audited financial statements and management letter for the fiscal year ending March 20, 2007 (SY1385)
for the IDA Credit 3799 and Grant H054 included (i) expense over budgeted amounts; (ii) difference
between financial statements and FMRs; (iii) absence of insurance cover; (iv) un-reconciled payments
against estimates; (v) un-reconciled debits and credits; (vi) audit reports of the IP not provided; and (vii)
payment of top up salaries to line ministry staff. Responses to key audit findings arising from Bank's
reviews of the audit reports have been received from the IP/MRRD and found to be satisfactory.

A financial management supervision mission took place in June 2008, because payments on the project's
activities by the IP continued until December 2007, thereafter, the IP requested for additional time to
reconcile the accounts with their HQ and put the documents and records required for the review in order.
In agreement with the IP and line ministries the final FM review was scheduled for June 2008. The key
issues from the review were:

(i)      Ineligible expenditure claims of US$2,118,510 - IDA Credit 3799 and Grant H054 closed on
         September 30, 2007 and had the same end disbursement date. It was noticed that for some sub-
         grants linked to the credit and the grant, there were expenditures paid after September 30, 2007.
         As such, these expenditures are ineligible. The task team is following up with the IP to receive
         full information on the nature of these expenditures by the end of July 2008. The expenditures
         could be retention money from contractors given the impossibility in Afghanistan to obtain bank
         guarantees. Once the nature of expenditures is clear the team will advise the client on how to
         handle these claims.

(ii)     Missing assets amounting to US$297,101- A physical inventory of all NEEPRA fixed assets at
         HQ and the regional offices was completed in March 2008. The IP has prepared a summary
         listing of all available and missing assets, and a second round of physical inventory is planned to
         locate the missing assets. The result will be communicated to the team by 15 of July 2008 and
         follow-up actions will be taken accordingly.

Once this follow-up is completed and the information received is conclusive, adequate reconciliation and
reimbursement actions will be taken appropriately.

Procurement: At appraisal IDA agreed to follow the IP procedures for the procurement of civil works.
However during ex-post review it was revealed that the IP followed procedures such as interviews of
contractors. The IP also did not have standardized procurement documents and procedures for goods,
works and services undertaken even under the prior review level. In some cases, the unfamiliarity of the
IP's staff with World Bank procurement procedures led to the award of contracts issued without the
Bank's no objection.




                                                       9

Corrective action was taken to follow IDA procedures. Unfortunately though, the IP did not have
competent procurement staff throughout the project life. Delays were observed during implementation. In
addition, due to bad designs there were quantity variations which resulted in cost escalations. The IP in
several instances charged non-project related activities to the project. This was found out during ex-post
reviews and later the IP was requested to reverse the charges, and complied with the request. The IP did
not maintain proper files in respect of hiring consultants. The project was, however, constantly supervised
for procurement from the Bank's country office, leading to prompt and timely corrective actions being
undertaken.

The overall procurement actions under project are rated as moderately satisfactory; nevertheless some
improvements have been registered as the implementation progressed.

Social and Environmental Safeguards

Social safeguard issues were not adequately addressed until the end of the project. The staff of the
implementing ministries and the IP was unaware of Bank procedures and no records were kept of
processes undertaken in connection with land acquisition, voluntary donations or community
compensation to affected persons.        No specific social safeguards monitoring or supervision was
undertaken. Although the PIUs and the IP feel that sufficient attention was given to all aspects of social
inclusion and adequate consultation was carried out, especially given the country environment, they agree
that the processes were not satisfactorily documented.

The environmental safeguard issues were not adequately addressed until the later stages of the project.
Supervision was consistent, responsive to client needs, adapting well to the circumstances on the ground.
To facilitate and institutionalize the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the
sub-projects, the Bank's specialist provided recommendations which were implemented. The presence of
a specialist in the Bank's country office, although late in project implementation, allowed for regular
interactive consultation and active support of the line ministries and local communities.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

NEEPRA served as a vehicle for the Government and the Bank to develop a new program in the provision
of rural infrastructure under the NRAP umbrella. A new project - the National Emergency Rural Access
Project (NERAP) at a value of US$112 million was prepared during the final implementation year of
NEEPRA and was approved by the Board on December 13, 2007. This project builds upon lessons
learned under NEEPRA and provides specifically for maintenance of rural roads rehabilitated during
previous years. Indicators by which the project will be monitored include:

·        The completion of a rural access strategy
·        The establishment of a maintenance scheme by MRRD
·        An improved and interactive M &E system, including an impact evaluation.




                                                     10

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's objectives, design and implementation are still relevant to the country priorities as well as
the Bank's current assistance strategy. The Interim Strategy Note of 2006 which guides the Bank's
engagement in Afghanistan has three priorities: (i) building the capacity and accountability of the state (ii)
improving rural livelihoods and promoting rural economy and (iii) supporting the growth of a formal,
modern and competitive private sector. NEEPRA's objectives of enabling the rural population to benefit
from year-round access to basic services and facilities in rural areas of Afghanistan, is fully aligned with
these objectives. The public works components contributed to pilot approaches to labor intensive
construction of infrastructure, allowing for some amount of employment generation in difficult
operational conditions. Activities were spread to all of the country's provinces. Award of contracts and
provision of training to the local construction industry valued at US$48 million across NEEP/NRAP
projects provided the basis for a local construction industry capable of managing and implementing
appropriately sized sub-projects. The Technical Assistance component supported a strategy that would
enable the urgent rehabilitation of the rural access road infrastructure through an implementing partner,
while simultaneously fostering the human capacity within the ministries of Rural Reconstruction and
Development, and Public Works, to enable them to eventually take over the management of the rural
access program in a sustainable manner.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

To enable the rural population to benefit from year-round access to basic services and facilities in rural
areas of Afghanistan covered by the project.                                                     Satisfactory

Despite the prevailing challenging security circumstances and the reconstruction context in which the
project operated, most of the activities planned at appraisal and the additional activities agreed upon when
the project was restructured were delivered at project closure.

For the objective of increasing access, the project met and exceeded its revised targets. Over 1,500 km of
roads were rehabilitated, 7,000 m of cross-drainage structures were constructed, eight provincial airstrips
were rehabilitated and the MRRD office building was completed. With regards to increased rural
employment, over 2 million unskilled labor days were generated by the project. At MTR it was found that
the cost of delivery of the project to government was estimated at US$4-5/labor day of employment,
comparing favorably with similar programs in other post-conflict countries, and lower than cost estimates
at the beginning of the program. Several capacity building activities for MRRD and MPW were
undertaken ranging from MIS to road construction engineering training.

336 subprojects in total, in all 34 provinces were completed under NEEPRA, this work resulted in the
generation of 2,711,216 labor days, at an average pay of US$4/day. The projects have thus provided
income transfers of approximately US$10 million of which US$5 million to the neediest rural poor.

The project fostered capacity building by:

·       Providing opportunities to local contractors to undertake civil works contracts
·       Providing direct benefits to rural populations through community contracting
·       Twinning management level positions between local and international consultants




                                                     11

·        Updating of knowledge through interaction with international staff, especially on labor based
         technologies
·        On the job and dedicated training in areas such as survey and design, GPS methodologies,
         contract administration, best construction practices, cost estimation and tendering, contract
         document preparation, financial planning and budgets, procurement etc.

Technical staff of the task team undertook a series of field visits of the NEEPRA sub projects between the
months of September and December 2007. The purpose of these field visits was to do a physical
verification of the assets constructed and assess the quality of implementation of the completed contracts.

During the period the team visited 22 sub projects in 20 districts in the provinces of Badakhshan,
Bamyan, Panjsher, Kapisa, Parwan, Nangarhar and Kabul. The works were found of satisfactory quality,
especially given the conditions during the project implementation and the lack of regular maintenance.
When visited, and driven on, the majority of the rural roads were in satisfactory condition despite the lack
of maintenance work since the completion of the sub-projects, which for some roads was more than three
years.

Of the 22 visits, only 2 structures were found of low quality: (i) a bridge in Kishim district of Badakshan,
the design of which was not appropriate to the alignment of the road, moreover discontinuity in
supervision caused overuse of materials and unnecessary cost increase; and (ii) a road in Yakawlang
district of Bamyan, where no topsoil had been removed in preparation of road construction.




                                                      12

Photo 1: Road in Yakawlang Bamyan                        Photo 2: Bridge in Kishim Badakhshan




3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Economic rate of return: The estimated ERRs based on VOC and VOT savings ranged from 5% to 46%.
Out of 14 sample road investments, three yielded ERRs ranging from 5 to 8%. Another five yielded ERRs
ranging from 12 to 19%. The rest of the projects yielded rates of return over 22%. When all the 14 sample
projects are pooled together, the rural access infrastructure investments generated NPV of US$2 million
over a 10-year project life with an ERR of 22%. Actual rate of return to the NEEPRA road investments
would be higher if non-quantified benefits directly attributable to the improved roads could be segregated
and included. These benefits were excluded from the analysis since no systematic monitoring and impact
evaluation was done. Convergence of complementary development projects in the NEEPRA project areas
will further help in exploiting the potential second round employment and other benefits but much
depends on the sustainability of the rural access infrastructure already rehabilitated under NEEPRA.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating:         Satisfactory

Based on the assessment of the project's relevance and the achievement of the PDOs the overall outcome
rating can be said to be Satisfactory. Despite the difficult context in which the project was implemented,
and the shortcomings of the line ministries and IP during implementation, the project clearly produced
important outputs consistent with the DO's. The project was also able to leverage support from other
donors fostering an enabling environment for further investment under the NRAP umbrella. However the
weakness of project M&E systems do not allow a full appreciation of the gains made.




                                                      13

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Overall, the project was responsive to issues of gender, ethnicity, local poverty conditions, community
dynamics and the institutional context.             Identification of the most vulnerable groups was handled
adequately. Local partners with good reputation and contacts ensured the consultative process took place
and helped prevent political interference and elite capture. Options for women to participate in the work-
force were promoted, using innovative solutions such as the production of building materials from home
or other socially acceptable locations.

Under NEEPRA the involvement of communities in the implementation of sub-projects was positive. The
approach adopted worked well to ensure that a pro-poor labor selection process be maintained for the
community based contracts and that community participation be transparent and generate ownership of
the sub-projects. Stakeholders consultation was carried out for all sub-projects, including secondary
access sub-projects with the involvement of social inclusion specialists.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Capacity in Afghanistan remains weak. The mid term review of the program had identified the
weaknesses and low capacity in both the public and private sector to implement, manage and maintain
infrastructure, and acknowledged that reliance on international technical assistance was absolutely
necessary for implementation. During project implementation, some amount of capacity building
activities was undertaken, including extensive on the job training, but it remains to be seen how this
limited training impacted on the overall institutional strength. The project established the following:

·         Program Implementation Units functioning in both line ministries, managing the programs of the
          ministries undertaking planning, design, implementation reporting and M& E functions.
·         An MIS/GIS system in both line ministries and the Program Development and Coordination Unit
          (PDCU), formerly known as the JPMU4.
·         Standardized technical specifications for both ministries.
·         Innovative construction techniques adopted including using pre-stressed technology, double
          surface treatment of roads, research and trial of cement/lime stabilized bases.

The NEEPRA was implemented by MRRD and MPW utilizing the services of UNOPS as the
Implementing Partner (IP). There was a perception that delivery cost of the project was on the higher side.
Nevertheless, given the country context and the low capacity of the administration, the project would
have not been implemented without the services of the IP. The two implementing ministries differed
significantly in their project implementation approach. In MPW apart from IP international staff in Kabul
and the regions, there were approximately 100 national staff on IP contract, and about 150 civil servants
working on the program. The civil servants were paid monthly project allowances as the government
salary structures are still very low. The MPW civil servants, particularly technical staff, had been
involved hands on in sub-project design and supervision and hence had gained considerable training e.g.
survey, laboratory testing, Autocad/road design etc.

4 Although the transition from JPMU to PDCU aimed at shifting the focus of the unit form operational to strategic
policy making and programs coordination, the PDCU very much remained the implementation coordination body
until the end of the project. This is due to the lack of sufficient capacity in the ministries.


                                                             14

MRRD on the other hand mostly relied on national staff on the IP contract for project implementation. In
addition to the IP's international staff based in the center and the regions, the ministry had about 200
national staff on the IP's payroll based in the center and the regions. However for MRRD, there were
approximately 120 civil servants who received operational/project related allowance, but did not
contribute significantly to the NEEP/NRAP program.

Following the NEEP/NRAP review, the World Bank prepared a short discussion paper in 2005 titled
"From Implementing Partners to Implementing Agencies" with an aim to inform the two ministries of the
issues relating to the implementing arrangements. Thereafter, both line ministries put additional effort in
identifying and retaining skilled staff and position them strategically for project implementation. The
Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR)5 program supported this process.

Furthermore, under the project, the task team also carried out an institutional review of the IP. The report
identified that certain areas like administrative procedures, and systems such as performance evaluation,
information collection and documentation needed improvement. The task team followed up on these
findings during the subsequent missions and registered progress in some areas, while others were still
lagging behind, largely due to high turnover of staff.

At the peak implementation period, there were approximately 700 staff on the payroll of the NEEP cluster
i.e. NEEPRA, NEEP-1 and NEEP DDR/RLS. Over time, several layers of project management were
created, for example, MPW and MRRD program coordinators, chief and deputy chief coordinators of the
Program Management and Coordination Unit (PDCU), director and deputy directors of the project
implementation units of MRRD and MPW. The national consultants in the central and regional PIUs had
national counterparts who were there for capacity building purposes. The number of national staff
providing services went up due to increased focus on capacity building, further dispersed geographic
location of works, and increased scope of services to be provided (support for program rather than single
project). National consultants included those individuals who had opted for the Government's Priority
Reform and Restructuring (PRR) process, and were hired on a consultancy basis through a competitive
process (undertaken by the IP). The salary scales of national staff were based loosely on PRR pay scales
(less than market rates) in order to ensure that national staff could be absorbed by the ministries at a later
stage. In June 2007, the task team carried out an analysis and recommended more rationalized staffing to
avoid duplication and underutilization of personnel.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The World Bank played a pivotal role in donor coordination and mobilization of additional financing for
Afghanistan's rural access agenda. The Bank's leadership fostered better donors' coordination which
helped avoid duplication of efforts.




5 PRR enabled the staff of core civil service departments, ministries and agencies and self-financed public sector
organizations, undertaking particular key functions, to be placed on an interim additional allowance for a fixed term
in return for undertaking a reform and restructuring process. The initial objective of the PRR was to restore
administrative capacity by stimulating incremental reform of priority functions through a combination of: (i) careful
restructuring of such units through revised vision, goals, organizational structure and job descriptions based on job
output; (ii) appointment of key staff to new positions through a merit-based open and competitive process; (iii) pay
increases through an interim allowance system to attract qualified Afghans into government and (iv) administrative
efficiency improvements.


                                                         15

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Although a formal workshop was not carried out in the field nor a comprehensive beneficiary survey,
when technical staff of the Task Team undertook a series of field visits of the NEEPRA sub projects
between the months of September and December 2007, inhabitants of the beneficiary villages and shop
keepers were asked questions about the road and their level of satisfaction. Their responses were largely
positive and mentioned better access to basic services such as health care and education, as well as to
markets and supplies. It also allowed for basic mechanization of agriculture in some areas.

One group of villagers in Panjao district of Bamyan province was particularly happy with the
rehabilitation of the road because a school was being built and the contractor had easier access to the area
thanks to the improved road, thus reducing cost and improving quality.

Another group of villagers in Kishim, Badakhshan was looking forward to the completion of the
rehabilitation works on the road, which links their valley to the district centre and from there to Kunduz,
one of the main cities in the Northern region, on a newly paved road; turning the journey from a day long
trip into one of few hours.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating:          Substantial

The main risks to the development outcome pertain to the sustainability of the investments and the
capacity of the line ministries to identify and implement suitable mechanisms to provide and manage the
maintenance of the assets. There is a lack of an overall rural infrastructure strategy and related to this,
inadequate planning for maintenance of infrastructure.

The project was a high risk ­ high reward operation. While some of the risks could be mitigated through
measures incorporated in project design, others could only be closely monitored and adjusted to, on a
continuous basis.

The escalation of the insurgency is one of the major risks to the assets and their maintenance, and to the
effective capacity of the ministries to provide services. Security is deteriorating across the country, and
particularly in the southern and eastern regions, where project staff have become casualties or received
threats and warnings. In addition, criminal activities against staff, contractors, and offices increased.

Scarce availability of qualified engineers, fiduciary specialists, and technical staff in the public sector is
exacerbated by a crowding out effect from the emerging private sector and more generously funded donor
projects may further weaken the capacity of the ministries to manage projects and programs. There is a
substantial risk that qualified national staff would leave their jobs in the ministries, due to the low civil
service salaries or to a poor management environment. Afghanistan has a very limited skills base due to
the prolonged conflict and the slow return of qualified people.

There is also a risk that experienced contractors would not be available to undertake further work,
including routine and exceptional maintenance if necessary. Again, this is due to a number of factors,
such as security and remoteness of the sites, as well as very substantial funding for road projects.




                                                     16

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating:          Satisfactory

Overall, IDA's performance is assessed as Satisfactory. Bank staff responded promptly to the
Government's needs, as should be expected in a post-conflict situation. The overall project design was
relatively simple. (The time between the concept review and effectiveness was four months). The project
design was consistent with the Bank's Assistance Strategy as well as the lessons learned from the
experience of previous Bank financed projects. The Bank paid special attention to the coordination with
other development partners to ensure a balanced and an optimal size of investment program.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating:          Moderately Satisfactory

Despite the challenging environment and circumstances under which the project operated, the skill mix in
the supervision team was well balanced. Although there was a fairly high turnover of staff in the country
office, decentralization and support from the Islamabad Office proved effective in ensuring consistent
follow-up and adequate number of visits, including a commendable effort to undertake field visits despite
security concerns. The task team also visited more than 20 provinces, and the frequency of missions was
high, e.g. a minimum of one mission per month. The team followed appropriate strategies during the
implementation phase which were responsive to client needs and changing circumstances. The
supervision team identified problems early on, made candid assessments, and took appropriate measures
as needed. During implementation there was sufficient and regular dialogue between the project team and
the government and IP counterparts. Advice was provided on technical and institutional issues and the
team ensured the coordination between the implementing agencies was adequate.

Bank relations with other development partners were collaborative and encouraged the Government to
take the lead in preparation of the Afghanistan National Development Strategy. The Bank team was also
instrumental in assisting the Government to leverage funding for the program from other development
partners. The project team benefited from the input provided by Bank's senior management in addressing
key issues raised in the course of project implementation. Such concerted efforts of the project
supervision team have helped to achieve the project objectives.

However, the Task Team agreed with the findings of the QSA7 that the project should have been formally
restructured earlier, when it became apparent the focus had to change for the project to bring more
effective and sustainable assistance to its ultimate beneficiaries: the rural poor.




                                                      17

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating:          Satisfactory

Based on the above assessment, the effort made to ensure adequate fiduciary compliance and the
continuous support extended to the client in exceptionally difficult circumstances, the overall
performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating:          Satisfactory

The Government demonstrated high levels of ownership and commitment to the project during
preparation and implementation. It took ownership from the outset, and worked closely with the Bank
team since project preparation. The government took the leadership in the program's mid term review,
acting promptly on recommendations and working with the IP and the World Bank team to implement
them. The evolution of NEEP to NRAP as strategic framework for rural access enabled the Government
to leverage and increasingly coordinate an estimated total of US$143 million committed by various
international agencies for labor based infrastructure projects.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating:          Moderately Satisfactory

MRRD and MPW demonstrated ownership and commitment as demonstrated by continuous dialogue
between them and the World Bank task team on both strategic and implementation issues.

Implementation of the project activities was undertaken by the IP and the main role of MRRD and MPW
was to coordinate its activities. The two ministries, with the TA and the IP, strengthened their capacity to
manage and oversee projects. Areas requiring further strengthening are:

o       Financial Management
o       Procurement
o       Safeguards
o       Overall Program Management

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Strong overall commitment and ownership by government and implementing agencies and improvement
of capacity in areas critical to project implementation justifies an overall rating of satisfactory.




                                                     18

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Several key lessons have emerged from this operation, which are relevant for other fragile states.

First, project implementation in a conflict affected environment, requires flexibility in deploying and re-
deploying staff; good understanding of local social structures; an ability to work with community leaders
to ensure access to project sites and security; good capacity to manage and supervise community-based
contracting, which, in volatile areas, might be the most appropriate solution and the provision of visible
benefits to the population through short lead times, employment creation, and quality infrastructure.

Second, rapid rotation of staff on both the client and the Bank sides increases the need for robust fiduciary
systems; and yet it is difficult to attract to the country quality staff who can develop and update such
systems.

Third, when the capacity of client staff is weak, capacity building efforts need be targeted to those staff
involved in project implementation rather than to general capacity building for the ministries. Experience
in Afghanistan on capacity building through provision of generalized technical assistance has had limited
success because it was neither targeted nor linked to measurable performance improvements.

Fourth, projects need to be kept as simple as possible, focusing on one or two key objectives and
minimizing the institutional demands on incipient public sector administrations. This is especially valid
during the initial post-conflict reconstruction period. This was also one of the recommendations of the
Bank's FY07 Quality of Supervision Assessment: Countries emerging from conflict generally face
considerable damage to institutional capacity, social capital and relations, economic conditions and
infrastructure, coupled with large numbers of donors and NGOs chasing projects and government
attention. Keeping project design simple increases the chances of success.

Fifth, management expectations need to be realistic. Risk is inherently higher in these contexts, and
expectations need to be adjusted in line with what can be reasonably achieved during the initial
reconstruction phase.

Although the Bank provides for fast track procedure for project preparation in conflict-affected countries,
implementation procedures remain as for standard Bank operations, and this may affect project delivery,
timeliness and effectiveness. Revision of Bank policies for implementation might be necessary to reap the
full benefits of accelerated project preparation. Post-conflict conditions need to be taken into account and
procedures should be flexible enough to accommodate specific implementation needs.

At the time of writing the ICR, there were missing assets amounting to US$297,101. A physical inventory
of all NEEPRA fixed assets at HQ and the regional offices was completed in March 2008. The IP has
prepared a summary listing of all available and missing assets, and a second round of physical inventory
was planned. This highlights the importance for the IAs and the IPs to establish a live inventory system
form the outset of the project, one that can be monitored by the Task Team during regular supervision.




                                                     19

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development, the Ministry of Public Works, the PIUs and the
IP participated in a workshop on the ICR on June 24, 2008. While all participants agreed with the content
of the report, they were eager to voice their experience and the lessons learned. Operational issues were
the main focus of the participants. They emphasized the need for more flexible procedures that could
facilitate implementation in the most insecure areas.

Security has deteriorated in several provinces during project implementation. This caused cost escalations
due to contractors unable to implement the works in a timely manner. The ministries also acknowledged
the need of additional security for the contractors, and recommended that a framework is developed for
the implementation of such projects in high risk areas of the country, this should also include provisions
to allow for single source selection of contractors in areas where only known and trusted firms can work.

All participants expressed concerns about the inability to obtain bank guarantees from the contractors and
thus enforce retention of payments until the end of the defect liability period. This had clashed with the
World Bank financial management procedures as some civil works were completed at the very end of the
financing agreement with the defect liability period extending beyond the closing date. See section 2.4 for
ineligible expenditures.

Finally, the ministries and the IP agree that their understanding of the obligations for the implementation
of the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) were weak. Required documentation
of land donation cases and environmental risk mitigation measures were largely absent from the files.
However, they feel that a detailed review of procedures and technical documents revealed that elements
of ESMF requirements have been integrated into practice. Environmental risk mitigation measures were
included as integral components in the scope of works and engineering designs for sub-projects.
Similarly, disclosure practices have been integrated into field activities showing partial compliance with
requirements. These measures were implicit in program practice. Unfortunately, the absence of explicit
ESMF activities, monitoring mechanisms and documentation make it difficult to assess the depth of
compliance with the ESMF.

(b) Co financiers
No comment received.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                      20

                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)6

                                          Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest
            Components                                                                     Percentage of
                                           (US$ millions)        Estimate (US$
                                                                    millions)                Appraisal

SUB-COMPONENT A(1):
SUBPROJECT GRANTS FOR                            13.80                  16.13                 116%
TERTIARY RURAL ACCESS
INFRASTRUCTURE (MRRD)
                  and
SUB-COMPONENT A (3) MRRD
OFFICE BUILDING IN KBL
SUB-COMPONENT A(2):
SUBPROJECT GRANTS FOR                            20.40                  21.45                 105%
SECONDARY RURAL ACCESS
INFRASTRUCTURE (MPW)
                  and
SUB-COMPONENT A (4)
REHABILITATION BY MPW OF
AIRFIELDS
COMPONENT B: TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE FOR NEEP                               5.00                   4.02                  80%

                Total Baseline Cost              39.20                  41.6                  106%
Physical Contingencies                            0.00                    0.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies                               0.00                    0.00                 0.00
                 Total Project Costs             39.20                  41.67                 106%
Project Preparation Fund                          0.00                    0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                    0.00                 0.00
         Total Financing Required                39.20                  41.6

(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest
             Source of Funds                   Type of                                       Percentage of
                                             Cofinancing      Estimate          Estimate
                                                           (US$ millions) (US$ millions)       Appraisal

Borrower                                                               0.00              0.00           0.00
International Development Association
(IDA) Credit                                                          20.40             21.45        105.00

IDA grant for post-conflict                                           18.80             20.16       106.008




6The project was formally restructured in April 2007, when more than 39.5 million had already been disbursed.
Thus cost by component were recorded only under component A1 (IDA Grant implemented by MRRD) and
component A2 (IDA Credit implemented by MPW). There was not an ex-post reallocation of costs and thus in the
Bank's system there appears to be no disbursement under components A3 and A4 because these disbursements had
already been recorded under A1 and A2.
7Increase due to exchange rate fluctuation.
8Due to SDR/USD exchange rate fluctuations over the implementation period and price increase.


                                                     21

                                   Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component A: Labor-based Rural Access Infrastructure (US$34.2 million)

This component financed sub-projects all over the country for labor-based maintenance and rehabilitation
of rural access infrastructure- primarily secondary and tertiary roads, bridges and other cross drainage
infrastructure associated with these roads.

(i)     Sub-component A(1) Subproject Grants for tertiary rural access infrastructure (US$13.8m): This
        sub-component financed subproject grants for maintenance and rehabilitation of tertiary access
        infrastructure. It also financed consulting services, training and audit, equipment and goods, and
        incremental operating costs. This subcomponent was implemented by MRRD

(ii)    Sub-component A(2) Subproject Grants for secondary rural access infrastructure (US$20.4m):
        This subcomponent financed subproject grants for secondary rural access infrastructure in all
        provinces. It also financed consulting services, training and audit, equipment and goods, and
        incremental operating costs. As part of the goods, the component financed the provision and
        erection of removal bridges to be used for restoration of rural access at critical locations where
        the expected construction costs and duration for permanent bridges was beyond the project scope.
        This component was implemented by MPW


                  Activity                Original                Revised Targets              Actual
                                           Targets                  (Minimums)                 Output
                   Roads                  2000 km                    1,400 KM                1,516.74 km
          Bridges/Cross Drainage
                 Structures                2300 m                    3,000 RM                7,033.04 m

                Labor Days                6,000,000                  2,200,000                2,711,216

(ii)    Sub-Component A.3: The carrying out by MRRD, utilizing the services of an implementation
        consultant, of the construction of a new office building for MRRD (US$1.49m). This was a partial
        contribution to the cost, the remaining funding coming from other sources.

(iii)   Sub-Component A.4: The carrying out by MPW, utilizing the services of an implementation
        consultant, of the rehabilitation works of approximately eight (8) airstrips and airfields,
        providing access to remote rural areas, unconnected to the rural network (US$1.1M)

                  Activity           Original Targets     Revised Targets (Minimums)        Actual Output
            Airfields/Airstrips              0                           8                         8
          MRRD Office Building               0                           1                         1




                                                     22

Component B: Technical Assistance (TA) for NEEP (US$5.0 million)

The TA component financed technical assistance services, studies, surveys, training and audit,
incremental operating costs, goods and works, to establish and strengthen NEEP's JPMU (later the
NRAP's PDCU) and its provincial structures.          Specifically, this component financed a program
coordinator, assisted by a team of specialists both national and international covering areas of (i) Social
Protection and Gender, (ii) Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (iii) Road/Transport Engineering and
Contract Management (iv) Irrigation and Environmental Engineering (v) Management Information
Systems, and (vi) Training. The project TA was to assist in the establishment of provincial support
structures for implementation of NEEP, assist the JPMU in the identification, design and implementation
of the studies and surveys required to develop the NEEP strategy and its operational procedures and
guidelines.

For consulting services under the TA component, ILO was selected as the Implementation Consultant.
The overall objective of the proposed NEEPRA ILO-TA was to assist MRRD and MPW in increasing the
efficiency and effectiveness of investments of the Government of Afghanistan in labor-based
infrastructure development through NEEP. Main responsibilities were the establishment of effective
coordination mechanisms between the ministries involved, including the development and introduction of
systems and procedures for management information, reporting, and monitoring & evaluation. Within the
framework of the proposed ILO TA services, issues related to social protection and labor-based
technologies were also looked into.

ILO through this TA carried out a number of survey and studies related to:

(i)     Inventories and condition surveys of the rural roads network.
(ii)    Labor productivity studies to determine appropriate labor productivity norms.
(iii)   Studies on wage rates to determine appropriate wage rate levels and systems to determine these
        wage rates within NEEP.
(iv)    Monitoring and evaluation surveys to assess the effectiveness of the strategies and operational
        procedures and to provide an input in further refining and modifying the NEEP strategy and
        operational procedures.




                                                    23

                             Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                                  (including assumptions in the analysis)

1.       Project Coverage: The formally revised project development objective was to provide year-round
access to basic services and facilities in the project areas of rural Afghanistan. NEEPRA completed 336
subprojects spread over 34 provinces, rehabilitating 1,517 Km of roads and 7,033 running meters of
bridges and other structures to provide connectivity between villages, districts and provinces. Eight
airfields/strips are also rehabilitated and upgraded. The project generated 2.7 million labor days of
employment during its implementation.

2.       Database: Monitoring and evaluation process was not put in place during the project
implementation period. No baseline and impact assessment data was available. The economic analysis in
ICR is based on data drawn from several sources. The social audit report of NRAP, covering 11 sub-
projects from nine districts and seven provinces, has documented the qualitative impacts of rural access
infrastructure investments: increased access to motorized vehicles, public buses, health services,
education facilities, employment opportunities, mechanized agriculture, distant markets and
developmental projects. Based on these findings, case studies were conducted covering a sample of 14
sub-projects distributed in 25 districts and 10 provinces. These sub-projects are equally divided between
the implementing agencies (MPW and MRRD), representing diversity in the contract levels and types of
rural access infrastructure investments. A combination of secondary data from project office documents
and health centre records; traffic surveys, community level interactions, focus group discussions and
assessment by the professional experts including the site engineers was used to generate the needed
database for quantifying the project benefits. Sampled sub-projects covered 126 Km of rehabilitated rural
roads (8% of the NEEPRA roads) and two bridges/culverts. The total investment cost is US$3.6 million,
benefiting 182 villages and 73,873 families with a total population of 0.5 million. About half of the
beneficiary families are farmer's families directly cultivating agriculture lands.

3.       Project Benefits: Improved roads have generated multiple benefits providing better access to
basic services and facilities like education and health, economic opportunities such as access to market,
employment and agriculture mechanization and development projects, for example access to primary and
secondary roads, power, drinking water supply, housing and drainage improvement investments.

4.       Basic Services and Facilities: Rehabilitated sample rural roads provided better connectivity to 23
hospitals and all villages located within a maximum distance of 7.5 Km from these hospitals availed the
improved access to health services. Outpatients availing the hospital facilities increased by 30%, women
seeking pre-natal care have gone up by 90%, and women seeking delivery care and services doubled
during the post project period. Ratio of women availing delivery services to prenatal services from these
hospitals has gone up from 41% to 51% in the benefited villages. As a result of improved roads
connectivity, 111 villages located along the sample roads got better access to schools located nearby as
well as in the district centers. Enrolled students in 17 primary schools, 22 secondary schools and 5 high
schools connected by the sample roads increased by 36% during the post project period. Proportion of
girls availing education facilities increased from 29 to 36%.

5.       Economic Opportunities: Without project, 151 villages experienced disruption in road
connectivity for 2.7 months in a year. With rehabilitated and improved roads under the project, the
disruption in roads connectivity has come down to 0.4 month in a year. The sample sub-projects
collectively generated one time employment of 205,116 labor days during the project implementation
period, providing wage rate of US$3.3 per day. Disbursed wages accounted for 19% of the actual
infrastructure investments. In addition to this direct employment, 157,342 labor days are also generated
annually due to expanded agriculture and non-agriculture activities. Nominal wage rate has gone up by
24% and real wage rate has increased by 9%, indicating improved labor productivity associated with
improved rural access infrastructure.


                                                     24

6.       Agriculture impacts: Better road connectivity triggered mechanized cultivation of wheat and
reduced the unit cost of wheat production in project benefited villages. Cropped area has gone up by 19%
and transportation cost for an average distance of 15 Km has come down by half. Improved roads
facilitated higher profit margin for the wheat producing farmers, mainly driven by improved efficiency in
agriculture; 90% contributed by reduced unit cost of production and 10% by increased unit price due to
reduced transportation cost to the market. The number of pairs of oxen has come down by 65%. Number
of tractors used by the farmers in the benefited villages more than doubled and number of threshers used
for wheat threshing more than tripled during the post project period. Area ploughed with tractors and
wheat area covered by threshers increased by about 150% during the post project period.

7.       More Development projects: Better road connectivity facilitated more flow of funds for other
development projects in the villages connected by the improved road network. Specifically, in the villages
benefiting from improved road access, investment projects covering infrastructure development (roads,
power, housing and drainage), economic development (livestock improvement, income generating
activities) and social development (drinking water supply) sectors are either completed or in advanced
stage of completion. These completed and ongoing projects, during the last three years, in the NEEPRA
beneficiary villages account for US$2.7 million funded from various national and international agencies,
amounting to 75% of the NEEPRA led infrastructure investments in the sample roads.

8.       Economic Analysis: The sample roads covered 126 Km of rehabilitated rural access
infrastructure. Incremental benefits due to improved rural roads come from savings on vehicle operating
costs (VOC) and savings in time taken for travel (VOT), which are quantified using the concept of
consumer surplus. Underlying assumptions for the economic analysis are: project life at 10 years;
potential VOC and VOT benefits due to roads to be realized in four years by equal increments; average
annual routine maintenance cost for improved roads at 5% of the investment; average periodic
maintenance cost for improved roads at 8% of the investment; frequency of periodic maintenance being
twice during the project life; average annual growth in the motorized traffic at 4.5% for with project and
1% for without project; and opportunity cost of capital at 12%. Financial prices of non-traded goods and
services have been adjusted using SCF of 0.8.

9.       VOC and VOT savings are estimated for 13 types of vehicles using the data on traffic volume and
travel time data available for before and after project situation. The needed database was drawn from
available national data, sample NEEPRA roads survey and professional experts/site engineers' judgment
supplemented with similar rural road rehabilitation investments and experiences in South Asia including
Pakistan and India. Average annual economic benefits from VOC savings is estimated at US$6,112 per
Km and average annual economic benefits from VOT savings is assessed at US$2,452 per Km for the
improved roads at 2007 prices. About 71% of the benefits result from VOC savings and the rest 29% is
coming from VOT savings.

10.      Economic Rate of Return: The estimated ERRs based on VOC and VOT savings ranged from 5%
to 46%. Out of 14 sample road investments, three sub-projects yielded least ERRs ranging from 5 to 8%.
Another five projects yielded 12 to 19%; Rest of the projects yielded over 22% rate of return. When all
the 14 sample projects are pooled together, the rural access infrastructure investments generated NPV of
US$2 million over 10-year project cycle with an ERR of 22%. Actual rate of return to the NEEPRA road
investments will be higher if some of the multiple benefits directly attributable to the improved roads can
be segregated and included. These benefits are excluded in the rate of return analysis since no systematic
M&E and Impact Assessment was done. Convergence of complimentary development projects in the
NEEPRA project areas will further help in exploiting the potential second round employment and other
benefits but much depends on the sustainability of the rural access infrastructure already rehabilitated
under NEEPRA.


                                                     25

          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

              Names                            Title           Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending



Supervision/ICR
Abdul Hameed Khalili        Operations Analyst                SASDT
Aized Hasan Mir             Consultant                        SASDA
Amer Zafar Durrani          Sr. Transport Specialist          SASDT Team Leader
Anna Cestari                Young Professional                 YPP
Aphichoke Kotikula          E T Consultant                    SASPR
Christine Helen Allison     Lead Human Development Special    SASHD
Deepal Fernando             Sr. Procurement Spec.             SARPS
Dhirendra Kumar             Consultant                        SARPS
Hasan Afzal Zaidi           Transport Specialist              SASDT
Jalpa Patel                 E T Consultant                    SASPR
Kenneth O. Okpara           Sr. Financial Management Spec.    SARFM
Maha Ahmed                  Consultant                        SASDA
Mohammad Arif Rasuli        Environmental Spec.               SASDN
Mohammad Qahir Haidari      Sr. Operations Officer            SASDT
Momina Sanam                Consultant                        SASDE
Nagaraju Duthaluri          E T Consultant                    SARPS
Naila Ahmed                 E T Consultant                    SASDA
Nobuo Yoshida               Economist                         SASPR
Palwasha Lena Kakar         Consultant                        SASDN
Peter J. Middlebrook        E T Consultant                    SASPR
Rahimullah Wardak           Procurement Analyst               SARPS
Satyendra Prasad            Consultant                        SASPR
Susanne Holste              Sr. Transport Specialist          SASDT Team Leader
Uruj Ahmad S. Kirmani       Consultant                        SARPS
Vardah Khalil Malik         Assoc. Investment Off.            CGMP8
Zafar Iqbal Raja            Sr. Highway Engineer              SASDT




                                                26

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks      US$ Thousands (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                       22                    74.91
  FY04                                                              0.79
  FY05                                                              0.00
  FY06                                                              0.00
  FY07                                                              0.00
  FY08                                                              0.00
                          Total:             22                    75.70
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                              0.00
  FY04                                       18                    66.89
  FY05                                       24                    55.83
  FY06                                       25                    72.10
  FY07                                       30                    92.97
  FY08                                                              2.65
                          Total:             97                   290.44




                                          27

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
             (if any)

         Not Applicable.




                28

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)

                 Not Applicable.




                        29

            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                Executive Summary ­ NEEPRA Final Report

The National Emergency Employment Program for Rural Access (NEEPRA), which formed a part of the
Government's National Emergency Employment Program (NEEP), was approved on 24 June, 2003 and
ended on 30 September, 2007. The program assisted the Government in providing targeted social
protection and improving key rural access infrastructure to improve the livelihoods of the rural poor in the
Government's territory by providing: (i) emergency short term employment opportunities for the poor on
labor-based rural access infrastructure improvement subprojects; and (ii) technical assistance for the
implementation of NEEP (later NRAP). The United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) was
the Implementing Partner for the project, providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) and the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD).

The project comprised two components: A) labor-based rural access rehabilitation reconstruction
subprojects; and, B) technical assistance to support the Government's overall NEEP/NRAP. The Credit
portion financed the reconstruction of secondary rural access infrastructure - primarily bridges. The Grant
financed the rehabilitation of tertiary rural access infrastructure and technical assistance to the
Government for implementing its NEEP/NRAP.

When the project was first implemented, it was expected to create a minimum of 6,000,000 unskilled
labor days of employment, and to rehabilitate a minimum of 2,000 km of rural roads and 2,300 m of
bridges. These targets were eventually retroactively revised to support the project Mid Term Review
(MTR) as well as the 7th Quality of Supervision Assessment and a request from the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan.

In addition to the revision of the targets, NEEP was renamed National Rural Access Program (NRAP),
which de-emphasized the original safety net objective and focused the outcome of the project on rural
access development. The MTR suggested that "to be effective, the Government should focus NEEP on
the delivery of rural infrastructure with an aim to promote rural growth and reduce rural poverty
primarily through the provision of local access infrastructure.

                                       Table 1: Progress against Targets
             Activity                   Original     Revised Targets9 (Minimums)          Actual Output    Status10
                                         Targets
Roads                                 2000 KM        1400 KM                             1516.74 KM        100%
Bridges/Cross Drainage Structures     2300 RM        3000 RM                             7033.04 RM        100%
Labor Days                            6,000,000      2,200,000                           2,711,216         100%
Airfields/Airstrips                   0              8                                   8                 100%
MRRD Office Building                  0              1                                   1                 100%




9The reason for the revised targets were that wages were higher than expected during the original project design; the
shift to more Level 2 projects, which are more expensive, but resulted in more durable infrastructure; the urgent
need to rehabilitate/renovate airfields in the most remote provinces where road construction will not take place for
many years; and the construction of the MRRD office complex which allowed for the consolidation of MRRD staff.
10Though every project is complete, there are some sub-projects still under the defect liability period.


                                                         30

Factors leading to success

Each benchmark set for measuring the success of the project was met and in some cases, exceeded.
Contributing to these successes were (a) the long term experience of IP working on road projects in
Afghanistan, (b) the cadre of experienced engineers working within MPW, (c) the extensive training and
capacity building of the civil servants in the ministries and the regional (as opposed to centralized)
structure of the project which allowed critical decisions to be made by experts in the field by the IP. The
three-tier training system ensured that knowledge and expertise from international consultants was passed
to national consultants, who then trained ministry civil servants in their own language(s).

Issues/Challenges Faced

One of the main challenges faced in the successful implementation of the project was the generally low
capacity of the private sector construction industry, and their inability to accurately plan and manage
technically complex, multi-faceted sub-projects. Due to the new emphasis on higher quality, more
durable secondary roads, there was a greater reliance on construction companies, rather than unskilled
labor. Minimal investments in rural infrastructure were made during the conflicts of the past decades and
the private sector is still in its infancy. The business environment in Afghanistan is not an enabling one
and the lack of easy access to bank loans and credit make the purchase of heavy equipment or machinery
very difficult. Additionally, public sector capacity to plan, manage and supervise these projects was
similarly weak and required a significant capacity building effort to improve their abilities.

Extensive capacity building within MRRD and MPW was needed in order to allow the ministries to assert
national control over the project and to ensure compliance with governmental targets. Specifically,
training in contract management, financial management, procurement and reporting were identified as
critical areas for development. The training system was designed in three tiers. International consultants
were at the top, passing their skills and knowledge to national consultants, who then passed this training
to national civil servants. This was a successful method, which in the medium term (4 years) has allowed
the civil servants to assert control over day to day management of the projects when their skills became
sufficient.

The Ministers of MRRD and MPW are both critical members of the Steering Committee of the NRAP,
which drives policy and planning, resource allocation, funding modalities and management oversight for
the project. Unfortunately, due to circumstances beyond the control of the IP and NRAP, the Ministers
were only infrequently able to give the critical guidance and input that the Steering Committee needed.

Main Lessons Learned

Significant capacity building of private sector contractors was needed in contract management and
planning, quality of works, and estimates of quantities. Ministry personnel working directly with the
contractors improved their capacities in these areas, but there is still a great deal more room for
improvement.

The lack of involvement of the steering committee was noticeable and their input and guidance are critical
in ensuring that programs meet the governmental benchmarks and goals for rural development. In future
projects, a fully engaged steering committee will be instrumental in ensuring that the government
agencies fulfill their expected roles and duties as well as operating within a framework of clearly defined
and agreed policies.




                                                     31

For community contracting, it is critical to involve the local Community Development Councils of the
NSP or/and the Shuras early in the planning process to ensure the cooperation and good will of the
beneficiaries. These coordination efforts give the communities a sense of ownership in the process, help
to manage expectations for the scope of the work and allow grievances from landowners to be dealt with
by the community itself. By hiring unskilled labor from the communities, short term employment
provided some security to the most vulnerable families and gave the entire community a stake in the
success of the sub-project.

Additionally, the following lessons apply not only to NEEPRA, but future road rehabilitation projects:

·       Need for long-term planning instruments and a Rural Road Investment Plan for NRAP that fits
        into an agreed policy framework to guide planning of sub-project design
·       Need for improved measures for quality control and compliance with standards/specifications
·       Need for continued formal and comprehensive public and private (contractor/consultant) sector
        training programs
·       Need to urgently address maintenance and develop appropriate systems and procedures together
        with organizational structures within MRRD and restore those already existing in MPW for the
        management and implementation of maintenance
·       Need to review the Global Unit Rates (used for overall planning purposes) for various types of
        rural road rehabilitation and maintenance works together with the development of a common Unit
        Rate Analysis (URA) methodology for use by Client organizations and the contracting
        community
·       Need to further develop geometric design standards for rural roads in Afghanistan
·       Development of systems and procedures for operations of Government owned equipment




                                                    32

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                              33

                            Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



1.  Mission Terms of References, Aide-Memoires, Post Mission Management Letters and Back-to-
    Office Reports of Preparation and Supervision Missions
2.  Technical Annex
3.  Legal Documents and Amendments
4.  Project Status Reports (PSRs)/Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
5.  Mid Term Review Report
6.  QSA7 Final Report
7.  Economic Analysis Full Report
8.  Field visits report for September-December 2007
9.  National Emergency Employment Program Strategic Framework and Work Plan SY
    1384
10. NEEP-NRAP from IPs to IAs (Mar 06)
11. UNOPS Institutional Review Report
12. Re-orientation of Afghanistan National Emergency Employment Program Toward Rural Access
13. Technical Report on Social Protection Issues in NEEP 2003
14. Two Jobs One Shovel 2204
15. Social Protection Outcomes under NEEP and Modalities Used 2004
16. The Road from Emergency Employment towards Integrated Rural Access 2006




                                              34

35

