Report No. PID6479
Project Name                     Egypt-Port Sector Reform Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Infrastructure
Project ID                       EGPE57704
Borrower                          Government of Egypt
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Enterprise Sector
Environmental Category           C
Date PID Prepared                May 15, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           April 21, 1998
Project Board Date               TBD
1.      Background:   Egypt's ports are critical to the Government's development
strategy which, for its high growth scenario, relies on non-oil merchandise
exports growing at between 15 percent and 17 percent per annum through the
year 2005. A key obstacle to such export-led growth is deficiencies in the
ports sector, which affects the reliability of Egypt's trade logistics, and
most critically, reduces competitiveness of Egyptian exports. Delays in cargo
delivery times and associated high costs to shippers are often identified by
Egyptian exporters as the main areas in which the Government could improve
their prospects for growth.
2.      At the same time, the strategic location of Egyptian ports, situated at
the entrances of the Suez Canal, provide many opportunities for transshipment
services to international shipping, particularly for the eastern Mediterranean
region. The Government has sought to seize these opportunities and address
the deficiencies identified so that the ports sector can more positively
contribute to economic growth and job creation.
3.      Project Objectives and Description:   The overall development objective of
the project is to improve the efficiency of Egyptian ports and ancillary
services through regulatory reform, commercialization of sector agencies, and
development of a privatization plan and labor redeployment program for
selected organization units.
4.      The project is designed to develop regulatory, institutional and
financial arrangements in the ports sector which will enable greater private
sector participation and the effective privatization of existing public sector
enterprises operating in the country's ports. The technical assistance to be
provided is organized in three phases, and project components to be financed
under the credit include:
(a)     Maritime Sector Diagnostics.   Identifies deficiencies in the
logistical system of Egypt's exports and imports, and in particular, those
which deter, or increase the cost of, containerized transport, including
customs and other inspections procedures. Specific activities include: (i)
review of recent studies on trade logistics and the potential for container
transshipment in Egyptian hub-ports, and recommend a strategy to increase port



efficiency and Egypt's market share in container transshipment; and (ii)
develop specifications, bidding documents and organizational arrangements to
implement an Electronic Data Interchange system.
(b)     Regulatory Reform.  Addresses regulatory issues surrounding the
reorganization of publicly-held enterprises along commercial lines, and
strengthens the role of private investment in maritime enterprises. Specific
activities include: (i) design of a policy framework which accommodates
greater private sector participation in the ports sector; and (ii) produce
draft regulations which support the new policy framework.
(c)     Corporatization of the Maritime Sector.   Defines appropriate
organizational structures and financial management systems for port sector
entities, and provides a process for implementing the recommendations
identified in the first two components. Specific activities include: (i)
creation of a new structure of corporatized organizations in the sector and
assist in its implementation; (ii) restructure the financial management
systems for port sector entities to make them autonomous and self-financing;
and (iii) define a phased privatization plan for future implementation and
develop a redeployment program for surplus labor.
5.      Project Cost and Financing:   The total cost of the project is
approximately US$2.30 million. The International Development Association
(IDA) will provide a Credit of US$2.00 million, and the Government of Egypt
will provide US$300,000 worth of in-kind contributions.
6.      Project Implementation:   The project would be implemented over an 18
month period, and it is envisaged that a Port Sector Reform Committee,
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Public Sector
Enterprise, Transportation, Trade and Finance, would oversee project
implementation.
7.      Project Sustainability:   Factors which could impact the project's long-
term sustainability include: (i) cabinet approval of a revised policy and
regulatory framework for the ports sector; (ii) cooperation, agreement and
information sharing among key implementing agencies; and (iii) labor's
acceptance of a privatization plan and labor redeployment program.
8.      Lessons Learned:   A couple of important lessons learned from past work
involving technical assistance and the ports sector in Egypt have been
incorporated into this project, mainly: (i) building safeguards into the
project's design to ensure that the government is strongly committed to
implementing TA; (ii) appraising project risks in a realistic manner and
designing project objectives accordingly; and (iii) implementing a
corporatization strategy as an interim step to privatization of public
enterprises.
9.      Poverty Category:   N/A
10.     Environmental Aspects:   The project has been given an environmental
category rating of "C." As a part of the corporatization/privatization
program, assurances would be sought to ensure that a Compliance Action Plan
would be prepared for the corporatized/privatized entities in accordance with
the Egyptian Environmental Protection Law No. 4 of 1994, and that
-2 -



international treaties and agreements on environment and international
waterways would be followed.
11.     Program Objective Categories:    With regard to the World Bank's program
objectives, this project would increase private sector involvement in the
management and operation of port sector facilities and services. In addition,
the project will create employment opportunities through increased demand for
ancillary services in the ports sector.
Contact Point:                    Mr. George Tharakan, TM
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 473-2597
Fax No. (202) 477-0348
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 5, 1998.
- 3 -



