 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14881

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 01/07/2016

               Country: Pakistan
             Project ID: P095982                                                       Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Electricity Distribution        Project Costs (US$M):                   309.86               159.03
                         And Transmission
                         Improvement Project
  L/C Number:            C4463; C4464; L7565            Loan/Credit (US$M):                     256.70               140.60
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining              Cofinancing (US$M):

            Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                           06/17/2008
                                                                  Closing Date:          06/30/2012       02/28/2014
           Sector(s):       Power (92%); Energy efficiency in power sector (6%); Central government administration
                            (2%)
          Theme(s):         Infrastructure services for private sector development (100% - P)


Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                 Fernando Manibog        Christopher David           IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                         Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

This project was the first phase of a planned Adjustable Project Lending (APL) series.

The project development objective was:

(i) strengthen the capacity of the distribution and transmission networks to meet increasing electricity demand in the
selected areas more efficiently and with better reliability and quality . and (ii) strengthen institutional capacity of the
selected distribution companies and support other priority areas of the power sector reform . Project Appraisal
Document (PAD, page 6).

There is no statement of objectives for the program or project in the Project or in the Financing Agreement. This ICR
review is based on the project development objective as stated in the PAD.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Components:

A. Physical strengthening of distribution networks : (Cost at Appraisal: US$253.38 million; Formally revised estimate
following the first project restructuring US$213.88 million: Cost at completion: US$133.45 million). This component
aimed at the physical strengthening of the distribution networks operated by the four electricity supply distribution
companies (DISCOs): The Hyderabad Electric Supply Company (HESCO); the Islamabad Electric Supply Company
(IESCO); the Lahore Electric Supply Company (LESCO); and The Multan Electric Power Company (MEPCO).
Activities included: (i) a 2- year time slice of the 5-year investment program in secondary transmission grid (STG) of
the four distribution companies; (ii) a 2 -year time slice of the investment in electricity loss reduction (ELR) program of
IESCO and MEPCO: and (iii) a pilot Energy Loss Reduction (ELR) program for HESCO.

B. Removing some bottlenecks in the transmission grid , operated by NTDC. (Cost at Appraisal: US$24.40 million;
appraisal estimates remained unchanged following the first project restructuring: Cost at completion: US$20.12
million) This component aimed at constructing a substation and transmission line for the National Transmission and
Despatch Company (NTDC) to relieve a bottleneck in serving MEPCO.

C. Technical assistance to Capacity building , (Cost at Appraisal: US$16.59 million; Formally revised estimate
following the first project restructuring US$6.85 million: Cost at completion: US$5.46 million). This component aimed
at providing technical assistance and capacity-building support for building procurement expertise, Information and
technology studies, and other specialized studies to help the companies and sector agencies in strengthening their
capacity in critical business and policy areas.

D. A pilot energy efficiency program . (Cost at Appraisal: US$15.00 million: This component was dropped at project
restructuring. Actual cost at completion US$0.00 million). This component aimed at financing a pilot energy efficiency
program for installing energy saving equipment for customers. Activities included, placing incandescent bulbs with
compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) at customer premises and providing pre-paid metering, automatic meter reading
and remote metering systems for selected residential and commercial customers.

Revised Components.

The project was restructured on May 10, 2012, less than two months before the original completion date, with the
approval of the Regional Vice President, to simplify the project design and focus only on activities that were critical to
achieving the project development objective and could be completed within the extended time frame.

The following activities were dropped: (i) project activities under component A that were not deemed to be urgent
because of the power shortages caused by the lack of generation capacity; (ii) most of the technical assistance
activities under component C were dropped, as some of these activities were financed by other development partners
and some were deemed to be not ready for immediate financing. (iii) all activities under component D were dropped.
(v) US$ 4 million of the funds under the technical assistance component were reallocated to the Ministry of Water and
Power (MOWP) companies to support the sector’s emerging priorities such as power trade with neighboring countries.
Following this restructuring, the project closing date was extended by 20 months for completing the delayed activities.

The Project was again restructured just prior to the revised closing date to cancel the available IDA funds and the
cancelled funds were reallocated to the Pakistan portfolio of future projects.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: (cost at appraisal US$309.86 million. Revised estimate US$245.13 million. Actual cost at closure
US$159.03 million), The actual cost was lower than estimated on account of the reduced scope of project activities
following the first restructuring of the project.

Project Financing: The project was financed through a combination of IBRD loan and IDA grant. At appraisal, the
total Bank financing was estimated at US$256.70 million (This included IBRD financing of US$173.60 million and the
IDA grant of US$83.10 million). Following the first project restructuring, about 25 percent of the original loan amount
(US$62.00 million) was cancelled and with this cancellation, the revised estimate for Bank financing was US$192.61
million. Following the second project restructuring, US$2.00 million was cancelled and reallocated by the Bank to the
Pakistan portfolio of future projects.The Bank financing at closure was US$114.60 million (This included IBRD
financing of US$88.30 million and IDA grant of US$52.30 million). There was parallel financing for complementary
activities in the power sector from the Asian Development Bank (ADB).

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower contribution was estimated at US$53.16 million and the estimates remained
unchanged following the first project restructuring. At closure their contribution was 36 percent of the appraised
amount at US$18.98 million. The ICR does not provide reasons for the shortfall in borrower contribution. The team
clarified that 16 sub-projects, estimated at US$17.00 million, went beyond the project closing date. These ongoing
activities were to be financed by the implementing agencies. Therefore, the actual contribution by the borrower for the
contracts that were awarded under the project was expected to be about US$36.00 million.

Dates: Following the extension of the project closing date by 20 months from the original date, June 30, 2012, the
project closed on February 28, 2014.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

The project development objective was relevant in the country context. In the years prior to appraisal, successive
years of high growth (with real GDP growing at more that 7% on average during the 2004 and 2007 period), had led
to increase in demand for electricity in Pakistan. The government had started power sector reforms such as, opening
the sector to private investment, establishing an independent National Electric Power Regulatory Agency (NEPRA) in
1998 and unbundling a vertically integrated power sector utility (Water and Power Development Authority) into four
generation, one transmission and nine distribution companies.

Despite these changes, the power sector was characterized by energy shortages and financial deficits. While
electricity sales rose by 40 percent in the five years before 2007, electricity generation remained practically stagnant
and the system was not able to cover peak demand. At the time of appraisal, it was important for the government to
address energy sector issues such as: (i) investing in new generation to provide sufficient electricity supply; (ii)
strengthening the transmission and distribution mechanisms to reduce technical and commercial losses and adopting
energy efficiency measures on the demand side (such as adopting cost-reflective tariffs, promoting efficiency in
equipment, technology design, and better peak load management); and (iii) regulatory reform (using tariffs and
subsidies) to ensure the financial viability of the electricity companies, strengthen the capacity of the new companies
in other areas of corporate functions, and establish a track record of performance and creditworthiness.

The project development objectives were relevant and continue to be relevant to the Government Strategy. The 2003
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) entitled "Accelerating Economic Growth and Reducing Poverty: The Road
Ahead", aimed at focusing on second-generation reforms to accelerate growth to over 6 percent through among
things, improving the performance of the key public enterprises, particularly in the power sector. The National Power
Policy (2013) highlighted the key weaknesses/challenges in the transmission and distribution sector, and set targets
for reducing transmission and distribution losses from 23-25 percent to 16 percent and improve revenue collection
from 85 percent to 95 percent.

The project development objectives were relevant and continue to be relevant to the Bank strategy for Pakistan. Two
of the pillars of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the fiscal years 2006-2009 period were: (i) sustaining
growth and improving competitiveness through significant investment in infrastructure, including in the power sector;
and (ii) improving government effectiveness and service delivery through among other things, strengthening power
sector governance. The project development objectives were consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
for FY06-09. The CPS underlined the need for significant investment in infrastructure, including in the power sector,
for sustaining growth and improving competitiveness. The objectives were also supported by the CPS for FY10-14
and FY15-19. This CPS emphasized the importance of an efficient power sector for sustaining growth and improving
service delivery.

b. Relevance of Design:

Modest

The causal links between the project activities and outputs were clear and the project development outcome was
clearly stated. The outputs associated with component one, two and four can be expected to contribute to
strengthening the capacity of the distribution and transmission companies to meet the demand for electricity efficiently
and with better reliability and quality. The technical assistance and capacity-building activities can be expected to
contribute to strengthening the institutional capacity of the distribution companies in contributing to power sector
reforms.

      The project however had an overly complex design, covering transmission and distribution with four distribution
       companies, removing bottlenecks in the transmission grid operated by the National Transmission and Despatch
       Company and a pilot energy efficiency pilot program. Each of these components could have been addressed
       through a separate project for each company.
      The project design did not adequately address the broader power sector issues as envisaged by the project. In
       addition to strengthening the newly formed electricity distribution companies, the project also aimed at
       addressing broader power sector issues related to governance and regulatory aspects so that the power
       companies could function independently on a purely commercial basis. The design of the project however did not
       include a study of the political economy to address critical risks. As a result, the technical assistance component
       for capacity building and sector reforms could not be implemented in the manner envisaged. As the ICR
     acknowledges, focusing on one or two utilities and building their capacity, would have been better for a more
     robust project design. Based on the experience of these utilities, the project scope could have been expanded at
     the later stage, either through additional bank financing or collaborating with other donors (ICR, page 5).
    Although the project envisaged reduction of technical losses of the transmission and distribution systems, the
     design did not include comprehensive revenue protection activities, such as disconnection of non-paying
     consumers or computerized metering (ICR, page 6).
    The results framework had weaknesses. The indicators measured overall performance of the electricity
     companies but failed to measure interim progress of the project. The physical indicators were not appropriate for
     measuring development outcomes.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The project development objectives were: (i) strengthen the capacity of the distribution and transmission networks to
meet increasing electricity demand in the selected areas more efficiently and with better reliability and quality. ( ii)
strengthen institutional capacity of the selected distribution companies and support other priority areas of the power
sector reform.

Objective One: strengthen the capacity of the distribution and transmission networks to meet increasing electricity
demand in the selected areas more efficiently and with better reliability and quality. Modest

Outputs

    75 sub-projects under this component were completed at closure out of a total of planned 115 sub projects.
    53 grid stations were completed as compared to the target of 59 grid stations.
    2.35 million customers were provided with connections by the Islamabad Electric Power Supply Company at
     project closure as compared to the revised target of 2.30 million and the original target of 2.36 million. 1.61
     million customers were provided with connections by the Hyderabad Electric Power Supply Company as per the
     revised target and as compared to the original target of 1.80 million. 3.58 million customers were provided with
     connections by the Lahore Electric Power Supply Company at project closure as compared to the revised target
     of 3.59 million customers and as compared to the original target of 3.4 million customers. 4,67 million customers
     were provided with connections by the Multan Electric Supply Company at project closure as compared to the
     revised target of 4.60 million customers and as compared to the original target of 4.68 million customers.
    Average voltage condition improved in the four distribution companies as targeted.

Outcomes

    8,830 Gigawatt-hours of electricity per year was handled by the Islamabad Electric Power Supply Company at
     project closure as compared to the revised target of 8.784 and original target of 11,640 Gigawatts- hours per
     year, 9,356 Gigawatt-hours per year was handled by the Hyderabad Electric Power Supply Company as
     compared to the revised target of 9,683 and as compared to the original target of 9,897.
    The annual Transmission and Distribution (T&D) losses of the four companies at project closure are as follows:
     The annual T&D losses of IESCO declined to 8.6% as compared to the revised and original targets of 9.55% and
     11.4%. Annual T&D losses of HESCO declined to 8.6% as compared to the revised and original targets of
     9.55% and 11.4%.Annual T&D losses of MEPCO declined to 17.6% as compared to the revised and original
     targets of 17.4% and 18%. Annual T&D losses of LESCO increased relative to the baseline.

The data provides limited evidence of improvement in reliability and quality of supply. There are six to eight hours
daily of service interruptions due to load shedding in peak summer and winter seasons. The increase in number of
customers and allowing the load growth of existing consumers without a corresponding increase in generation
contributed to the increase in the duration of load shedding.

Objective Two: strengthen institutional capacity of the selected distribution companies and support other priority areas
of the power sector reform. Modest

Outputs

    The training plan was completed by all four implementing agencies as targeted. Foreign and local training
     (covering technical, financial management, project management, procurement and other relevant areas) was
     provided as targeted for the staff of all the four distribution companies..
    An international procurement advisor was recruited to address the weaknesses highlighted in the procurement
     system at project closure, as targeted.
    The pilot studies by Alternative Energy Development Board were completed as targeted.
Outcomes

    As indicated in Section 2a, most of the technical assistance activities aimed at the institutional strengthening of
     the distribution companies were not completed as targeted. Part of the financing intended for these activities
     were reallocated to the Ministry of Water and Power (MOWP) to support the sector’s emerging priorities.
    Improvements in financial performance were measured through indicators such as collection rate (revenue
     collected as a percentage of the revenue billed) of the distribution companies. However, the collection rate of the
     distribution companies showed a declining trend at project closure. While other factors, such as increase in cost,
     lack of a comprehensive revenue protection program and the law and order situation could have contributed to
     the low collection rates, it is safe to conclude that lack of institutional strengthening component significantly
     contributed to the low collection rate of the distribution companies.
    Tariffs to end users were not revised by the government as envisaged. The combination of the two factors --
     non-revision of tariffs and low collection rates -- contributed to the distribution companies' not being financially
     viable at project closure.


5. Efficiency:

Substantial

An economic analysis was conducted both at appraisal and at closure for component one (physical strengthening of
distribution networks operated by the four distribution companies) and component two (removing some bottlenecks in
the transmission grid operated by the National Transmission and Despatch Company) activities. These activities
accounted for approximately 97 percent of the total project cost. The main benefits of the project were to come from
the increase in sales due to enhanced transmission capacity and lower power purchases due to reduction in losses.
Other benefits such as improvement in the quality of supply due to reductions in breakdowns, outages and improved
voltage design were not included in the quantitative analysis for lack of reliable data. The ex post Economic Rate of
Return (EIRR) for all the distribution companies was 47 percent as compared to the ex ante EIRR of approximately 22
percent.

Administrative and operational shortcomings

There were implementation delays. These were caused by factors such as delays associated with ratifications of the
project agreement by the distribution companies, major delays in the procurement cycle, and non- adherence to
specific agreements on timelines. The project was restructured just a few days prior to the original closing date and
the project closing date was extended by 20 months. Following this restructuring, only the contracts that were either
ongoing or at final stage of award were carried forward. At closure, US$64 million was cancelled, US$32 million worth
of contracts were not awarded, and contracts amounting to US$56 million were not completed. At closure, only 73%
of the bank financing for this project was disbursed.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      22%                                     90%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      47%                                     97%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project development objectives were highly relevant to the government strategy and the Bank Strategy for
Pakistan. Design was rated as Modest. Efficacy of the two objectives was rated as Modest. Efficiency was rated as
Substantial. The ex post EIRR was higher than the ex ante EIRR. There were however implementation delays and at
closure, only 65% of the planned sub projects was completed and 73% was disbursed.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Country risk: Given the past performance of public sector power companies and uneven commitment of the
government for reforms, there is substantial risk to ongoing benefits from the project. To date, Pakistan is facing
power shortages and relies on expensive fuel oil for power generation. Meeting the demand for energy and bringing
low-cost power generation would require substantial investments, and it is not clear if the government can mobilize
the amount of investment required.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

     As discussed in section 3b, there were significant issues with the design including its over-complexity,
      inadequate measures for addressing broader power sector reforms through technical assistance activities,
      and lack of a comprehensive revenue protection program for addressing the technical losses of the
      distribution companies.
     The time frame envisaged at appraisal (four years) was too short for a electricity distribution project involving
      four companies.
     The indicators chosen for monitoring were inappropriate for measuring the interim progress of the project and
      were designed more for measuring the performance of the electricity companies.
     Despite the identification of several issues pertaining to financial management (such as lack of financial
      independence and lack of controls in the billing system), the management arrangements were rated as
      satisfactory. Neither the risk matrix nor the legal covenants took account of these risk factors.
     There were weaknesses in the technical design of the bidding documents and some bidding documents
      prepared in advance needed to be revised, leading to delays.
     There were procurement management issues. Adequate operating procedures were not put in place for strict
      adherence to the Procurement Plan during project preparation. This resulted in recurrent issues during project
      implementation (such as iterations in documents, leakage of procurement-related confidential information,
      unusual bidding patterns and possible indications of collusion).
     There were significant drawbacks in M&E design.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Comprehensive review missions were conducted annually during the first two years and every six months
thereafter. The missions included field visits that covered a wide area. The quality of oversight was affected on
account of the logistics associated with five implementing agencies and project components spread over a large
area of two provinces.
   The mid-term review was carried out just a year before project closure and the project restructuring was done
    too late during implementation. This left no choice other than cancellation of remaining loan amounts
    (discussed in section 2d).
   There were procurement issues and the team did not take a stronger stance against mishandling of
    procurement, delays in finalizing bidding documents, and reneging on the remedial actions by the
    implementing agencies.



     Quality of Supervision Rating :               Unsatisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
Government commitment/ownership was high during the preparation and design phase as it continued the power
sector reform program articulated in early 1990s to transform the newly-created generation, transmission and
distribution companies into commercially-oriented and efficiently managed companies. All the companies had
taken the first step towards their financial autonomy by completing the annual consumer tariff determinations in
2007.

      The power sector reforms however did not continue through the implementation phase. Tariffs were not
       revised in line with rapidly increasing costs and the companies were not able move towards financial viability.
       The implementation of the project was also hampered by the weak governance structure and government's
       interference in the energy sector.



      Government Performance Rating                              Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

There were five implementing agencies - the Islamabad Electric Supply Company (IESCO), the Lahore Electric
Supply Company (LESCO), the Multan Electric Power Company (MEPCO), the Hyderabad Electric Supply
Company, the National Transmission and Despatch Company (NTDC) and the Pakistan Electric Power Company
(PEPCO). The implementing agencies complied with the financial covenants.

      There were considerable delays in project implementation and resolution of implementation issues, which
       were within the control of the implementing agencies.
      Although the implementing agencies had established safeguard units within their respective organizations
       and engaged environmental and social safeguard specialists within these units, compliance with the
       environmental issues was not adequate (discussed in section 11).
      There were procurement issues and according to the Independent Procurement Review conducted by the
       Bank, based on a sample of 27 contracts, the compliance by implementing agencies with Bank's Guidelines
       and procedures was only 26%.


      Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

      Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The key performance indicators measured the effect of the project on the capacity of the distribution and transmission
networks to deliver the amounts of electricity, which consumers demand with improved reliability in terms of the
overall annual electricity throughput and the total level of losses (which include both technical and commercial losses)
to cover the efficiency aspect of the first objective. Selected intermediate indicators measured increased access,
reliability and quality of supply in terms of number of customers, interruptions and voltage conditions.

      There was no indicator to measure the technical assistance component of the project and the project used an
       input - training provided to the staff- as an outcome indicator. A more appropriate indicator would have been to
       gauge the extent to which training contributed to increasing the managerial and operational expertise of the staff,
       and how this expertise was applied.

b. M&E Implementation:

There was no system put in place either as part of the project or by utilities to improve data collection for better
monitoring and decision-making purposes.

c. M&E Utilization:
The losses and collection figures of the distribution companies were audited by independent auditors and units of
electricity purchased and billed through metering.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as "Category B" for environmental assessment purposes. Three safeguard policies were
triggered: (i) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01); (ii) Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and (iii) Projects in
Disputed areas (OP/BP 7.60).

Environmental Assessment : At the appraisal stage, Environmental and Social Assessments (ESA) and
Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) were completed by all the implementing agencies and publicly
disclosed. The ICR (page 12) notes that compliance with safeguards was not deemed to be satisfactory in the initial
years of the project due to the lack of experience of the implementing agencies and their contractors. However, "the
compliance improved gradually and at the final monitoring at the end of the construction phase, revealed that the
project did not cause significant lasting or irreversible environmental impacts" (ICR, page 12).

Involuntary Assessment : Land acquisition was required for the grid stations and where transmission lines pass, there
could damage to crops on cultivated land. At the appraisal stage, Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) were prepared
by the implementing agencies that undertook land acquisition for grid construction. This included, the Islamabad
Electric Supply Company (IESCO) and the Multan Electric Supply Company (MESCO). An abbreviated RAP was
prepared by the Lahore Electricity Supply Company (LESCO), in view of the limited number of projected affected
people in that area. The other measures taken by the implementing agencies for ensuring compliance with social
safeguards included the creation of Social and Environment cells to oversee the implementation of social safeguards
in the field during the implementation phase..

There were significant delays in payment of compensation due the lack of clarity on the standardization of
compensation payments. Compensation payments were still pending at the time of project closure.

Projects in Disputed areas : This safeguard was triggered as IESCO's geographical reach extended to parts of Azad
Kashmir, a disputed territory between Pakistan and India. According to the information provided by the team leader,
no issues were reported with respect to the works carried out by IESCO in the disputed areas at project closure.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management and Procurement : Existing financial management arrangements in the implementing
agencies were used. The ICR (page 13) notes that adequate staffing was maintained during the life of the project.
There was compliance with the financial covenants. Quarterly financial reports and annual audit statements were
submitted on time. The ICR (page 13) notes that internal audit arrangements were also in place in most cases and
these were submitted on time in all cases, excepting one. The exception was MEPCO, where no internal audit was
conducted, despite several remainders at project closure. The task team leader clarified that the auditors report on the
audited financial statement of MEPCO for June 2014, was qualified on some issues.

Procurement: There were procurement management issues. Adequate operating procedures were not put in place
for strict adherence to the Procurement Plan during project preparation, which led to recurrent issues during project
implementation, such as leakage of procurement-related confidential information, unusual bidding patterns and
possible indications of collusion. The project progress was hampered by frequent complaints, contractual disputes
and litigation issues. The ICR (page 10) notes that the power equipment market in Pakistan was not sufficiently open
and competitive and that the manufactures of distribution equipment were not used to open and competitive bidding
processes based on Bank guidelines and concerns raised by the potential bidders. According to the Independent
Procurement Review conducted by the Bank, based on a sample of 27 contracts, the compliance by implementing
agencies with Bank's Guidelines and procedures was only 26%. The task team leader clarified that there were no
cases of misprocurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR draws the following lessons from the implementation experience of this project.

(1). It is better not to overload investment projects with policy reforms. The experience of this energy sector project
demonstrated that it would be better to implement an investment project and then complement it with broader sector
and governance reforms.

(2) A relatively flexible project design, which would enable the Bank to adapt to the needs of the multiple
implementing agencies as in case of this project, without requiring administrative approvals and formal
amendments to the legal agreements, can help in making the required changes during implementation. This
flexibility can also aid in creating competition among the implementing agencies and thereby provide incentives for
routing financing to the better-performing entities.

(3) Identifying key issues at the preparation stage through lending or non-lending technical assistance activities can
help in avoiding implementation delays.

(4)Technical specifications should be prepared at the design stage, so that the project is ready for implementation
upon approval.

(5) Given the challenges associated with creation of new utilities after unbundling, it would have been better to start
at a smaller scale with few utilities, help them develop a Business Plan to identify priorities and provide them with
capacity-building and institutional strengthening support during the project preparation period. This experience,
together with consultation workshops involving utility officials, could be used for developing a robust project design
that could be expanded to other utilities with additional financing.

(5) Project design should carefully establish a direct relationship between articulation of the PDO and the
information needed to measure progress against that PDO.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR provides a candid presentation of the difficulties and issues involved in implementing this project. It also
clearly discusses the problems associated with procurement. The lessons are thorough and evidence- based.

The discussion of the efficacy sections could have been clearer and it often becomes difficult to reconcile the figures
given in the data sheet with the discussion of efficacy in the body of the text. The ICR could have provided more
details on the Pakistan program (ICR, page 3).The ICR incorrectly rates the Risk to Development Outcome as
"Substantial". Substantial is not a recognized IEG rating.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
