Doemnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIaAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13614
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2405-TU)
OCTOBER 14, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   = Turkish Lira (TL)
US$ 1.00 (at Appraisal, 1984)   = 270 TL
US$ 1.00 (at Closing, 1993)     = 12,980 Th
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)          = 2.20 pounds
1 metric ton             = 1,000 kilograms
1 hectare (ha)           = 10,000 square meter
1 decare (da)            = 0.1 ha
1 meter (m)              = 1.09 yards
ABBREVIATIONS
APK          = Research, Planning and Coordination Council
AEARP II   = Second Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
DAI          = Department of Agricultural Inputs
DE           = Department of Extension
DEC          = Department of Evaluation and Coordination
DES          = Department of Economics and Statistics
DR          = Department of Research
DP           = Department of Publications
DTCC        = Department of Technical Cooperation and Coordination
DVC         = Department of Village Construction
ESG         = Extension Support Group
FTE          = Farmers' Training and Extension
GDAA         = General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs
GDAR        = General Directorate of Agricultural Research
GDOF        = General Directorate of Forestry
GDOS        = General Directorate of Organization and Support Services
GDPA         = General Directorate of Personnel Affairs
GDPI         = General Directorate of Project and Implementation
GDPP        = General Directorate of Protection and Control
GDRS        = General Directorate of Rural Service
MAFRA        = Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural Affairs
MARA        = Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
M&E          = Monitoring and Evaluation
MOPWR        = Ministry of Public Works and Resettlement
OED         =Operations Evaluation Department
PAU         =Project Administration Unit
PDA          = Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
SAR         = Southeastern Anatolia Region
SDC          = Swiss Development Cooperation
SMS         = Subject Matter Specialist
TZ           = Field Extension Service of GDAA
T&V          = Training and Visit System
TZDK         = Agricultural Supply Office
VGT         = Village Group Technician
VGTC         = Village Group Training Center
WTR          = Western Transitional Region
YAYCEP    = Agricultural TV School
ZB           = Agricultural Bank
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Turkey     = January 1 to December 31
World Bank               = July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                         October 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Turkey -
Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (Ln. 2405-TU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Turkey Agricultural Extension and
Applied Research Project (Ln. 2405-TU) prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office.
Part II was provided by the Borrower, and, inter alia, expresses satisfaction with the Bank's
cooperation during project implementation.
The project attempted to enhance the adoption of new technology by expanding the
T&V extension system (previously used in a number of Bank-supported development projects) to
cover about 40 percent of Turkey's cultivated area and farming population, as well as by testing and
developing various forms of mass media; applied research was also to be supported at six major
institutes in the project area. The project provided, albeit with major delays, useful equipment for
project agencies, enhanced transport facilities (eventually 64 percent of target), external training of
staff, a reduced amount (29 percent) of civil works and some improvement in the very poor linkage
between research and extension. However, the project had a number of serious implementation
problems, including major institutional changes at the beginning of the project which led to
responsibility and coordination issues which were not satisfactorily resolved; administrative problems
and severe budgetary constraints severely delayed awarding of civil works contracts (with no civil
works being undertaken at the research facilities); and in-service training was deficient for both the
technical specialists and village technicians. Most surveyed farmers (84 percent) indicated increases
in wheat yield over the previous ten years, while increases in other important crops were much rarer.
No significant differences, however, were observed in the rate of change in wheat yields nor in the
reduction in fallow area (the two most important agricultural changes in the 1980s in Turkey)
between project and non-project provinces. The report concludes that, considering the diverse
agriculture and rapidly changing demographics in the project area, it was unwise to impose such a
uniform extension methodology.
Despite the reported problems, the Region considers that there were sufficient benefits
to rate the project as marginally satisfactory with modest institutional development impact and
uncertain sustainability. The PCR is satisfactory in supplying useful information and analysis, and is
based on extensive field survey; however, its presentation could have been improved, the
implementation and outcome of the mass media component should have been further elaborated, and
at least the evidence for the critical project/non-project area responses attached as an annex.
An audit is planned, possibly in conjunction with the Extension and Research Project
II, at which time the outcome rating will be reevaluated.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
(Loan 2405-TU)
Table or Contents
Page
No.
Preface . .....................................................i
Evaluation Summary .                            .............................................i
Part I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK PERSPECTIVE  ................                                                                                        1
1.    Project Identity  ...........................................                                                                               1
2.    Background             ............................................                                                                         1
Sector Development Objectives and  Strategy   ......................                                                                  1
3.    Project Objectives and  Description  ...............................                                                                        2
Project Objectives   ......................................                                                                          2
Project Description  ......................................                                                                          3
4.   Project Design  and  Organization   ................................                                                                          3
Design    .............................................                                                                              3
Organization ..........................................                                                                              4
5.    Project Implementation  ......................................                                                                              4
General .............................................                                                                                4
Agricultural Extension    ...................................                                                                        4
Applied  Research  .......................................                                                                           7
Monitoring  and  Evaluation   .................................                                                                      8
Training    ............................................                                                                             8
6.    Project Results and  Impact   ...................................                                                                          10
Achievements in Production   ................................                                                                       10
Improved  Research-Extension  Linkage    .........................                                                                  10
Improved  in  Extension  Service    ..............................                                                                  10
Institutional Support  .....................................                                                                        10
7.    Project Sustainability   .......................................                                                                           11
8.    Bank  Performance  .........................................                                                                               12
9.    IFAD   Performance    ........................................                                                                             12
10.  Borrower Performance   ......................................                                                                               13
11.  Project Relationships   .......................................                                                                             13
12.  Consulting  Services  ........................................                                                                              13
13.  Project Documentation  and  Data   ................................                                                                         13
14.  Lessons Learned  ..........................................                                                                                 14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                                                  ..........                  15
1. Introduction .............................................                                                                                                15
2.    Performance  of the  World  Bank    ................                                        ..                 ...............                          15
3.  Performance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs ..............                                                                              16
4.    Lessons Learned   ..........................................                                                                                            19
Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...............................                                                                                                  20
Tables
1      Related  Bank  Loans  ........................................                                                                                        20
2      Project Timetable    .........................................                                                                                        21
3    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursement ...................                                                                                   22
4      Project Implementation   ......................................                                                                                       23
5      Project Costs   ............................................                                                                                          24
6      Project Financing    .........................................                                                                                        25
7      Project Results   ...........................................                                                                                         26
8      Status of Convenants   .......................................                                                                                        27
9      Staff Inputs   .............................................                                                                                          29
10    Staff Input and  Mission  Data   ..................................                                                                                    30



PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Extension and Applied
Research Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2405-TU, in the amount of US$ 72 million
(equivalent), was approved on April 17, 1984. The project was co-financed by IFAD Loan 143-
TU in the amount of US$ 10 million, which was approved on May 16, 1984.
The last disbursement from the IBRD Loan was on April 25, 1994, nearly four years
behind the original schedule. US$ 61.9 million was disbursed and US$ 10.2 million of the IBRD
Loan was canceled. The IFAD Loan disbursed US$ 6.6 million and the closing date was
extended to June 30, 1994.
This PCR was prepared jointly by the Agriculture and Environment Division, Country
Department I, Europe and Central Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III)
and the Borrower (Part II).
This PCR was initiated in April 1993 and is based, inter alia, on extensive field work and
analysis by the senior author, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision
reports; correspondence among the Bank, IFAD, and the Borrower; internal Bank Memoranda;
and information gathered by the Resident Mission.
The field work, carried out in 1993, covers 18 provinces, with questionnaire responses
from 330 field-level extension staff and 130 subject matter specialists, 26 research scientists and
288 farmers. Results are summarized in nine background papers available in the Bank's regional
files, viz., Project Implementation; Village Group Technician Survey; Subject Matter Specialist
Survey; Researcher Survey; Farm Survey; Impact Evaluating Study; Management,
Reorganization and Implementation; Project Implementation in Southeastern Anatolia; and
Changes in Wheat Yields and Area Under Major Summer Crops.






iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The main objective of the project was to enhance the adoption of new agricultural
technology at the farm level. This in turn was to raise farm incomes and generally increase the
growth of agricultural GDP. Project objectives would be realized by strengthening the General
Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA), of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Affairs, realigning research to ensure more appropriate technology, enhancing communication
media support for extension, provision of training facilities, establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system, and the provision of consultant support.
Implementation
Ministry commitment to project objectives and design was uneven and varied throughout
the life of the project. A reorganization of the Ministry in 1984/85, three months after project
effectiveness, essentially delayed most implementation activities for two years. Perhaps more
important was that the reorganization scattered implementation units to several General
Directorates, with the Department of Extension separated from the main implementing agency.
A subsequent Ministry reorganization in 1991 did not correct this.
Timely and sufficient provision of counterpart funds was always a problem - even when
the Bank increased disbursement percentages to 80% in 1991-93. Budget restrictions further
aggravated implementation delays, particularly with respect to procurement and civil works.
Only 29% of the originally-planned buildings were constructed. Implementation of the training
component was also problematic -- in part due to delays in implementing the training
arrangements and partly because of the lengthy procedures for candidate selection/processing.
Results
Of the farmers surveyed for the PCR, 75% attributed yield increases to new genetic
material, 70% to better use of fertilizer, and 52% to better use of chemicals. For these same
farmers, after "friends and relatives", the local extension worker was the most frequently-
mentioned (sixty percent) source of new agricultural information. Sixty-six percent of these
farmers also reported that they felt extension services had improved in the project area.
Eighty-four percent of the surveyed farmers reported increases in wheat yields over the
last ten years; considerably fewer for barley, sugar beet, cotton, and milk (17%, 7%, 6%, and
6%, respectively). The area under horticultural crops, particularly in Balikesir, Bursa, and
Manisa, increased sharply. There appears to be at least a casual association between increases
in production and extension effort. However, given the number of influences that impact on
farmer land use and enterprize options, such as prices, improvements in transportation, better
varieties, access to fertilizer, etc., the degree of causality can not be determined with precision.
OED, in a recent review of extension services, states that extension's most important



iv
contribution is in speeding up the rate of change. From that perspective, considering the rate
of change in wheat yields and the rate in the reduction of fallow area (the two most important
agricultural changes in Turkey in the 1980s), no significant difference was observed in the rate
of increase in wheat yields or in the rate of fallow reduction between provinces covered by the
project and non-project provinces, (the latter under the Agricultural Extension II project).
Sustainability
With the demographic changes going on in rural areas and the budgetary limitations that
continue to face the Government, the sustainability of the project as designed, i.e., the
concentration on villages and use of large numbers of front-line staff, will be difficult.
Authorities have been unable to ensure that professionals who received training under the project
remain in the project area. There already has been a significant dissipation of trained
professionals, in part through uncoordinated reassignments.  With respect to agricultural
research, the biggest sustainability problem relates to the aging and retirement of scientists and
the nearly decade-old Ministry moratorium on new recruitment.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Given the variations in location, need for timeliness in agricultural operations, and
markets, as well as the heterogeneity of agriculture and farm people, blanket prescriptions for
a centralized extension service can not be expected to work very well. For services such as
extension, accountability and responsibility linkages between users and providers of the service
must be in place. Tight management and supervision systems of government staff, using
government norms, is not enough to ensure relevant and responsive service. Had the
implementing agencies been more involved in the preparation of the project, there more likely
would have been a greater degree of "ground truth" with respect to what was necessary and
sustainable under Turkish conditions.  Besides developing an enhanced sense of project
ownership, this also would have developed an early familiarization, understanding, and
commitment to the project objectives by the staff of the implementing agencies.
Because the project required considerable, complex inter- and intra-institutional
coordination, a strong coordinating body should have been established as a precondition to the
project. More attention should have been given to ensuring correct phasing of activities and to
having a trained staff in place with responsibility and authority. In that context, at preparation
the Bank estimated that above-average supervision coefficients would be needed. However, no
additional supervision resources were made available. Indeed, in four of the project years actual
supervision coefficients were below average. In addition, of the fifteen supervision missions,
only six had an extension specialist as a member of the mission. It seems clear that higher than
average levels of supervision are required for this type of project under these kind of
circumstances. It is also clear that supervision missions need to be staffed consistently with
appropriate professional capabilities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
(LOAN 2405-TU)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identitv
Project Name:     Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
IBRD Loan No.:   2405-TU
IFAD Loan No.:   143-TU
RVP Unit:         EC 1
Country:          Turkey
Sector:           Agriculture
Sub-sector:       Extension/Applied Research
2.    Background
2.01. In June 1980 the Government requested Bank assistance to finance a nationwid extension
improvement project. The Bank instead suggested a phased approach based on agro-ecological
zones. The Government accepted this recommendation in 1982 and initiated project preparation
in GDAA, a directorate of MAFRA. This was followed by project preparation assistance from
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) in August/September of 1982. Subsequently,
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) expressed interest in co-financing
the project. Following a formal Bank preparation mission in March/April 1983, and a pre-
appraisal mission in May/June 1983, the project was appraised by the Bank in March 1984, and
became effective on September 5, 1984. In 1992, SDC participated with IFAD in co-financing
the project and, based on the understanding between SDC and IFAD, a grant of US$6 million
was made available to the Borrower.
Sector Development Objectives and Strategv
2.02. While the relative importance of the agriculture sector in Turkey's economy is declining,
the sector generated about 16% of total GDP and averaged about 21% of export earnings in
recent years (1985-88). It continues to generate substantial employment, meet most domestic
food requirements, supply industrial raw materials, and generate considerable foreign exchange.
Through the 1970s, Turkey's agricultural policies were inward-looking, stressing food self-
sufficiency through subsidized inputs and producer prices. Agricultural growth was relatively
rapid in the early 1970s, averaging 4.7% annually from 1972-75. Sectoral growth rates slowed
to 1.5% per year in the late 1970s, largely due to a sharp reduction in incentives, ineffective
investment policies, weak technical services, and inadequate marketing and credit systems.



2
Starting in 1980, with Bank assistance, the Government began strengthening agricultural support
services. Input trade and distribution were liberalized, regulatory restrictions were reduced, and
the private sector played an increasing role in marketing and processing.  Nevertheless,
throughout the 1980s there was a continuing policy bias against the sector as compared to
industry.
2.03. One of the main agricultural sector development interventions of the Government has
been support for the modernization of production techniques to raise productivity, yield and
farmer income. Agricultural lending by the Bank to the Government aimed to increase
production, exports and rural employment, and to support reforms necessary to the sector.
Therefore, extension components were included in some early Bank-assisted infrastructure and
farm development projects in Turkey.
2.04. Under Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project the T&V system of extension first was
introduced prior to its inclusion in Bank-supported projects in other countries. It failed to win
the clear support of Government; the T&V activities were not implemented by the regular
extension system.
2.05. In the early 1980s, GDAA had the largest field staff of any state agency providing
extension services to farmers. Responsibilities covered virtually every aspect of crop and
livestock agriculture. GDAA's field organization was represented in all provinces and counties,
and on a pilot basis in some villages. However, most of the staff were also extensively involved
in administrative, regulatory and record-keeping duties besides extension. GDAA's agricultural
research institutes were involved with occasional cooperation on specific projects.  Such
activities were not regularly programmed, and communication between research workers and
extension agents remained largely dependent on individual initiative. This situation limited the
usefulness of some of the investigations undertaken by the research institutions; extension
workers were often unaware of existing research results. Inadequacy of the technical and
specialist expertise available to support the extension work of the county staff, limited
availability of transportation, infrequent use of audio-visual materials and mass media, and
insufficient M&E also limited the effectiveness of GDAA's extension operations.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.01. The project's main objectives were to stimulate use of improved crop and livestock
production methods to augment the production of basic food and export crops, raise farm
incomes, and boost agricultural GDP. This would be accomplished through investments to:
a)    strengthen GDAA extension service
b)    realign research to make available appropriate technology for extension
c)    provide communication media support for extension
d)    provide training facilities for upgrading the technical competence of research and



3
extension personnel
e)    provide facilities for monitoring and evaluating extension
f)    provide consultant support in selected fields.
Project Description
3.02. The project's objectives were to be achieved through four components over a six-year
period:
a)    Agricultural Extension: Employing additional village-level extension agents to
provide technical advice to farmers; establishing county- and province-based
SMSs to provide training to extension agents; training SMSs in monthly
workshops; assignment of staff exclusively to administrative matters in provincial
extension offices; create an information center to establish a library, produce
audio-visual aids and disseminate information through mass communication.
b)    Applied Research: Strengthening the capacity of six research institutes serving
the project area to carry out research; monthly training workshops for SMSs;
constructing facilities at the research institutes and housing and facilities for
training of extension agents; equipping the research institutes; coordination of
research work; definition of research priorities; and dissemination of technical
information.
c)    Monitoring and Evaluation: Establishing a management information service
responsible for internal monitoring and evaluation; strengthening of the external
M&E unit within GDAA.
d)    Training: In-service training; overseas training of selected central and provincial
staff involved in extension, M&E, and research activities.
3.03. Total project costs were estimated at US$ 205.7 million (equivalent). The World Bank
and IFAD would contribute about 40% of total requirements by providing, respectively, US$
72.2 million and US$ 10 million in loans. The remaining US$ 123.7 million equivalent (or 60%
of total costs) was to be met locally by the Government. In August 1992, under the
Memorandum of Understanding with the Government of Switzerland, represented by SDC and
IFAD, SDC made arrangements for the partial co-financing of Part A (Agricultural Extension)
of the Project and provided a grant of US$ 6 million.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01. Design. The project was to address major problems facing agricultural extension, such
as insufficient technical and specialist expertise, lack of systematic linkages with research, heavy
bureaucratic workloads of extension staff, fragmented research and a lack of coherent research
priorities.



4
4.02. Project design reflected the socio-economic realities in Turkey during the late 1970s/early
1980s and heavy reliance on state intervention. It concentrated on state-financed extension,
detracting attention from altemative, possibly more cost-efficient approaches. Signals of rapid
demographic, market, economic, and structural developments that began to emerge in rural
Turkey in the early 1980s were not foreseen sufficiently.
4.03. The design had high recurrent cost implications. At the time of project approval, the
Government's budgetary position was sound. Inflation subsequently became a major issue, and
the Government was increasingly hard-pressed to provide planned-for budgetary support.
Organization
4.04. The project had a complex organizational arrangement and covered a large, diverse
geographical area. Overall responsibility for implementation was given to GDAA, under which
the bulk of extension services and research institutes already operated. In the original design,
GDAA would implement the project through its six departments (Extension, Research, Training,
Technical Cooperation and Coordination, Economics and Statistics, Externally Financed
Projects). However, the Ministry went through a major reorganization in 1984/85 which
hindered project organization.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01. General: MAFRA's reorganization prevented expeditious start-up of project components.
Much delay was caused by the wait for by-laws defining responsibilities of the new General
Directorates and for appointments of the senior administrators at the central, regional, and
provincial levels. It took almost two years for the project to become operational. Subsequently,
implementation suffered from: i) lack of overall technical authority for project implementation;
ii) lack of clear task boundaries among related agencies; iii) low levels of "ownership"
(particularly at managerial levels); iv) staff turnover at central and field levels, v) lack of direct
control by the General and Provincial Directorates over their staff; vi) limited counterpart funds
due to shortfalls in state budget allocations; and vii) lack of control of the General and Provincial
Directorates over their yearly budgets.
5.02. The two-year lag in project start-up put the project time-table behind, a delay which was
not subsequently made up. Severe procurement delays, in part stemming from limited
counterpart funds and the Government's "saving instructions," also curtailed implementation.
Although the project was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1990, it was
extended four times: first to June 30, 1991, then to June 30, 1992, then to June 30, 1993, and
finally to October 31, 1993. The last disbursement from the loan was on April 25, 1994.
5.03. Agricultural Extension: Although in April 1985 (seven months after effectiveness date)
all 67 new PDAs were appointed and started to organize staff and determine responsibilities, the
new organization was not fully operative until late 1986.



5
5.04. After the reorganization, control of extension was diffused among sixteen (later eighteen)
PDAs and three General Directorates in Ankara (with the latter reduced to largely advisory and
monitoring roles). Two General Directorates, GDAPD and GDOS, were considered the major
agencies for project implementation. GDPD had responsibility for implementation, but found
it difficult to get higher management to solve the implementation problems encountered. It also
lacked authority over other general directorates or PDAs. GDOS, to which DE was transferred,
played only a limited and sometimes unclear role in implementation, although it was to have
technical control of the project. Lack of clearly defined task boundaries between GDPD and
GDOS resulted in vague ownership over much of the project life.
5.05. Central review and follow-up to correct field-level deficiencies was not always effective.
A GDPD-based monitoring group to visit provinces and assess implementation was not activated,
mainly due to budgetary problems. In 1990 the Bank recommended establishing a full-time ESG
in GDOS. It was established, functioned poorly due to limited commitment from GDOS, and
abolished in 1993. GDPD appointed a team of four to coordinate project activities at the central
level, but only in the last year of the project. Because each Provincial Director is responsible
directly to the Minister of MARA through the Undersecretary and monitoring bodies remained
ineffective, supervision and support to the field level activities reamined weak throughout the
life of the project.
5.06. Project appraisal called, on average, for nine VGTs to live in a central village within
each area of operation. Although criteria for site selection of the VGT Centers were defined
clearly, they sometimes were circumvented by local interests. VGTC construction started with
MOPWR and was shifted to GDRS in mid-1985 due to coordination and quality control
problems. It was concluded originally that conventional housing would have a longer life and
lower maintenance cost than prefabricated housing. Later, based on GDPD's 1991 proposal,
two-story prefabricated houses were built. Severe delays affected the schedule of every type of
construction. Major reasons for construction delays were: i) shortage of funds due to high
inflation; ii) lengthy delays in MAFRA for the authorization to start; iii) time-consuming tender
preparations caused by limited experience in Bank procedures; iv) limited capacity of provincial
GDRS staff to tender, supervise, and inspect construction; and v) limited capacity of the small
contracting firms employed to manage construction.
5.07. The civil works component suffered from lack of adequate quality control. The Staff
Appraisal Report envisaged construction contracts packaged by county, but because of the
scattered nature of specific construction jobs, they were contracted as single units. This resulted
in awards to small, inexperienced and underfinanced contractors which made supervision
difficult. Through the project life, quality of construction was a problem due to the limited
capacity of Provincial MOPWR and GDRS staff and to the lack of a full time PAU
Architect/Engineer to supervise construction.
5.08. Overall only 29% of the anticipated buildings units were constructed under the project.



6
5.09. During the project VGTs were assigned to village centers for undefined periods. With
this uncertainty, some VGTs sought ways to go back to towns as soon as they could. In some
areas there was frequent turnover. Unsuccessful VGTs who stayed in the villages reflected their
unhappiness in poor performance. If MARA had clearly defined lengths of stays in villages
(e.g., four years), the problems of vacant VGTCs and turnover might have been lessened.
5.10. Delay in procurement of transport equipment was a major problem. Transportation is
more crucial for key lower level staff, i.e., VGTs, because of their need for direct contact with
farmers. VGTs without motorcycles visited farmers by using public transport, hitching rides,
or walking, which wasted time and affected morale. The VGT survey indicated that, to visit
farmers' fields/orchards/barns in central villages, 54% of VGTs used motorcycles, 36% drove
their private cars, 14% used farmers' vehicles, and 48% walked. Thirty-six percent of the
VGTs reported using public transportation to other villages in their areas. Project motorcycles
were purchased early in 1991, but by 1993, 575 of them were still not available due to import
duties not budgeted by MARA.
5.11. The level of expertise of the SMSs was another problem. Most of the VGTs (71%)
received in-service training. The systematic technical training of the VGTs by SMSs was to
have been an important feature of the project. Fortnightly training organized by County Group
SMSs began in the initial years of the project. In the absence of certain specialists, the County
Groups were backed up by provincial SMSs. Although SMSs were important supports to the
VGTs, shortage of qualified SMSs remained a problem. Assignment to an SMS position
provided neither prestige nor financial advantage for PDA staff. In the circumstances, being an
SMS was not attractive for the underemployed staff.
5.12. Lack of academic specialization and technical background also limited the assignments.
The SMS survey indicated that the limited available pool of those holding bachelors' degrees did
not match the current assignment area for 41 % of surveyed SMSs. The arrangement of
Provincial and County Group SMS teams also was problematic. The double layer of SMS teams
had blurred the line of command between the FTE Director and the County Group SMS team.
5.13. Supervision at all levels in the system was limited, in part due to a shortage of vehicles
until the end of 1989. Major reasons for vehicle procurement delays were: i) the Government's
"saving instructions" for state procurement; ii) lack of experienced staff; iii) delays in decision-
making at MARA. Even after provision of the vehicles supervision remained insufficient due
to limits on vehicle use and operational budget allocations. At the provincial level, vehicles
usually were allocated by the Section of Administrative and Financial Affairs based on demand
coming from six technical sections, not just extension. The FTE section had to compete with
other PDA staff for project vehicles and they did not obtain them as frequently as they deemed
necessary. The same problem existed at the county level.
5.14. Performance in extension management varied greatly among provinces. Differences were
in commitment to the project, management ability, and initiative shown by the PDA and FTE.
Provincial variation also stemmed from the frequent high degree of turnover, particularly at



7
managerial levels. Among sixteen project provinces, only four had the same PDA through all
nine years -- in others, changes occurred up to four times. Because T&V is a management
system, establishing a high-quality, viable extension system depends heavily on management by
an effective PDA. After the 1984/85 reorganization, neither GDPD nor GDOS had control over
the field staff -- only rarely were poorly-performing PDA Directors replaced.
5.15. The new extension modalities were considered part of a limited, Bank-supported project,
not part of a general extension system. Both IBRD and MARA concentrated more on the
hardware side of the project than the software side; communication aspects were left in the
background. At the provincial level T&V was looked upon as a special project that provided
inputs (vehicles, buildings, training, etc.) for the PDA, not a management system or an
educational activity. Although orientation courses were conducted by MARA for central and
provincial staff, the desired level of understanding and ownership of the new concepts was not
fully achieved.
5.16. The planned Central SMS team that would approach extension based on regional land-use
systems was not established; neither was a technical strategy for different agro-ecological zones.
PDAs did not know well enough what technical factors most limited productivity gains for
different categories of farmers, viz., which farmers needed assistance most. Lacking problem
analyses, county and provincial staff were unable to set precise and explicit objectives. There
was also little farmer participation in problem analyses, increasing the risk that advice given to
farmers would be irrelevant.
5.17. DP, supported with equipment, technical assistance and staff training, produced good
quality audio-visual and mass media aids for the project in its earlier years. Its focus was
diverted from the project later and dialog with project implementation agencies got weaker.
Since mid-1992 DP has been busy with YAYCEP, a cost-effective effort, but not directly related
to the project.
5.18. Applied Research: The applied research activities were limited by institutional changes
and procurement delays. The 1984/85 ministerial reorganization fragmented the research,
disrupted ongoing research programs and discouraged researchers. The 1991 reorganization did
not adequately correct this situation. However, the research institutes started monthly training
programs for SMSs shortly after project effectiveness, as envisaged during appraisal. Through
the life of the project these were conducted with varying degrees of success.
5.19. The research component also suffered from excessive procurement delays in civil works.
None of the Loan funds for research civil works (research complex in Haymana/Ankara for the
Field Crops Research Center, additional research facilities, dormitories and housing) were
utilized. Since the available land for construction was limited by unexpected land allocation
problems in Haymana, the plan was modified to enable further development of the Eskisehir
Transitional Zone Research Institute. The tender process for this was started in 1988 but only
completed in 1993. During that period, the decision to initiate construction was delayed several
times due to changes at the ministerial level. One tender was cancelled even though the bid



8
evaluation was complete. The third tender was approved, but by the end of the project
completion date no disbursement had been made.
5.20. Procurement of research equipment was seriously delayed. Audio-visual equipment was
purchased earlier than other goods, with a June 1988 contract award date, July 1990 customs
clearance date, and November 1990 distribution. Contracts for field equipment were awarded
in March 1992, cleared customs in September and were distributed in October 1992, eight
months before project completion. The laboratory equipment tender began processing late in
1989 and continued until 1993. Though bid evaluation was completed at the end of January
1993, contracts were signed 18 months later. When the contract was approved, time left for
payments was limited, so the Bank extended the Loan Closing date for three months. The
contracts were signed and the equipment shipped, but at the date of PCR preparation the
equipment has not been made available to the research institutes.
5.21. The project envisaged a team of four extension coordinators to be stationed permanently
in research institutes and to act as field trial coordinators and links with the extension effort. Due
to an unclear chain of command, this arrangement was sustained only at Eskisehir.
5.22. Notwithstanding several difficulties, the research institutes produced a number of valuable
recommendations. Multi-disciplinary research yielded, e.g., more sustainable rotation systems,
soil tillage techniques, environment-friendly pesticide and fertilizer applications, and more
efficient uses of water. On the other hand, research in livestock remained largely unproductive.
This limited message formulation in extension. Survey data indicated that fewer extension
efforts were focused on livestock production (11.6%) than on crop production (77.5%).
5.23. Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring focused largely on inputs and outputs and paid
insufficient attention to the project's impact and achievement of long-term objectives. An
internal monitoring and evaluation system was established in 1986. Reporting forms for VGT,
county and provincial staff were designed, and training of M&E staff at the provincial level took
place. Data on extension went regularly from the VGTs through the system to the central level,
where quarterly reports on problems and progress were produced. However, the data were less
than fully used for management purposes.
5.24. Since M&E traditionally was seen as an instrument of control, there was lack of clarity
at the provincial level as to the responsibilities divided between the Sections of Projects/Statistics
and Farmer Training and Extension. M&E was given to Projects/Statistics on the assumption that
another unit would be biased. This approach actually lowered the quality of the data provided
and prevented FTE from assessing its own activity.
5.25. Training: The project provided initial orientation programs for staff at all levels.
Starting in 1984, eight different orientation seminars were organized for various implementation
levels and counterpart agencies. There appears to have been too little emphasis on the point that
the project was a comprehensive management system.  Training also was needed in
communication skills and management to improve communication between central level and
provinces. This was not done.



9
5.26. Training provisions also included in-service and refresher courses and fortnightly training
sessions for VGTs (and monthly for SMSs). In the project provinces, fortnightly training for
VGTs became routine, though 61 % of VGTs surveyed rated its quality as insufficient.
5.27. Training of staff in "training and extension techniques" were organized by GDOS
(assisted by consultants) for SMSs, and by trained SMSs for VGTs in the provinces, in initial
years of the project (1987-88). Given the turnover, these were not enough either to upgrade
staff skills of the staff or to maintain the achieved level.
5.28. Many SMSs performed below expectations because of insufficient training in technical
requirements and unfamiliarity with farming and cropping systems of their posted area. During
the project years (except for a few attempts) no agency was given clear responsibility to upgrade
SMSs' technical knowledge beyond the monthly workshops.
5.29. Training provisions included financing for an extensive program of overseas training: 174
MSc and 510 short-term, including study tours and short-term courses. The MSc program was
implemented from 1986-92 and 91 staff members received degrees from foreign universities.
This program required foreign language proficiency possessed by few staff members, a factor
which delayed its start. GDPD organized language courses in various regions. After reaching
the required TOEFL score the majority of the candidates started their overseas training in 1987
and 1990 (48% and 31%, respectively). Areas of training were: crop breeding (27%),
agricultural extension (26%), crop agronomy (15%), plant protection (13%), agricultural
economics (11 %), information/media (2 %), livestock production (2 %), food technology (2 %),
apiculture (1%), and mechanization (1%). The majority received training in the U.K. (59%)
or U.S.A. (40%). Average length of training varied from 7 to 32 months -- 83% of trainees
spent 15-27 months in their respective universities.
5.30. Short-term courses started in 1987. During the project 252 person-months were spent
by 380 staff members in 26 subjects. Major areas were crop breeding (16%), monitoring and
evaluation (15%), crop agronomy (12%), plant protection (8%), and horticulture (6%). No
courses were made available in communication or management skills.
5.31. Study tours involved 155 person-months for 204 staff, starting in 1987. The majority of
tours was organized in 1990-91, six years after project effectiveness; 77% of participants went
abroad. Nine percent of the participants were PDA Directors or Deputy Directors, 5% were
FTE Directors, 6% were VGTs, and 80% were SMSs. The tours were for ten days (76%) or
two weeks (24%). The main recipient countries were the Netherlands (32%), the U.K. (23%),
France (9%), and Italy (9%).
5.32. Overseas training programs suffered from lengthy delays -- in part due to slowness of
putting training arrangements into place. Lengthy procedures in candidate selection and
processing in MARA added further delay, as did frequent changes in procedures and staff
turnover at decision-making levels. These programs attracted some MARA staff with no
relationship to the project.



10
5.33. The training activities were a significant strength of the project and were effective in
imparting knowledge. But problems were encountered in retaining trained staff through the
project. Overseas training provided valuable opportunities for staff, but subsequently they often
moved to positions outside the project. The magnitude of the problem was not quantified
although clearly recognized as a substantial issue.
6.    Project Results and Impact
6.01. Achievements in Production: The majority (84%) of the farmers surveyed for the PCR
reported yield increases in the last decade. Yield gains most frequently reported were in wheat
(38%), barley (17.1%), sugar beet (7.2%), cotton (6.3%), and milk (5.9%). Seventy-five
percent attributed yield increases to new genetic material (high-yield crop varieties developed
by research institutes and imported pure or cross bred cattle). Seventy percent attributed
increases to improved fertilizer application, 52% to improved chemical application, 24% to new
equipment, and 18% to various agronomic techniques (improved soil tillage, seeding methods,
and irrigation). A number of these research innovations were attributable in part to project
activities. There is also some suggestion, although the underlying statistics raise some questions,
that the number of beneficiaries covered under the project may have been greater than
anticipated in the SAR.
6.02. ImDroved Research-Extension Linkage: The project regularized linkages between: i)
researchers and SMSs; and ii) SMSs and VGTs. Extension and research staff indicated that
articulation between research and extension staff increased, but not sufficiently. Only 15% of
SMSs rated the previous extension-research linkage "good." Most believed extension-research
linkage improved with the project; the ratings were 52% "good," 40% "fair," and 8% "poor."
Existing linkage also was evaluated: 35% of researchers found it strengthened, and 59% found
it somewhat strengthened, while 6% indicated no difference.
6.03. Improvement in Extension Service: In the farm survey, 66% of the farmers reported
that extension services available to them had improved in the last decade. As sources of technical
information useful in their operations, 62% reported friends/relatives, 60% the extension
worker, 9.7% TV, and 5.2% other agencies (mostly private companies). The majority (85%)
reported that they were in contact with their extension worker.
6.04. Institutional Support: The project strengthened PDAs, although with substantial delays,
by provision of VGTCs, PDA and county offices, vehicles, motorcycles, audio-visual and field
equipment, and improvement of technical and, to a lesser extent, language skills through
training. The project also strengthened research institutes, through improvement of research and
language skills and long- and short-term training. It contributed to DP through provision of
printing, photography, film and video units, and improvement of skills through training. The
project strengthened GDPD through the established M&E unit and computer network, although
the intended use of the available information was not always made clear.



11
6.05. Of planned totals, research institutes received 100% of field equipment, 100% of
laboratory equipment, 3.5% of audio-visual equipment, and 4% of vehicles (28% of large
trucks). PDAs received 91% of audio-visual equipment and 68% of vehicles (61% of large
trucks). The Publication Department received 5 % of the audio-visual equipment. The central
ministry got .4 % of the audio-visual equipment and 1 % of the vehicles. The rest of the vehicles
and trucks were allocated to other research institutes and production stations (14% of vehicles
were sent to PDAs outside the project area).
6.06. Beneficiaries of the training program were distributed as follows: research institutes
received 63% of the MSc training opportunities, 68% of the short-term course graduates, and
3% of the study tours; PDAs received 21% of the MSc awards, 14% of the short-term
graduates, and 73% of the study tours; the central ministry received 16% of the MSc awards,
11 % of short-term graduates, and 24 % of the study tours; the Publication Department received
2% of the short-term graduates and production stations 5 % of the short-term graduates.
6.07. Actual civil works construction fell substantially short of appraisal targets.  No
construction was carried out for the research institutes or Publication Department. For PDAs,
the achievements as percent of planned were 67% for Provincial Directorate offices, 45 % for
County Offices, 18% for County staff apartments, and 42% of the VGTCs.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.01. The project provided office and housing facilities and transportation at the village level.
This was envisaged for four diverse agro-ecological regions. With growing urbanization and
improved transportation, the question arises as to the appropriateness of constructing some of
the training facilities at village level. Where extension professionals and training facilities should
actually be located should be reviewed.
7.02. Offices and housing constructed were not of expected quality. Even before the end of
the project, maintenance expenditure was a growing demand on limited funds, adding to the
issue of financial sustainability.
7.03. The project intended to establish a relatively costly, labor-intensive extension method,
requiring adequate operational funds at all levels. One key to sustainability will be the
continuity of sufficient budget allocations from the Government. Given financial constraints and
competing demands on its budget, the Government is likely to find it difficult to carry this
financial burden for all regions or all categories of farmer. To ease the financial burden on
Government, efforts should be made to seek cost-efficient alternative approaches, as well as shift
some of the burden to farmer beneficiaries.
7.04. Problems were encountered in retaining trained staff through the project. These problems
are likely to continue as long as field-level support and staff motivation remain insufficient.
7.05. Research institute capabilities are declining due to aging of staff and lack of recruitment
for nearly a decade. As long as the MARA moratorium on new staff recruitment remains,
sustainability of applied research and MARA effectiveness of research-extension linkages are
in jeopardy.



12
8.    Bank Performance
8.01. The Bank's decision to complement the Government's commitment to increase
productivity and agricultural incomes through enhancement of extension and research capabilities
was appropriate. However, the Bank's recommendation of uniform design for the four agro-
ecological regions was wrong. Insufficient vision was exercised on the implications for the
project of the diverse agricultural and rapidly-changing demographic conditions. Insufficient
attention was given to the need to have demand-driven, beneficiary-accountable, extension
services in which users also assumed some responsibility for supporting extension.
8.02. The momentum the Bank displayed during preparation was not maintained through
implementation. It was envisaged that above-average supervision coefficients would be needed
due to the complexity and large geographical coverage of the project. In fact, no additional
supervision resources were made available and allocations were below average in 1986, 1987,
1988, and 1990. The "software side" of the project was not thoroughly supervised. Of fifteen
supervision missions, only six had an extension specialist and only one had a communication
specialist.
8.03. When the Government reorganized MARA, the Bank failed to adequately recognize the
need to accommodate the new organizational realities. One result was that significant
coordination problems hampered project implementation throughout the life of the project.
8.04. Through periodic supervision missions, the Bank was informed of shortcomings in project
implementation. Resolution of key problems, was left to the fulfillment of Government but
frequently inadequate action was taken on solutions suggested by the Bank or consultants.
Frequent changes in Task Managers within the Bank further aggravated this problem.
8.05. Two major findings of the Bank's mid-term review in 1987 were organizational
weaknesses in project implementation and construction delays. These problems remained when
project extensions were discussed in 1990, 1991, and 1993. In negotiations on project extension,
the Bank stressed construction delays, with too little attention paid to organizational weaknesses.
8.06. The Bank strongly supported the project during the Gulf Crisis by deciding (pursuant to
a policy designed to assist borrowers affected by the Crisis) in 1991 to increase temporarily its
share of funding of project costs. In 1992, on the request of the Turkish Treasury, the Bank
agreed to extend the increase in disbursement percentages through 1993.
9.    IFAD Performnance.
9.01. IFAD, which also administered the Swiss Grant, helped ensure the utilization of available
financing from IFAD and the Swiss Grant in an effective and timely manner. The contribution
of the Swiss Government through a grant toward local costs (originally to be met from Turkish
Government sources) helped meet critical financing needs for the project. The opening of a
Special Account for the Swiss Grant was delayed and reduced in effectiveness due to the
complex accounting system of the Turkish Government. Representatives from IFAD, which
helped finance project activities in Southeastern Anatolia, participated in only about a quarter
of the supervision missions.



13
10.   Borrower Performnance
10.01. In MARA, commitment to the objectives and design of the project was uneven through
the implementation period. Strong initial ownership of the project was diluted with ministerial
reorganization and different priorities of new decision-makers in MARA.
10.02. After the 1984/85 reorganization of MARA the implementing units were spread to several
general directorates. Separation of DE from the main implementing agency had a negative effect
on implementation. MARA did not adequately adapt the project to organizational changes to
ensure timely implementation. The 1991 reorganization did not correct the problem.
10.03. MARA did not respond fully to an issue that was raised by almost every mission for the
nine years of the project -- to provide adequate full-time staff for project management.
10.04. Counterpart budgetary funds were neither sufficient nor prompt enough for smooth and
timely implementation. Even when the Bank increased the disbursement percentages to 80% in
1991-93, the full complement of needed local resources was not provided.
10.05. MARA support of the VGTs, many of which faced serious logistical and technical
support issues, was frequently inadequate. Few incentives were provided for those who were
the "critical cutting edge" of the Government's extension effort in the villages.
11.   Project Relationships
11.01. The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was satisfactory, with both sides
working to seek solutions to implementation problems.
12.   Consulting Services
12.01. There were considerable delays in recruitment of consultants: 27% were recruited by the
end of 1985 and 73% in early or mid-1986. Further time was needed to visit the provinces and
familiarize themselves with field conditions. Some failed to do so at all and contributed very
little to the project. Others spent a good deal of productive time in the field situation. Although
they might have been employed better in a course-planning role and.in training of trainers, the
contribution of some consultants as trainers was invaluable, given the limited technical
background of some extension staff.
12.02. Reports prepared by the consultants were too often poorly utilized. Some were not
translated; some were not thoroughly circulated and used with full effect by MARA and too
often remained "on the shelf". The training contractor, because of slowness in planning and
implementing overseas training programs, contributed to lengthy delays in training activities.
13.   Project Documentation and Data
13.01. The original and amended Loan Agreements were understood well by all parties
concerned. The Staff Appraisal Report and the Project Implementation File were useful tools to
project management. The operational files of MARA were satisfactory for preparation of the



14
PCR. In spite of significant changes affecting the project and the responsibility diffused among
various units, the filing of the relevant information was adequate. The Audit Reports prepared
by the Borrower usually were delayed and sometimes lacked annexes or audit statements for the
Special Account. The Resident Mission did not routinely receive all project documentation and
was therefore handicapped in its oversight and supporting role.
14.   Lessons Learned
14.01. The project provided several important lessons:
i)    In designing projects, diversity of circumstances among beneficiaries must be
considered; blanket prescriptions do not work.
ii)   Implementing agencies must be involved more in project preparation. This will
provide for more realism and facilitate timely implementation.
iii)   For diversified time- and agro-ecologically-specific services such as extension,
strong and timely accountability and responsibility linkages to users must be in
place. Supervision related to "government norms" is not enough to ensure
relevant and responsive extension services to farmers.
iv)   Staff need to be thoroughly familiarized in advance with project objectives and
the proposed system and convinced of its advantages over the system in place.
v)    Correct phasing and synchronizing of project activities are essential to success.
vi)   When project implementation involves complementary input from several units,
a strong coordinating body must be established and maintained.
vii)   Coordinating committee members must be selected on the basis of the specific
contribution each can make, not simply as members of a concerned agency.
viii)  In complex projects the Bank's supervision coefficients have to be above-average.
ix)   A viable M&E system must provide timely, useful information and must be seen
as a tool to improve performance, rather than as a means of control.



15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Introduction:
1.01. The agricultural sector has a great responsibility in the country since the national
economy is based mainly on agriculture and agro-industry. In order to meet the food needs of
the population which increases average 2 % per year according to the last census, to provide the
necessary foreign currency for the importation of the raw material and the goods of the other
sectors need and to create employment possibility to the increasing manpower are expected from
agriculture. In order to be able to meet these expectations, it is necessary to utilize the existing
arable land that reached to the limit, in the most economic and efficient way.
1.02. It is essential to develop extension and research services to enhance agricultural
development, to strengthen research extension linkage as well as to increase the use of inputs
such as chemicals, seed and seedlings fertilizers, which are the basic elements of the agricultural
development to augment the contribution of the agricultural sector to the economy of the
country. In the previous years transfer of the new technologies to farmers could not be realized
at a desired level due to weak research-extension linkage.
1.03. For this reason, to transfer the technological saving of the research institutions to farmers
with the shortest way, First Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project has been
prepared as a knowledge flow system.
2.    Performance of the World Bank:
2.01. The value increase of US Dollar was unpredictable during project preparation and the
implementation. 1 US$ was equal to TL 270 in the project preparation period and it increased
up to TL 12980 in June, 1993 which was the closing date of the project. This increase of dollar
could not be estimated at any stage of the project.
2.02. During the project implementation, relations with the World Bank was the Ministry and
the Bank worked in close cooperation. The Bank missions visited the project areas together with
the ministry staff to supervise implementation twice a year and did their best to solve the
problems met until from the initiation of the project to the opening of the World Bank office in
Ankara.
2.03. With the opening of the Resident Mission, the relationship between the Bank and the
Ministry was more frequent and easier. This, provided a comfort in terms of communication
and reaching a mutual conclusion for application in a short time. The positive approach of the
Bank Missions during the supervision particularly in the last two years made useful contribution
to the project implementation.



16
2.04. Various equipment and vehicles were imported to meet the infrastructure needs of the
project. According to the Loan Agreement the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs would
pay tax, stamp and fees due to the importation. However, these payments reached to the
internal source level due to the increase in dollar, especially during the last years.
2.05. It was envisaged to form a "Central Project Management Unit" which would be
responsible for the implementation of the Bank Projects. However, when the administrative
body and the existing facilities of the Ministry are taken into account, it could not be possible
to establish such unit and appoint additional staff there.
2.06. To lay pre-conditions by the World Bank during implementation had a negative impact
on project implementation. For example, the construction of a given number of VGTC's in a
given period has been delayed.
3.    Performance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs:
3.01. With the initiation of the project implementation most of the services envisaged had been
realized during the project period.  Central Coordination Committee, Central Executive
Committee, Regional Coordination Committees have been established and continued their
activities and met regularly during the project time and the project institutions were directed
through these committees. All the procurement envisaged in the framework of the project had
bought. Most of the overseas training and the civil works were realized. (See Annex - I).
3.02. Nine international consultants were employed on various topics for a total 127 man/month
period. Printed material and the videos related to the project had been prepared and distributed
to the institutions. During the project period monitoring and evaluation activities have been
carried out and the problems met and the efficiency of the project have been followed in every
stage end for every component of the project.
3.03. Following the initiation of the project in late 1984, a major reorganization changed
central and provincial body of the Ministry in 1985. Since the project was designed for the
General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs, the reorganization caused difficulties in
implementation. As a result of reorganization, the Department of Extension was transferred to
a different General Directorate and the linkage with the project was weakened.
3.04. Although a strong cooperation and linkage were needed to implement the project, the
fragmentation caused by the reorganization made it very difficult. Problems arisen particularly
in the areas of personnel planning, budgeting, research and extension management.
3.05. Human resources were a crucial factor in the project. However, the needed personnel
could not be provided in terms of both quality and quantity as it was foreseen in the project.
Even if the regulation of the Ministry on appointment and transfer applies seriously, the
personnel need of the project can meet partially. However, the lack of personnel in the same
provinces reached a critical stage.



17
3.06. The personnel matters are handled by the General Directorate of Personnel (GDP). The
political interference in the assignment and transfer of provincial staff caused important problems
in the provinces. The General Directorate of Personnel does not ask the views of the central
units which are responsible for the implementation. In this respect the personnel planning could
not be realized according to the needs and the targets of the project.
3.07. The project aimed to give training to the project staff both at in-service and academic
level. Some of the trained staff have appointed to the places out of the project area.
3.08. Master degree program envisaged in the project had been delayed because the foreign
language level of the candidates could not meet the requirements of the universities abroad.
Most of the candidates started to take foreign language course from the beginning level and the
six months course was not enough to improve their foreign language level. They needed further
foreign language training. Especially, when the foreign language courses of the candidates
needed to take abroad, the evaluation of the period for master studies could not be realized
accordingly.
3.09. Another problem concerning training was the high ratio of the beneficiaries who were
not involved in the project activities.  This situation demoralized the project  staff.  In
connection with this, more problems emerged in the implementation of the project.
3.10. Foreign exchange use depends on the internal budget allocations. First, the funds needed
for the project activities period for master studies could not be realized accordingly.
3. 11. Another problem concerning training was the high ratio of the beneficiaries who were
not involved in the project activities. This situation demoralized the project staff. In connection
with this, more problems emerged in the implementation of the project.
3.12. Foreign exchange use depends on the internal budget allocations. First, the funds needed
for the project activities are provided from the internal budget than the same amount is requested
from the corresponding categories of the Loan. Each year, during the preparation of the annual
budget the allocations used to be escalated based on the currency changes. However, since 1989
annual budget allocations for the project continuously decreased.
3.13. Since the intemal budgetary funds were insufficient, planned investments were not
realized. This, resulted in low disbursements rates and payment of commitment fees. The
delays due to limited funds were particularly significant in the civil works component. The
VGTC construction program could not be realized because of high costs resulted from high
inflation. Tax, duty and fees for the important goods were not paid due to insufficiency of
funds, later with the storage costs and penalties the amount reached to 80% of the costs of
goods.



18
3.14. The project activities had been severely affected due to insufficient local counterpart
funds provided by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade and the State Planning
Organization. Besides, to meet the expenses such as fees and duties in importation and to be
able to underline the construction work, an emphasis was placed on category 700 (for
construction) and category 800 (for tax and fees). This application caused a limited allocation
for the other services.
FUNDS PLANNING OF TYUAP II
(Million TL)
First    Second    Third     Fourth    Fifth     Sixth    Seventh
Year      Year      Year      Year     Year      Year      Year
1985      1986      1987      1988     1989      1990      1991
Amount of the    11.194    22.182    32.767    28.508    20.763   34.053       -
internal purposed
with the project
Amount of the     8.60      8.150    12.300     16.00    34.800    33.153    23.500
internal source
allocated in the
application    _   _  _   _==
Funds allocated for 1992:  37.073
Funds allocated for 1993:  64.158
1 US$: TL 585 in 1985, TL 767 in 1986, TL 1033 in 1987, TL 1399 in 1988, TL 1800 in
1989, TL 2956 in 1990, TL 2604 in 1991, TL 4082 in 1992, TL 6820 in 1993 (according to
SPO data).
3.15.    During project years 641 VGTC's were constructed and together with the 235 VGTC's
constructed before the project, the number of VGTC's reached to 876. The World Bank
stipulated the construction of a minimum of 200 VGTC's to extend the project. Later, as a
result of series of discussions flexibility was provided. Due to insufficient budget allocation and
incomplete procedures for transferring required amounts into the budget of General Directorates
of Rural Services (GDRS), problems arisen in the implementation of 1992 civil works program.
3.16.    Construction of 331 VGTC was planned in 1992 program to use IIAD and IBRD
Loans. It has been planned to meet 20% of the construction costs from the internal budget and
80% from IBRD pass limited budget possibilities. The construction tender document had
prepared by reaching an agreement with the World Bank and forwarded to the GDRS in the
attachment of 1992 construction program.



19
3.17.   However, the GDRS had been stated that the amount of the tender to be hold would
be as much as the funds amount in the intemal source. The reasons are shown below;
-  difficulty and delay transferring the allocation in the GDRS's investment budget
of 1992 to supplementary budget,
-  delay in the transfer 80% of the amount to be met from the credit to their budget,
-  difficulty in the payments of contractors,
-  delay in the tender according to the World Bank methods due to some processes
such as permission of the Court of Account and the Finance.
The construction program had been revised according to the amount of the intemal source and
the tender had been hold, but the tender was cancelled by the Ministry.
3.18.   The construction project and the tender documents for the construction of Eskisehir
Research Complex were prepared by a consulting firm and the tender was opened. It has been
envisaged to fund 75 % of the costs by IBRD and 25% by the government but, the tender
amounting TL 48 billion was cancelled by the Ministry. Later, an agreement was reached with
the World Bank to hold the tender again. The necessary changes have been done and the tender
was hold again. The necessary changes have been done and the tender was opened again.
However, the formalities were not completed to fund the construction under the project.
Therefore, the Loan was not utilized for this purpose. An agreement was reached with the Bank
to fund the complex under the Loan 3177-TU.
3.19.   Procurement of goods was done through international bidding under the project.
According to the Loan Agreement, the payment concerning tax, duties and fees would be paid
by the Turkish Government. Customs clearance of the goods was delayed because of the lengthy
procedures. Besides, the payments to be made reached high levels.
3.20.   For this reason, it would be useful to exempt tax, duties importation fees from the
prices in respect of carrying out the services rapidly. TUGEM which is the responsible agency
for the application of the project, attempted several times to solve this matter but failed.
4.     Lessons Learned
4.01.   Some progress was recorded in research-extension linkage. It was determined that
during the implementation period, not only managers, all technical staff contacted each other,
discussed the issues at different platforms and searched solutions. In previous years, the
research-extension linkage was very poor, even in the same province there was almost no contact
between research and extension staff. Today the activities in Aegean and the Marmara region
have been continued at more advanced level than envisaged during appraisal particularly in terms
of research-extension linkage. Not only the institutions which were involved in the project also
the universities in the region, other provinces and research institutions work in close
cooperation.



20
Table 1
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans
Project                    Loan/Credit    Amount    Status
No        (US$M)
Seyhan Irrigation I                        Loan 63-TU        25.2   Completed
Seyhan Irrigation I                        Credit 38-TU      20.0   Completed
Seyhan Irrigation III                      Credit 143-TU      12.0   Completed
Seyhan Irrigation II                       Loan 587-TU        12.0   Completed
Fresh Fruit & Vegetable Export             Loan 762-TU        10.0   Completed
Fresh Fruit & Vegetable Export             Credit 257-TU      15.0   Completed
Irrigation Rehabilitation Completion       Credit 281-TU      18.0   Completed
Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose               Credit 883-TU     44.0   Completed
Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose               Credit-360-TU     30.0   Completed
Corum-Cankiri Rural Development            Loan 1130-TU      75.0   Completed
Second Fruit and Vegetables                Loan 1967-TU      40.0   Completed
Erzurum Rural Development                  Loan 2094-TU      40.0   Completed
Second Extension and Applied Research      Loan 3177-TU      63.0   On-going
Agricultural Research                      Loan 3472-TU      55.0   On-going
Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation  Loan 3567-TU      77.0   On-going



21
Table 2
Project Timetable
Activity                  Date Planned       Revised Date      Actual Date
Identification                                                 June 1980
Preparation (Interim)                                          Sep  1982
Preparation (Final)                                            Mar/Apr, 1983
Pre-Appraisal                                                  May/Jun, 1983
Appraisal                                                      June 6, 1984
Negotiations                                                   Feb 21, 1984
Board Approval                                                 Apr 17, 1984
Loan Signature                                                 Apr 25, 1984
Loan Effectiveness                           Jul 25, 1984    Sep 5, 1984
Project Completion         Dec 31, 1990      Jun 30, 1991
Jun 30, 1992
Jun 30, 1993    Jun 30, 1993
Loan Closing               Mar 31, 1990                        Oct 31, 1993



22
Table 3
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
As of Dec 31, 1994
IBRD           IFAD4          TOTAL
Appraisal Estimate (US$ Million)2        72.00          10.00           82.00
Actual Disbursements (USS million)3    61.90             6.60           68.50
Actual as % of Appraisal Estimate        85.97           66             83.53
Date of Final Disbursement               April 25, 1994    -            61.98
2/ Per SAR and Loan Agreements.
I/ Per WB disbursement records.
4/ IFAD Loan Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1994/



23
Table 4.Project Implementation
Table 4
Indicator               Appraisal       Actual or   | Actual as % of
Estimate      PCR Estimate    SAR Estimate
Civil Works (m2)                   327 022           93 541                29
Research                          25 596                _                 _
Extension                        301 426           93 541                31
Vehicles (unit)                       2 661           1 705                64
Equipment (no of items)
Field (for research)                   57              78               137
Laboratory (for research)              96             139               145
Documentation/information
equipment (for research               112             122               109
and extention)
Animal/Plant material (no             2775              700                25
of items)
Training
Msc (numbers)                        174               91                52
Shortterm (personmonths)             510              407                80
Consulting services                     110             127               115
(personmionths)



Table 5A
Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$M equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate                             Actual
Component                     Local Cost  Forex Cost   Total   Local Cost   Forex Cost   Total
Extension in service              85.5         42.0       127.5        76.9           39.1        116.0
Ext. Information cent               2.0         2.4         4.4         0.3            0.8          1.1
Applied research                    9.1        10.8        19.9        14.6           16.1         30.7
Pro. Management m&e                 0.8         0.3         1.1         2.0            0.8          2.8
Training                            0.4        11.3        11.7         0.0            9.3          9.3
Technical assistance                0.2         1.5         1.7         0.6            2.2          2.8
Physical contingen.                5.7          1.4         7.1
Price contingen.                  20.0         12.3        32.3
Sub-total                        123.7         82.0       205.7
Project end fee                    0.0          0.2         0.2         0.0            0.2          0.2
Grand total                       123.7        82.2       205.9        94.4           68.5        162.9



Table 5B
B. Project Financing
(US$ equivalent)
Planned                                   Revised                                     Actual
1BRD       SRD IfAD        TOTAL          IBRO          IFAD          TOTAL          IBRO           IFAD          TOTAL
1. (a) Civil works and
furn. for extension offices
in Southeastern Anatolia                       2 200 000    2,200,000                     3 110 000    3 110 000                       805 305        805 305
(b) Construction of
information center and new
research
buildings/facilities/ext.
buildings housing                11 700 000         -        11 700 000   11 112 000                                  5 703 202           -          5 703 202
2. Vehicles                      11 440 000    1 560 000    13 000 000   11 535 000    1 560 000                      11 581 214      1 569 920
3. Equipment and Books           4 900 000          -         4 900 000    13 954 000          -                      12 770 780          -
4. Overseas Training             10 120 000    1 380 000    11 500 000    7 575 000    1 380 000                      8 173 493       1 114 353
S.  Consultant Services          1 470 000          -         1 470 000    2 119 000          -                       2 233 563           -
6. Incremental Operating
Costs                            17 820 000    2 430 000   20 250 000   21 321 500   2 360 000                        21 321 079      2 857 504
7. Initial deposit to
Special Account for
categories la, lb, 6             4 400 0001       600 000    5 000 000   4 400 000          600 000                   2 998 990         255 470
8. Fee                              180 o50                    180 050         180 050        .                           180 050        -
9. Unallocated                   10 169 950    1 830 000    11 999 950          3 450       990 000                       .
TOTAL                        72 200 000   10 000 000   82 200 000   72 200 000   10 000 000                       61 966 379      6 602 552
Source:  SAR, World Bank disbursement records,
Government records



26
Table 6A
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
AppraisaL Estimate                   PCR Estimate/Actual
Total Number of Beneficiariesl                               253,000                               353,000
Incremental Enptoyment (Jobs                                   1,500                                    N/A
Wheat YieLds' (kg/ha)                                          2,010                                  2,191
1 The undreliable nature of the underLying statistics raise questions about the comparability of these figures.
2 Are.yieLds 1982/84 and 1990/91



27
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
Status of Conai     ts
i _____________________    Subject                                                       Status
1.Section 3.02. (b)       Open & maintain at T.C. Merkez Bankasi a Bank Special   CompLied
and a Furd Special Account in accordance with
Schedules 6 & 7
2.Section 4.01 (a)        Carry out project with due diligence and efficiency           Partially complied,
difficulties mainly to
l ____________________                                                                   budgetary   constraints
3.Section 4.01 (b)        EstabLish and maintain                                        PartiaLLy complied, CCC exists
(i) a CentraL Coordination committee, a Central               but not effective 4 RC exist
Executive Committee, four RegionaL Committees and             but not effective additionaL
Project Acdninistration Unit                                  staff recruited
lii) recruit and assign additional staff
4.Section 4.02            GDAA to enter and maintain protocoLs with                     CompLied
(1) the agr. facuLties at the Universities of Ankara,
Izmir, and Adana to assist in training of Provincial
Extension staff
(2) TURDOK, FRT and TRT to assist with EIC
5.Section 4.03            (a) employ an organization for the administration of    Complied
the overseas training program;
(b) employ consuLtants satisfactory to the Bank
6.Section 4.04            Issue revised job descriptions for all Provincial             Complied, but late
Extension staff in the project area by September 30,
1984
7.Section 4.05 (a)        Insure imported goods against hazards incident                Complied
8.Section 4.05 (b)        Use Bank and Fund Loans excLusiveLy for project               PartiaLly complied, vehicle
purposes                                                      allocation not always
exclusively for project use.
9.Section 4.06 (a)        Furnish the Bank promptLy with pLans, specifications,   PartiaLLy complied, Late, for
reports, contract documents and construction and              vehicles, equipment and civil
procurement schedules for the project                         works: procurement deLays
10.Section 4.06 (b)       GDAA shall
(i)   record and monitor project progress (costs and    Partially complied
benefits)
(ii)  enable Bank/Fund representatives to visit the           CompLied
project
(iii) prepare for each semester progress and                  Complied
evaluation reports
(iv)  furnish at regular intervals information                PartiaLly complied, costs and
concerning the project, its cost, benefits,                   benefits missing
expenditures financed by the Bank/Fund loans
(v)   furnish prior to the end of the 2nd year of             Not available
project execution terms of reference for mid-term
review
(vi)  carry out mid-term review during third year but   Partially complied, 1988;
not later than March 31, 1987                                 delays in start-up
11.Section 4.06 (c)       Prepare a Project Completion Report not later than            Open
six months after the closing date



28
12.Section 4.07          Acquire rights in respect of Land for carrying out          Complied
project
13.Section 4.08 (a)      Furnish a draft Annual Work Program not later than          PartiaLLy compLied, Late,
September 15 of each year for the foLlowing year            mechanicaL exercise
Revise said draft AnnuaL Work Program and inform            Partially complied, unforeseen
14.Section 4.08 (b)      Bank/Fund of budgetary allocations                          budget shortfalls impeded
implementation of plans
15.Section 4.09 (a)      Establish and maintain ministerial working groups to    Not complied, due to
deveLop inter alia the reorganization and                   ministerial reorganization
consolidation of the extension and research services
16.Section 4.09 (b)      Discuss the findings and recommendations of said            Not complied, due to
ministerial working not later than June 30, 1986            ministerial reorganization
17.Section 5.02 (a)      Maintain separate accounts and records by                   Complied
participating institutions to reflect operations,
resources and expenditures to be submitted within two
months after the end of each semester
18.Section 5.02 (b)      (i)   Maintain separate accounts reflecting aLl             CompLied
expenditures on accounts
(ii)  Retain untiL one year after closing date aLl          Open
records
(iii) Enable Bank/Fund representative to examine such   Complied
records
19.Section 5.02 (c)      ti) Have the separate accounts mentioned under              Complied, sometimes late
5.02 (a) audited each fiscal year by independent
auditors
(ii) Furnish a certified copy of the audit in English   Complied, sometimes Late
not later than 9 months after the end of each fiscal
year incLuding a separate opinion in respect of the
expenditures and records mentioned under 5.02 (b)
20.Section 5.03 (a)      Maintain and renew buildings, equipment and machinery   Partially complied, building
maintenance poor budget
problems
21.Section 5.03 (b)      Maintain in the project area for at Least ten years         Open
following compLetion of the project the extension and
research systems introduced under the project and
provide the necessary funds, facilities and services
for that purpose
22.Section 5.04          Take all measures necessary to ensure availability to   Partially complied,
farmers in the project area of a) credit facilities         availability of seeds and
and b) agricultural inputs                                  credit
23.Section 7.01          Conditions of Loan effectiveness:
(a) Fund loan agreement authorized or ratified and          Complied
the Fund has appointed the Bank as Cooperating
Institution
(b) Bank/Fund Special Accounts opened                       CompLied, but not functioning
(c) Administrative entities under 4.01 (b) have been    Complied
established
(d) Protocols referred under 4.02 signed                    Complied
(e) Ministerial working groups 94.09) established           Not complied
24.Section 7.02          Additional matters to be included in the opinion to         Cooplied but not functioning
be furnished to the Bank
(a) estabLishment of the Central Coordination
Committee, the Central Executive Coffnittee, the 4
regionaL committees and the Project Administration
Unit (4.01(b)) as administrative entities
(b) protocols (4.02) signed, delivered and ratified
ource: Loan Agreements, supervision Reports and GL)PU



29
Table 8A
Use of Bank Resources: A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
PREP. &            APPR.         NEGOT.              SPN            PCR            TOTAL
PREAPPR.
FY82                     2.7                                                                               2.7
FY83                    51.3             23.6                                                             74.9
FY84                                    47.6          7.1                  1.5                           56.2
FY85                                                                      10.3                            10.3
FY86                                                                      28.0                            28.0
FY87                                                                      24.9                            24.9
FY88                                                                     35.2                            35.2
FY89                                                                      23.8                           23.8
FY90                                                                      17.9                            17.9
FY91                                                                      14.6                            14.6
FY92                                                                       8.3                             8.3
FY93                                                                      10.2                            10.2
FY94                                                                                   5.0                 5.0
TOTAL                   54.0            71.2          7.1                174.7         5.0              312.0



Table 8B
Use of Bank Resources
B. Staff Input and Mission Data
Stage of         Sent by    Month/Year              No. of   Period in  Specialization  Performance  Types of
Project Cycle                                       Persons  Field       Represented      Rating         Problems
(week)                                              ||
Identification   FAOCP       Aug 9-Sep 5, 82        2        4           E/EX                            *
Preparation      WB          Dec 18-22, 82          1        1           E                               *
Preparation      WB Cons.   Jan 15-27, 83           1        2           EX                              *
Preparation      WB          Mar 1-22, 83           4        3           E/AE/EX/L                       *
Mar 31-Apr 8, 83
Preparation      WB          May 23-Jun 5, 83       8        3           A/E/AE/EX/                      *
Appraisal  1/    WE          Jun 6-21, 83           8        3           L/AR/C                          *
Supervision      WB          Sep 17-29, 84          2        2           A/AR                            *
Supervision      FAO         Feb 19-22, 84          1        5           C                               *
Supervision      WB          Apr 14-27, 85          1        2           A                2              2/4
Supervision      WB          Oct 20-Nov 2, 85       1        2           A                2              4
Supervision      WB          Jun 15-Jul 7, 86       3        3           A/P              2              7                 O
Supervision      WB          Jun 1-Jul 9, 87  2/  10         5.5         A/L/AR/H/E/EX   3               2/3
Supervision      WB          Jun 6-29, 88           3        3           A/EX/AR          3              2/3/8
Supervision      WB          Feb 27-Mar 3, 89       1        1           A                               *
Supervision      WB          May 29-Jun 21, 89    6          3.5         P/EX/E           2              2/4
Supervision      WB          Jun 11-29, 90          5        3           AE/P/EX/A/F                     4/5
Supervision      WB          Apr 1-11, 91           2        2           A/P                             *
Supervision      WB          Jun 4-21, 91           2        2           P/EX                            *
Supervision      WB          Jan 27-Feb 14, 92    4          3           E/A/ZX           2              2/3/5/6
Supervision      WE          Nov 5-16, 92           3        2           E/A/AE           2              3/4/5
Supervision      WE          Apr 26-May 6, 93       2        2           A/A              2              2/3/4
1/ Preappraisal-cum-appraisal, 2/ mid-term review mission
* 590 not prepared or not in files
Tyve of vroblems:
2. project management performance, 3. availability of funds, 4. procurement progress, 5. training, 6. TA
progress, 7. disbursement, 8. development impact
A. Agriculturalist, AR. Architect, E. Agricultural Economist, E. Economist, C. Communications Specialist,
F. Forestry, Specialist, H. Human Resources Specialist, L. Livestock Specialist, EX. Ext. Specialist



