Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report r o. 4818-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
March 13, 1984
Regional Projects Department
Europe, MLddle East and North Africa
R gional Office
This docnment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                                      Turkish lira (TL) 270 a/
TL 1                                      US$0.004
TL 1,000,000                              US$3,704
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                          2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                                             1,000 kilograms
I metric ton                                             0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                              1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                         0.62 mile
1 hectare (he) = 10,000 m2                               2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha                                        0.25 acre
I sauare kilometer (km2)                                 0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                                              0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
AE         -    Agricultural Engineer for Extension
CAE        -    County Chief Agricultural Engineer of TZ
EIC        -    Extension Information Center
FRT        -    Film, Radio and Television Center of Ministry of Education
GAHRI      -    Grassland and Animal Husbandry Research Inetitute of GDAA
GDAA       -    General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MAFRA
CDPPQ      -    General Directcrate of Plant Protection and Quarantine of MAFRA
GDVA       -    General Directorate of Veterinary Affairs of MAFRA
ICB        -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB        -    Local Competitive Bidding
LDP        -    General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects of MAFRA
LIB        -    Limited International bidding
MAFRA      -    Ministry of Agricu'cure, Forestry and Rural Affairs
M&E        -    Monitorirg and tvaluation
MPWR       -    Ministry of Public Works and Resettlement
ORKOY      -    Department of Forest Villages of MAFRA
PAU        -    Project Administration Unit in GDAA's Department of
Externally-Financed Projects
SEE        -    State Economic Enterprise
SEKER      -    Turkish Sugar Factories, an SEE
SIS        -    State Institute of Statistics
SMS        -    Subject Matter Specialist
SPO        -    State Planning Organization
TCZB       -    Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TEKEL      -    Tea & Tobacco Monopoly, a Parastatal
TMO        -    Soil Products Office, an SEE
TOPRAKSU   -    Land and Water Development Agency of MAFRA
TRT        -    Turkish Radio and Television Service
TSEK       -    Milk Industries Organization, an SEE
TURDOK     -    Turkish National Documentation Center
TYT        -    Wool and Mohair Corporation, an SEE
TZ         -    Teknik Ziraat, the Field Extension Service of GDAA
TZDK       -    Agricultural Supply Organization, an SEE
VGI'       -    Village Group Technician
YEM        -    Turkish Feed Industries, an SEE
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Turkey           -      January 1 to December 31
SEEs ,nd TCZB                 -       January 1 to December 31
a/  Exchange rate for December 1983.  Exchange rate is adjusted daily
on a crawling-peg system.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Tablc of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .................................,                         ,    1
A.  Project Background ,            . f                                    1
B.    Agriculture   in  Turkey   ....................  , 1........... .    I
C.  Agricultural Policies, Performance and Prospects         ,             3
D. Bank's Contribution and Lending Strategy
in the Agricultural Sector .............* .............              4
II.   AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH IN TURKEY .....           .....        6
A.  Agricultural Extension ...... ..            .............. .... ...    6
- GDAA's Extension Service (Teknik Ziraat)                            6
- Other Extension Services ..............................            10
B.  Agricultural Research .......        ....................             11
- Institutional Aspects ....        ............... .....            11
- Staffing and Links with Outside Research Institutions              13
- Current Research Activities of GDAA .M..............."             14
C.  Bank's Experience with Extension and Research in Turkey ..            15
III.   THE PROJECT ................... , , ,     .. . .... ......       .17
A.  Objectives and Rationale                ..  .........           , ,    17
B. Project Scope                   ..18
-Project Design and Sectoral Context                  , ,            18
- Project Area             ......................                    20
C.  Project Concepts and Overall Description ...  . . .             . . ..  21
D. Detailed Features ...................................,.22
- Technology Transfer                       .......   .......,   22
-Research and Development ......         ..............              28
-Monitoring and Evaluation ....            ....,                     30
- Training        ......                                             32
-Technical Assistance and Studies.. ..                               33
E.  Project Cost .       .................                  ......        34
F.  Financing ................               ......                       36
G.  Procurement        *..*...........***.....                            37
H.  Disbursements ..............    .............      ...........        39
I. Accounts and Audit ........................ ..            ......      40
This report is based on the findings of the preappraisal/appraisal mission
of May/June 1983, which consisted of Ms. S. Tillier, Messrs. R. Burcroff II,
S. Freiberg and D. Kaufmann (Bank), and Messrs. R. Ayre-Sniith, Y. Doganca,
D. Shoesmith and R. Sood (Consultants). The mission was joined in the field
by Mr. B. Aklilu (IFAD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance_
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................                        41
A.  Organization and Management   , .          ,     .,                41
B. Civil Works         ................,.,., .,                        42
C.  Implementation Schedule . ........... *.......... ******** .       43
D.  Project Supervision and Progress Reporting                         45
V.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.     ......... ....                   46
A.  Benefits and Justification.                                        46
B. Project Risks                             .                           ......... ,,,47
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................                    48
TEXT TABLES
3.1    Project Cost Summary
3.2    Project Financing Plan
3.3    Summary of Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
1.     Cost Estimates
2.     Proposed Allocation of Bank and IFAD Loans
3.     Schedule of Disbursements
4.     Annual Work Program
5.     Standard Cadre of Extension Service in the Project Area
6.     Extension Staff:  Total Requirements, Existing Staff
Fnd Incremental Requirements
7.     Extension Buildings:  Total Requirements, Existing and
Incremental Requirements
8.     Extension Vehicles:  Total Requirements, Existing and
Incremental Requirements (Indicative)
9.     Staffing Schedule for Consultants
10.    Outline of Terms of Reference for the Working Groups on Research
and Extension
11.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
World Bank 25526: Organization Chart of GDAA
World Bank 25793: Project Organization Chart
World Bank 25527: Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 17595: Project Area



TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
l. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01     The Government of Turkey seeks to improve the efficiency of its
agricultural extension services throughout the country. Tlhe proposed project
will provide support to the reorganization and strengthening of the extensior
service of ttie General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA) of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) in 16 provinces
and will strengthen six selected agricultural re,earch institutes serving the
project area. This project ia intended to be the first phase of a multiphased
effort which will ultimately extend similar concepts to all 67 provinces of
the country.
1.02     The proposed project originated with Government's request to the June
1980 Agricultural Sector Identification Mission for Bank assistance to finance
a nationwide extension irnprovement project, and the Bank's suggcstion that a
phased approach be followed instead on the basis of agroecoLogical zones. The
Government accepted this recommendation in 1982. Following the initiation of
formal preparation by GDAA, an FAO/CP mission visited Turkey in August/September
1982. Subsequently, the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) expressed interest in cofinancing the project, and a number of Bank
missions discussed with GDAA the need for additional preparation. A formal
Bank preparation mission went to Turkey in March/April 1983, followed in
May/June 1983 by a preappraisal mission during which a decision was made that
preparation had advanced sufficiently to proceed with appraisal.
B. Agriculture in Turkey
1.03     While the importance of the agricultural sector in the Turkish
economy is declining, it still accounts for about 20% of the gross domestic
product (GDP), close to half of all export earnings, and more than 60% of
total civilian employment. 1Besides meeting domestic food needa, it also
supplies much of the raw materials for industry. The growth rates of
agricultural GDP and exports are projected to remain below those for the rest
of the economy. Nevertheless, agricultural growth has a significant role to
play in providing foreign exchange earnings and employment.
1.04     Turkey occ-tpies a total area of about 78 million ha and consists
mostly of an eastwards rising plateau (AnatolUa) of 800-2,000 meters of
elevation, bordered by mountains in the north and in the south, with fertile
plains along the coast and in valleys. Alluvial soils have the greatest
imDortance for crop production; large areas of central Turkey are, however,
aominated by fine-textured medium to shallow calcareous soils of the reddish
brown and brown soil groups. Turkey's climate is mainly determined by its
physical features and varies widely across the country.  The northern coastal
zone bordering the Black Sea receives the highest annual rainfall with fairly
even distribution throughout the year. The southern and western coastal
regions have a Mediterranean type climate with hot, dry summers and mild
winters during which occurs most of the annual rainfall. The interior regions



- 2 -
(which comprise most of the country) are subjE-t to continental influences
with a lower rainfall occurring mostly in spring and winter and more extreme
temperatures than the coastal areas; cold, snowy winters in particular greatly
limit the growing season and the range of crops grown. The mountains create
throughout the country many different local nicroclimates which vary with the
run of the valleys and other topographic features.
1.05     Intensive crop cultivation is prevalent in the coastal regions, which
have the most favorable climatic and soil conditions and where irrigation is
&enerally more developed than in the rest of the country. The production of
fruit and vegetables is particularly important in these regions; although
cereals occupy the largest share of the area under annual field crops, indus-
trial crops such as cotton and sunflowe- are wicaspread.  In all the rest of
the country, mixed farming (crop and livestock) predominates; a large share of
the agricultural land is occupied by low productivity pastures and rangeland,
and most of the arable land is under a cereal-fallow rotation with limited
cultivation of fruit and vegetables and of industrial crops such as sugarbeet.
1.06     For the whole of Turkey, some 17 million ha are  sown annually with
field crops (80% of which is cereals), while about 8 million ha are left under
fallow and a further 3.5 million ha consist of orchards, vineyards and
vegetable gardens. Until the late 1960s, agricultural development in Turkey
was characterized by a steady expansion of the total crop area, most of which
was at the expense of grazing land. Between 1946 and 1975, the total crop
area increased at an annual rate of 2.2%. The arable land frontier was
effectively closed in the 1970s and during the last decade, the total crop
area in Turkey expanded by only 0.3% p.a.; however, as a result of some
reduction in fallow land the area effectively cropped each year increased by
close to 0.8% p.a. Although changes in cropping patterns have been modest,
the relative importance of fruit and vegetables has increased somewhat during
the past decade while, among field crops, the share of cereals has declined
slightly in favor of pulses and oilseeds.
1.07     During the 1970s intensification of production was achieved through
yield increases for a number of major crops, largely as a result of a
considerable increase in the consumption of modern agricultural inputs
(fertilizer use tripled during the 1970s). Substantial increases in cereals
vields took place as a result of the successful wheat improvement programs
nplemented by the Government (para 2.02).  Average wheat yields went up from
l.r tons per hectare in the late 1960s to 1.8 tons per hectare in the late
1970s. As discussed in the agricultural sector study recently carried out by
the Bank 1/ there is scope for further intensification of agricultural
production in Turkey which, besides increases in irrigated area, could be
derived in particular from (i) further progression of yields, both in the
rainfed and irrigated areas, through diffusion of improved varieties and wider
adoption of the packages of complementary practices required to realize their
yield potential; (ii) further reduction in fallow land, a substantial part of
which is located in areas where climatic conditions would allow cultivation of
a forage or grain legume crop in alternate years in place of fallow; and (ii;.)
increase in double cropping in presrtntly irrigated areas, particularly in the
coastal regions.
1/ Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with Exports,
Report No. 4204-TU, June 30, 1983 (Annex 7).



1.08     Turkey has a large livestock resource, with over 15 million head of
cattle, 65 million sheep and goats and 3 million other large animals, many of
which are used for draft purposes. Commercial poultry production is
expanding; apiculture is widespread throughout the country and represents a
v:luable source of income for landless rural people, as does sericulture in
the Marmara region. The large population of grazing animals is partially
supported by close to 22 million ha of natural grasslands, about 3% of which
is productive neadowland, the remainder being rangelands. Due to the
restricted growing season and the degraded nature of the pastures and ranges
over much of Turkey, many animals suffer from a severe deficit of feed for 4-6
months of the year, which is only partially offset by the use of crop residues
and conserved forages. Livestock productivity is thus poor, the situation
often being exacerbated by the presence of animal disease and parasitism.
During the last decade, livestock productivity has not improved significantly
and most of the increase in production has been derived from increases in
liv1estock population, which has exacerbated the problei of overgrazing. A
priority for achieving broad-based productivity increases in the livestock
subsector is to strengthen the feed base for use by ruminants. Considering
the long-term nature of range improvement, and the sociopolitical constraints
which it faces, emphasis will have to be placed in the medium-term on
maximizing the use of crop residues and industrial by-products, expanding the
cultivation of forage crops and improving their harvesting and conservation
techniques.  In parallel, standards of disease prevention and control and of
herd management should be improved.
C. AgTicultural Policies, Performance and Prospects
1.09     Turkish development strategy during the 1960s and 1970s was based
upon industrial growth, with agriculture playing essentially a supportive
role. Agricultural policies were geared to ensuring an adequate and cheap
domestic supply of foodstuffs and indtustrial raw materials chrough budgetary
and financial subsidies to guarantee high producer prices, low cost inputs and
cheap credit in order to stimulate agricultural production and investment.
The domestic market was highly protected to encourage self-sufficiency in
foods, and agricultural commodity export markets were regarded as a vent for
any surplus production, with public agencies extensively involved in the
limited exporting that occurred. These policies encouraged the development of
near self-sufficiency in foodstuffs, and a respectable growth and investment
performance in the agricultural sector until about 1975.  From 1972-1975,
agricultural GDP grew at an average rate of 4.7% p.a. and sectoral fixed
investment at an average rate of 17.9% p.a. By the mid-1970s, the burden on
the economy of the subsidies to the agricultural sector had become all too
evident and these incentives could not be sustained, although the basic
strategy did not change. In addition, the annual rate of increase in
cultivated area slowed down as a result of the closing of the arable land
frontier, and the shift to intensive cultivation lagged. During the 1976-79
period, agricultural GDP growth fell to 1.4% p.a., and sectoral invest.,ent
growth declined to 1.7% p.a. During the entire decade, sectoral exports
remained a small fraction of total production (less than 1% of agricultural
CDP in 1979) and way bfelow potential due to the overvalued exchange rate and
other disincentives to export.



- 4 -
1.10     With the imposition of crisis management measures by the Government
in 1980 and 1981, much of the incentive apparatus put in place for farmers in
the 1970s was abruptly dismantled. The more outward-oriented development
strategy adopted by the Government led to a sharp reduction in input subsidies
and production price supports and the overall restraint o.i monetary policy
forced a curtailment of agricultural credit, while the introduction of a
competitive exchange rate policy and other incentives, together with a slack
domestic demand, encouraged exports. Thic. shift in strategy initially
resulted in considerable disarray in the agricultural sector; the growth of
agricultural GDIP in real terms fell to 1.7% in 1980 and further to less than
0.5% in 1981. In 1982, however, as a result of adjustments to the new policy
environment, ard aided by favorable weather and a good harvest, real growth in
agricultural GDP recovered to about 6.6%. In contrast with sector production
performance, agricultural exports during 1980 and 1981 increased by an annual
average rate of 29% over the two-year period. In 1982, however, export
performance was somewhat mixed. The total value of agricultural exports
declined by 4% below the 1981 level; despite some increase in volume for most
crops, the total value of crop exports declined by close to 12% as a result of
depressed prices, while the value of livestock exports continued to increase
in 1982 by more than 50% over the 1981 level. The livestock subsector, which
accounts for about one-third of agricultural GDP, has thus contributed 18% of
total agricultural exports in 1982, being equal in importance to the major
traditional export products of tobacco, cotton and hazelnuts. In 1983,
agricultural GDP fell by 0.8%, largely due to the effects of adverse weather
conditions, while the value of agricultural exports during the first nine
months of the year declined by some 15% below the 1982 level, due primarily to
further declines in export prices of main commodities.
1.11     The performance possibilities for Turkey's agricultural sector, over
the medium term, were examined in the recent agricultural sector study by the
Bank which indicates that during the remainder of the 1980s the agricultural
GDP could achieve a sustainable growth rate of 2.8-3% p.a., associated with
agricultural exports growth of 4-6% p.a., provided certain key policies are
pursued. Besides a continuation of the current movement towards free-trade
price and trade policies, this will require strong institutional measures to
foster a continuous growth in agricultural productivity, including: (i)
improvements in technology generation and its dissemination to farmers through
strengthening of research and extension programs; (ii) an increase in the rate
of investment in irrigation together with concentration of resources on a few
selected priority projects with high economic returns and in particular on
completion of ongoing projects with large sunk costs and of on-farm works in
areas already served by major irrigation infrastructure; (iii) the provision
of additional credit to encourage the uptake of improved technology at the
farm level; and (iv) improvements in marketing and inputs distribution systems.
D. Bank's Contribution and Lending Strategy
in the Agricultural Sector
1.12     As of January 1984, Bank/IDA have made 15 loans and 7 credits
totalling $846 million for 19 agricultural projects in Turkey, 8 of which have
been completed so far. Agricultural projects financed by the Bank include
several major irrigation schemes and projects for credit and the development
of farmer support services in horticulture, livestock, storage and processing



and rural development. Related investment support in other sectors includes
two fertilizer indtustry rehabilitation projects, the rehabilitation of the
Turkish Sugar Industries through a DFC loan to the State Investment Bank, and
support Eor the cotton textiles industry to increase the domestic value-added
content of textile exports. The Bank has also financed important sectoral
planning studies as project components, including master plans for the fruit
and vegetable and the livestock products subsectors, and a fertilizer pricing
and marketing study.
1.13     The principal objectives of the Bank program in agriculture are to
help increase output, productivity and exports, to contribute to reduction in
poverty thtough increased rural employment and to promote the necessary policy
and institutional reforms in the sector. To support the country's medium-term
macroeconomic adjustment program, the elements of Bank strategy in agriculture
inciude:
(a)  rationalization of the public sector investment program,
particularly in ir:igation, with greater focus on quick
gestating investment;
(b)  expanded credit supply, parti.ularly for medium- and small-scale
farmers, together with increased efficiency of credit institu-
tions and improved financial sector policies to encourage
greater private investment in the sector;
(c)  promotion of the greater use of market forces through reductions
in subsidies and price supports, interest rate reform and
increased involvement of the private sector in marketing of
agricultural inputs and products;
(d)  liberalization of the foreign trade regime, including further
deregulation of agricultural exports and seed imports and
inclusion of selected types of agricultural machinery and food
products on the lists of permitted imports; and
(e)  support to institutional reform, particularly the developmelnt of
improved research and extension services, the establishment of a
sectoral planning capability, the refornm of government enter-
prises involved in agriculturaL marketing and input supply, and
improvements in the implementation capacity of irrigation
agencies.
1.14     These objectives are being pursued through sector dialogue, the
structural adjustment lending program, and the lending program in agricul-
ture. At the project level, the core of the Bank lending strategy under
consideration for agriculture would be implemented through a series of
projects for completion of large under-financed irrigation schemes, develop-
ment of the agricultural extension services along multipurpose lines to
address Turkey's regionally diverse mixed-farming conditions, and repeater
lines of agricultural credit to an appropriate financial intermediary to
support farmers benefiting under these projects. Through a proposed IAEE
Irrigation Project, public sector investment will be channelled more
efficiently to quick-yielding projects, and greater private contractor
participation in on-farm development works will be promoted, together with a
reduction in subsidies for water, drainage and land-levelling work.i. The



recent Agricultural Credit II Project is expected to promote agricultural
output and the adoption of new technology through the expansion of credit
availability, stimulate a reform of the principal financial institution in the
agricultural sector, foster the rationalization of interest rate policy in
agriculture, and initiate an investigation of ways to broaden agricultural
credit and resource mobilization in the rural areas. The proposed Agricul-
tural Extension and Applied Research Project coristitutes a majot component of
the Bank's strategy in the agricultural sector, and will represent a first
step in improving the delivery and quality of a6.icuLtural extension services
nationwide, thus completing the first tranche of the core investments needed
to stimulate intensified production.
II. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH IN TURKEY
A. Agricultural Extension
GDAA's Agricultural Extension Service (2eknik Ziraat)
2.01     Among the various agencies providing extension services to farmers,
the General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA) of MAFRA has by far the
largest number of field staff, with responsibilities covering virtually every
aspect of crop and livestock agriculture. Its field organization, known as
Teknik Ziraat (TZ), is represented in all 67 administrative provinces and 631
counties of the country, with a total staff of 947 agricultural engineers,
5,377 agricultural technicians and 858 home economists as of mid-1983. Many
of these are, however, extensively involved in administrative and other duties
besides extension (paras 2.09-2.1G).
2.02     In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the TZ extension service has
substantially contributed to increases in agricultural productivity and
income, mainly by participating in the distribution of improved seeds and the
promotion of fertilizer use and to a lesser extent improved agronomic
practices. In particular, spectacular increases in cereals yields occurred
during this period as a result of the introduction of high-yielding wheat
varieties suited to the coastal areas and, thereafter, of improved winter
varieties for the central Anatolian plateau togethler with complementary
agronomic practices for moisture conservation and weed control. These
improved varieties and cultivation methods were developed in the context of
the National Wheat Program launched by Government in 1969 with support from
CIMMYT, under which national priority was given to increasing wheat produc-
tion, special research groups were established in regional research institutes
in order to carry out variety development and adaptive wheat trials, and teams
of extension staff from GDAA were posted at the research inatitutes. These
"wheat subject matter specialists" of the extension service were responsible
for iiaising with the researchers, preparing extension materials such as
pamphlets, slides or cassettes, and training the TZ staff and farmers in the
provinces on the new varieties and cultivation practices for wheat.
2.03     Since this extension campaign for wheat production in the early
1970s, there has been a slackening off in extension drive, and both the
effectiveness and credibility of the TZ extension service have been



-7-
deteriorating.  The absence of further technological breakthroughs comparable
in importance and visibility to the introduction of high-yielding varieties as
well as the lack of clear national priorities both for research and extension
have largely contributed to this situation.  At the same time, TZ hias been
slow in adapting to changing agricultural circumstances in Turkey. The use of
improved seeds and chemical inputs is now widespread and a degree of technical
skills and sophistication has been achieved in Turkish agriculture, while a
ntumber of production incentives are now progressively decreased as a result of
the new economic policy of the Government. As a result, the role of the
extension service has to shift from the mere promotion of modern inputs
towards more sophisticated technical advice taking into account particular
locations as well as the economic environment of the farmers (e.g. advice on
optimal quantities and types of fertilizer, cultivation methods relevant in
specific locations, machinery adapted to farm size, practical way of feeding
animals within the financial constraints of the farmers, etc.). Very little
extension work is presently done along such lines by TZ.
2.04     Weak links with agricultural research institutions contribute to
limit the efficiency of the TZ extension service. GDAA's agricultural
research institutes have only tenuous formal links with TZ, although since
1981 both belong to the same General Directorate of MAFRA. These linkages are
limited to occasional temporary cooperation on specific projects, whereby the
TZ staff may be involved in assisting researchers in the implementation of
field trials on the farmers' land, and to occasional participation of
researchers in training sessions for the extension staff. Such activities are
neither systematic nor regularly programmed, and communication between
research workers and extension agents remains largely dependent on individual
initiative at the field level and is in most cases insufficient. Links
between TZ and research institutes or stations of agencies other than GDAA are
even weaker. This situation has somewhat limited the relevance and usefulness
of some of the investigations undertaken by the research institutions (para
2.26), while on the other hand the extension workers are often unaware of
existing research results which could benefit the farmers.
2.05     Other features relating to TZ's own modes of operations and/or
resources also affect its effectiveness as an extension service. TFirstly, the
only consistently programmed and monitored extension activities of the TZ
field staff consist of local extension projects which are usually commodity-
specific and each of which concerns only -ne particular aspect of the farmers'
operations. These projects form the basis of the annual budget requests
submitted by the TZ county offices, and are often carried over ftos year to
year. Their targets are most of the time set in terms of area (e.g. 1,000
decares to be sown under a new variety of maize, 30,000 decares of cotton to
be treated against a particular pest) or quantities of inputs to be distri-
buted (e.g. 20 improved bulls to be distributed). By contrast, the more
general aspects of extension, including advice on farm man-agement and answers
to particular problems faced by the farmers outside of these projects, are not
systematically budgeted nor monitored. As extension agents deal mostly with
the individual farmers who are willing to participate in the programmed
projects, there is no operational procedure for incorporating general feedback
from the farmers to the extension service and assessing the relevance of the
projects to the specific needs of various groups of farmers.



-8-
2.06     These problems resulting from the programming and monitoring
procedures of TZ 's operat4ons are often compounded by the inadequacy of the
technical and specialist expertise available to support the extension wort' of
the county staff. The programnmed extension projects are implemented by TZ's
county staff, which consist mostly of agricultural technicians with a
generalist background, working under the supervision of the county agricul-
tural officer (normally a graduate agricultural engineer). At the provincial
level, there is a teatn of agricultural engineers organized in specialist
sections (field crops, horticulture, mechanization, etc.), with responsibility
for technical support to the staff of the various counties within the
province. In reality, the distribution of these specialist agricultural
engineers between provinces is rather unbalanced and until recently their
assignment to one particular specialist sectiun was made with virtually no
regard for thei.- academic specialization or technical background. Although
CDAA implements eachi year a substantial in-service training program, it is not
bused on a systematic assessment of training needs for TZ's specinlists, and
staff often attend training on a specific subject which is not related to
their position cr the priority needs of their area of operation.  As a result,
the actual role of the provincial specialists tends to be limited to the
control of the physical implementation of the approved projects by the county
technicians, with little further support.
2.07     The field implementation of the programmed extension projects often
involves an important bias in the location of the recipient farmers.
Typically, these tend to belong to the largest and most accessible villages,
for instance in irrigated plains, with outlying or lesser developed villages
in surrounding hills being left out. Several projects are often carried out
in one sin-,le village, with sonmetimes the same participating farmers, while
other villages do not benefit from any specific project and are rarely visited
by the TZ staff. This results at least in good part from the fact that in
most cases TZ's operations are carried out entirely from its county offices
with limited availability of transportation. Although each county is in
theory divided for extension purposes into a number of village groups, with in
each group a "focal" village to be staffed with an agricultural technician, in
reality only a very small number of TZ's village groups do have a resident
technician.  The shortage of technicians, together with the lack of housing in
many villages and the insufficient number of vehicles available, has up to now
prevented TZ from posting its technicians in the villages as intended.
2.08      TZ's extension operations are done quasi-exclusively through personal
contacts with individual farmers, sometimes supplemented by group discussions
or farmers' training sessions. "1ery little use is made of audiovisual
materials and mass media. While most of TZ's provincial and county offices
are equipped with projectors, there is a dearth of slides or movies, and the
few that are available are often of foreign origin and of limited relevance to
local conditions.  Some TZ provincial offices publish newsletters or ot'ner
written materials for use by extension staff or farmers, but such publications
are sporadic and of poor design with plain text presentation. The journal-
istic, editorial and design skills which would be necessary to produce printed
materials, such as posters, adapted to the level of education of the farmers,
are not available in the TZ service. While the Turkish Radio and Television



Service (TRT) produces regular agricultural radio programs, and occasionally
some television programs, there is no systematic coordination with TZ on these
matters and the resources offered by radio and television for agricultural
extension remain underutilized.
2.09     Apart from extension, the TZ staff is responsible for extensive
administrative, regulatory and record-keeping duties. These tasks are very
time-consuming and associated with a heavy paperwork load, especially in the
prevailing context of strict centralization and cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures. They include the preparation of agricultural stati-tics and of
estimates of fertilizer and seeds requirements, the administration of a number
of laws and arbi:iation o  farmers' disputes, the certification of farmers'
land area and sometimes the preparation of loan applications for individuals
requesting credit from the Agricultural Bank (TCZB), the issue of requisition
forms enabling the farmers to purchase fertilizer from the public agency in
charge (TZDK), etc. Most of these tasks have a useful purpose and have to be
performed by an organization, such as TZ, which has an extensive field base.
Some of them also represent an opportunity for providing technical advice to
the farmers or for coordinating with other public agencies involved in credit
and input supply. However, TZ's actual role is often limited to paper
stamping or to filling forms with data of questionable accuracy and hence
limited use, and since all TZ staff are involved to some degree in
administrative tasks, they occupy a large portion of the time of skilled
agricultural engineers and technicians, even though a lot of them could be
carried out by less qualified personnel. As administrative or regulatory
duties are easier to perform and more immediatel- visible than actual
extension work and, on the other hand, the latter is poorly planned and does
not provide adequate guidance and technical support to the field extension
agents, the TZ staff tend to hedge behind their administrative and regulatory
functions and have little incentive to suppress unnecessary or redundant tasks
and to streamline the procedures to reduce the bureaucratic workload.
2.10     Although the supply of agricultural inputs through public channels is
mostly vested in a separate organization (TZDK), TZ often handles itself the
distribution of seeds, seedlings or breeding animals from the producing
organization (state farm, research institute or production station) to the
farmers, which also generate paperwork and delays since each institution has
to seek authorization from its own headquarters. In the implementation of its
extension projects, TZ often distributes the corresponding inputs to partici-
pating farmers and/or provides agricultural equipment to perform the work. In
some cases, TZ operates itself production stations for seeds, seedlings or
animals, which are then distributed to Zarmers at no or reduced charge. All
these production/distribution functions, even though they do represent a
service to the farming community, distract the TZ staff from actual extension
work. They tend to be favored by some of the most dynamic elements of TZ, who
are eager to serve the farmers but lack adequate support to carry out
extension and are uncertain, under present circumstances, as to whether they
are in a position to provide useful technical advice to the farmers.
2.11     During recent years, officials from Government and the Ministry of
Agriculture have become increasingly aware of the benefits which could be
derived from providing a more efficient extension service to the farmers. A



- 10 -
number of steps have already been initiated in order to improve the efficiency
of the TZ extension ser-ice by tackling some of the above problems. A
detailed survey of TZ staff and transportation resources was carried out by
MAFRA in 1981, following which a staffing plan was drawn up for each province,
based on the intended adoption nationwide of a training and visit approach to
extension similar to the system previously adopted in some Bank-assisted
projects (para 2.27). At the same time, a decision was made to establish a
pre-service training if six months to one year for all staff newly recruited
by GDAA and to take into account the particular field of specialization of the
graduaLe agricultural engineers in organizing this practical training and in
their subsequent assignment in the provinces, so as to allow them to operate
as true subject-matter specialists within TZ.
2.12     In the context of the decision to strengthen and reorganize the TZ
extension service nationwide, GDAA has been authorized to recruit a number of
additional engineers and technicians since mid-1982. As of mid-1983, there
were some 260 agricultural engineers and 410 agricultural technicians in
pre-service training in GDAA, and a further 130 positions for engineers and
250 for technicians were being opened by competitive examination. In 1982-83,
a pilot program was started in six selected provinces, where existing
agricultural technicians have been redeployed in the villages and provided
with motorcycles and housing. In parallel with this, starting in 1981 GDAA
has set up two crash programs (second crop and fallow reduction programs)
which aim at promoting the adoption of key technological innovations by
integrating extension, applied research and the provision of credit. Under
these programs, additional extension staff and vehicles have been provided to
selected provinces, the TZ extension service has been revitalized by setting
clear priorities and targets in these two areas identified as national
priorities for increasing agricultural productivity and attempts have been
made to foster closer linkages between extension and research through the
establishment of joint field trials.
Other Extension Services
2.13     Besides GDAA. other public agencies are also involved in extension
activities, usually in specific subjects and/or in particular locations.
Among these, the General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine
(GDPPQ) and the General Directorate of Veterinary Affairs (GDVA), both in
MAFRA, have the largest number of staff and provide a comprehensive coverage
of the country down to the provincial or county level. Both GDPPQ and GDVA
provide a technical service to the farmers (plant protection or animal
vaccination campaigns), together with some extension advice on related
matters. GDPPQ is fairly well orF,anlzed, with much stronger and more
systematic links between its own research and extension staff than GDAA,
largely as a result of its regionally-based organization whi-h is
characterized by direct responsibility of each of the seven .egional plant
protection institutes for technical training and support to the plant
pr-tection field staff of a given region. The collaboration between GDPPQ's
field staff and TZ is generally quite good, and in cases where GDPPQ has no
direct representation at the county level the TZ staff is in charge of doing
plant protection work on its behalf and with its technical support. By
contrast, collaboration between TZ and GDVA at the field level is virtually



- 1l -
non-existent. It is usually considered that extension on animal production,
feeding and management is the responsibility of TZ, while GDVA deals with
animal health and breeding. This dichotomy and the lack of collaboration
between veterinarians of GDVA and zootechnicians of GDAA hamper the provision
of an efficient extension service for animal husbandry, whereby health care
and breed improvement should be tackled on a village basis with simultaneous
complementary actions on animal feeding, forage production and general
husbandry.
2.14     The General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP),
which was created within MAFRA for the implementation of the Bank-assisted
livestock development projects, also has responsibility for providing
technical advice on animal husbandry. However, its services have been up to
now limited to farmers who have applied for credit to purchase a nucleus of
improved animals under these projects, which concerns only a very small
fraction of livestock farmers in Turkey. The General Directorate of Soil and
Water Conservation (TOPRAKSU), which until December 1983 used to be in the
Ministry of Village Affairs now merged into MAFRA, supports several extension
programs in specific areas where it has constructed irrigation or soil
conservation works. These programs are usually fairly efficient. Selected
farmers or farmers' sons are trained as foremen in order to advise the other
villagers on irrigation practices and related aspects of crop cultivation.
There is usually a high ratio of foremen in relation to the number of farm
families (e.g. 1:80) immediately after completion of the irrigation works in a
given village; after a few years they are moved to another section of the
irrigation project.
2.15     Some important crops, such as tea, tobacco and sugar beet, benefit
from specialized extension services (respectively the tea and tobacco
monopolies and SEKER, the Sugar Factories Corporation). The Department of
Forest Villages (ORKOY) of MAFRA, which was established to provide assistance
to the often impoverished and remote villages situated on land classified as
forest, implements a number of forest village projects involving the provision
of subsidized infrastructure and on-farm investment credit, sometimes
accompanied by technical assistance with a variable degree of coordination
with TZ.
B. Agricultural Research
Institutional Aspects
2.16     Agricultural research in Turkey is characterized by fragmentation of
responsibilities among a bewildering array of public agencies, which creates
important institutional barriers in ensuring an efficient utilization of the
resources available for research.l/ Until recently, while responsibility for
most aspects of plant research was vested in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry, responsibility for research on all aspects of soils fertility and
management and irrigation lay within a separate Ministry of Village Affairs
with the General Directorate of Soil and Water Conservation (TOPRAKSU)
operating 10 research stations for that purpose. Since December 1983, both
1| During recent years, total agricultural research expenditures in Turkey
have represented 0.3-0.6% of agricultural GDP.



- 12 -
Ministries have been merged into MAFRA. Aside from TOPRAKSU, agricultural
research within MAFRA is apportioned between different General Directorates
along either commodity or subject matter lines. The research department of
GDAA carries out research for all annual and perennial crops except sugarbeet,
as well as for pastures, meadows and animal husbandry in a total of 33 active
research institutes hnd stations. GDPPQ operates nine plant protection
research institutes with responsibility for research on diseases, pests and
weed control for all crops except sugarbeet. The General Directorate of
Veterinary Affairs (GDVA) does some research primarily on animal diseases and
their control. Research on specialized crops such as sugarbeet, tobacco and
tea is carried out by the corresponding agencies (SEKER, TEKEL) in other
ministries. In addition, some limited agricultural research on various
subjects is carried out by the four agricultural faculties at Ankara
University, Ege University, Cukurova University and Ataturk University.
2.17     The difficulties in research planning and coordination which arise
from this fragmentation among general directorates and ministries are further
compounded by inadequate policy guidance and support at the national planning
level. Each of the agencies involved in agricultural research has a national
research council or committee which meets once a year in order to review the
findings of the previous year and decide upon research programs for the forth-
coming year.  In MAFRA, a Ministerial Research Board is in charge of approving
the decisions taken by the various Research Councils of the Ministry (GDAA,
GDPPQ, GDVA, etc.), and the State Planning Organization (SPO) controls the
final budget allocations for all ministries. Although this mechanism in
itself would permit to achieve some degree of coordination in research
planning and programs despite the prevailing fragmentation of responsibili-
ties, the lack of clearly formulated and coherent priorities at the national
level and the limited capability of both SPO and MAFRA for sectoral planning
result in a situation where each coordinating body tends to merely endorse the
programs which are submitted.
2.18     As a result, the various agencies involved in agricultural research
tend to carry out their own array of activities without coordination with
others, which leads to wasteful duplications. For instance, although the
agronomic research done by TOPRAKSU concerns mainly plant nutrition and
fertilization, it also gives attention to crop adaptation and variety testing
for irrigated areas, thus duplicating work done on GDAA's institutes and
stations.  Considerable duplication of research activities, st_ff and physical
resources also exist between other general directorates within MAFRA, in
particular GDAA and GDPPQ. At the field level, collaboration depends on
individual researchers and personal contacts, but is hampered in any case by
the high degree of centralization which prevails and the fact that researchers
belonging to GDAA and GDPPQ report to different general directorates with
different policies and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures.
2.19     Attempts have been made by Government to foster better collaboration
between research institutes belonging to different geineral directorates
through the creation of multidisciplinary research projects. This started in
1969 in the context of the National Wheat Program, in which research was to be
carried out by collaboration between GDAA, TOPRAKSU and GDPPQ. Some 30



- 13 -
additional national research projects were subsequently established, most of
which are commodity-specific (e.g. on maize, sunflower, legumes, tobacco,
vineyards, citrus, cattle production, etc.). Under these national research
projects, one research institute or station of GDAA is designated as the
leader, while other institutions such as GDPPQ and TOPRAKSU are expected to
collaborate in their respective field of expertise. A consultant from one of
the agricultural universities is also designated as research advisor for each
project. In reality, while under the wheat project improved collaboration was
achieved between GDAA and GDPPQ as well as, to a lesser extent, TOPRARSU, this
did not materialize in the more recent projects which tend to be carried out
entirely by GDAA.
2.20     Besides leading to duplications in research activities of various
agencies, the lack of clear guidelines on national research priorities also
creates a situation where agricultural research is implicitly expected to
cover all aspects of agricultural production and all crops and livestock
activities. Each agency thus tends to carry out a large number of research
projects on many different subjects, which results in a dilution of scarce
manpower and financial resources. Although this problem is general, its
extent varies with the internal structure of the various agencies involved in
research. It is exacerbated in the case of GDAA, as it has a large number of
research institutes and stations, each of which reports directly to the
central level. Although seven of the largest ones are designated as regional
research institutes, the definition of their regional responsibilities is
rather loose, and they do not have primary programming responsibility or full
technical control over smaller institutes or stations in the same agro-
ecological zone. Under the national research projects, field testing in
various locations is carried out by several of GDAA's institutes or stations
under the supervision of a national coordinator designated in the leading
research institute for the corresponding project. Nevertheless, each of
GDAA's institutes or stations retains in addition to these projects a high
number oE specific scattered research activities and on the whole the 33
research institutes and stations of GDAA work very much in isolation from each
other.  By contrast, both GDPPQ and TOPRAKSU research institutes have real
regional responsibilities and have achieved better coordination.
Staffing and Links with Outside Research Institutions
2.21     Besides the institutional problems described above, agricultural
research in Turkey is also seriously impeded by a lack of sufficient numbers
of highly trained professionals. Only 15% of GDAA's research staff have a PhD
or Master's degree, with the remaining 85% being graduate agricultural
engineers, i.e. having only the equivalent of a bachelor's degree with no
training in research methodology. This situation seems to have been
deteriorating over recent years, largely as a result of insufficient salary
incentives for the younger researchers to pursue their academic studies beyond
the bachelor's degree, as well as of attrition of advanced degree and
experienced staff in favor of the private sector where salaries are much more
attractive. The scarcity of research skills is exacerbated by their
dispersion among a large number of research stations.



- 14 -
2.22     Over the years, MAFRA's research institutes have developed good
contacts with a number of external research institutions.  Cooperative
research and training programs have involved CIMMYT, IRRI, ICARDA, ICRISAT,
IDRC, CIP, and some foreign universities. Nevertheless, in most research
institutes there is a dearth of information and publications about research
methods and results outside of Turkey which makes it very difficult for the
research personnel to keep abreast of developments in their fields of
specialization. As a result, research practices are often outdated and
inefficient (both in terms of time and reliability of results), experimental
procedures are not always sound and results obtained elsewhere are not
effectively utilized for local adaptation.
Current Research Activities of GDAA
2.23     GDAA's research institutes have succeeded in releasing a number of
new varieties for several crops, together with recommendations on fertilizer
application, plant density and timing of cultural operations for these
varieties, and a body of knowledge is available at the research institutes for
increasing crop and livestock productivity. However, the contribution made Ey
GDAA's research institutions to technolo,'y development has not been commen-
surate with its manpower and financial resources, and despite the large number
of research projects carried out by GDAA some important aspects tend to be
neglected. Although the determination of a comprehensive set of research
priorities would certainly require further analysis, including a careful
assessment of the main constraints to increased agricultural productivity, and
the identification of specific areas in which research can be expected to
contribute to removing such constraints, some gaps in GDAA's current research
activities can be tentatively identified at this stage.
2.24     One important feature is that the share of research resources devoted
to animal husbandry is far below the contribution of this subsector to
agricultural GDP. GDAA's 33 research institutes and stations deal mostly with
crop agriculture, with the exception of the Grassland and Animal Research
Institute at Ankara, which coordinates four national research projects on
respectively, grasslands, forages and large and small ruminant production.
This institute has developed improved varieties of vetch, sainfoin and alfalfa
for use in various agro-climatic zones of the county. It is also carrying out
research on rangeland improvement and animal production studies on subjects
such as the use of agricultural and industrial by-products for sheep and
cattle fattening or crossbreeding studies. In all other research institutes
or stations of GDAA, animal husbandry research is extremely limited. Outside
of GDAA, the research carried out by the veterinary services (GDVA) concerns
exclusively the preparation of vaccines and the diagnostic and control of
animal diseases. This relative neglect of animal husbandry research is the
result of the unclear distribution of responsibilities between GDAA and GDVA
and their lack of collaboration rather than a conscious policy decision.
2.25     The major thrust of current crop research by GDAA is on plant
improvement and breeding and the development and selection of new or adapted
varieties of various field and horticultural crops. With the exception of the
wheat research program in Central Anatolia, much less attention is paid to
research on improved cultivation practices. Virtually no research is done in
Turkey to develop farm machinery and equipment adapted to farm conditions and



- 15 -
suitable for the soils of different regions. Similarly, as the research is
mainly carried out along commodity-specific lines, little attention is paid to
cropping patterns and rotations. With the exception of the recently initiated
programs for fallow reduction and second crop, the interaction between
consecutive cr3ps through factors such as sail moisture, residual nutrients,
disease and weed control, and the effect of such interaction on yields are
rarely investigated, although this would not require any equipment beyond what
is presently available on the main stations. This leads to recommendations
which are not fully applicable on the farms and give only a very partial
answer to the farmers' needs.
2.26      More generally, although most of the agricultural research undertaken
by GDAA and other public agencies is of applied nature, investigations are
sometimes undertaken which have little relevance to practical situations in
the farms as a result of insufficient links with the extension service and
farming community.  Some of GDAA's research institutes carry out on-farm
research, whereby trial varieties are distributed to the farmers to find out
which new variety does best under the farmers' own conditions, or get involved
in distributing improved seeds to farmers together with some technical
advice. Such activities are, however, far from systematic and as they are
mostly undertaken without close collaboration with the TZ extension service
they remain very limited in scale. As a result, research findings are not
adequately tested under farmers' conditions, and little feedback takes place
from the farmers or the extension service to the research institutes. As
research pays little attention to the economics of farn management and the
acceptability of its recomnendations by farmers, recommendations on input use
for improved varieties are often based on biological rather than economical
optimums and the need for developing sub-optimal but simpler packages for
extension in a first step is overlooked in most cases. Similarly, nost trials
so far conducted on animal production have aimed at maximizing animal
responses (e.g. obtaining maximum liveweight gains per day), with less
attention paid to the use of low cost rations and other aspects of financial
significance to farmers. On the whole, the emphasis in agricultural research
is mainly on biological aspects of production, while agricultural economics is
neglected and matters such as farm management, marketing arrangements, price
policies, etc., are not adequately investigated.
C. Bank's Experience with Extension and Research in Turkey
2.27     A number of Bank-assisted projects in Turkey, already completed or
under implementation, have included an extension component as a support to
specific investments in infrastructure or farm development. In most cases a
special project extension unit was established independently from the existing
countrywide extension services,  This was first initiated in 1967 under the
Seyhan Irrigation Project Stage I (Credit 34-TU), followed by the Seyhan
Irrigation Project Stage It (Loan 587/Credit 143-TU), under which the training
and visit system of extension was introduced for the first time before being
extended to many Bank-supported projects in other countries. Similar
extension units were created in a number of subsequent Bank-assisted projects
in Turkey, such as the Fruit and Vegetables Export Project (Loan 762/Credit
257-TU), the Irrigat-on Rehabilitation and Completion Project (Credit
281-TU), the Ceyhan-Aslantas Multipurpose Project (Loan 883/Credit 360-TU),



- 16 -
the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (Loan 1130-rTU), and the Fruit and
Vegetable II Project (Loan 1967-TU). Under the more recent Erzurum Rural
Development Project (Loan 2094-TU), the focus of the extension component is a
strengthening and reorganization of the existing provincial TZ service rather
than the creation of a separate project unit.
2.28     Starting with the Seyhan project, the special extension units created
under the Bank-assisted projects have demonstrated the benefits which can be
derived from a systematic approach to extension involving, in particular, the
use of village level workers backed by more qualified staff, regular training
of all staff and concentration or extension activities rather than data
collection and other administra,ive tasks. While these units have had a
substantial immediate impact on agricultural production in their area of
operation, their long-term impact on institution building has started to
materialize only recently. After completion of phase II of the Seyhan project
in 1977, its extersion unit gradually faded away and despite its success the
Government did not attempt to apply its basic principles to restructure its
existing nationwide extension services. This failure to achieve a direct
institution building impact has been related to the fact that the Seyhan
extension unit was established in isolation from the existing extension system
and apart from the main lines of responsibility of the existing government
structure, so that it did not gain support from the ministries involved.l/
Although this weakness in design was apparent soon after the creation of the
Seyhan extension unit, similar units were established under subsequent
Bank-assisted projects as a practical solution to meet a pressing need for
extension in areas benefitting from investments in infrastructure and farm
development, at a time when Government was not committed to improving its own
extension service. This has changed during recent years, and the extension
component of the Erzurum Rural Development Project provides for improvements
of the Government's existing extension service. In 1982, the Government made
a decision to merge all existing project-specific extension units into the TZ
extension service and to strengthen and reorganize the latter nationwide along
the lines which have been successfully applied in Bank-assisted projects.
2.29     The experience gained under these projects also demonstrated the
importance of having efficient research services to support the extension
effort. This became apparent in Stage II of the Seyhan project when research
institutions were slow in recognizing the importance of the white fly epidemic
and in developing remedial action programs, which caused severe reductions in
cotton yields and agricultural incomes and weakened the credibility of the
extension service.  Weak links between research and extension also resulted in
the latter not being aware of existing findings concerning fruit and vegeta-
bles. Similarly, under the Fruit and Vegetables Export Project, the lack of
applied proven citrus research recommendations under Turkish conditions
hampered the extension efforts, and the need for building a solid applied
citrus research program geared to solving farmers' problems became apparent
and was included in the Fruit and Vegetable II Project.2/
1/  Turkey - Seyhan Irrigation Project Stage II, Completion Report, World
Bank, April 12, 1979.
2/ Turkey - Fruit and Vegetable Export Project, Project Performance Audit
Report, World Bank Report No. 4265, December 30, 1982.



- 1 7 -
2.30     Other lessons have been drawn by Government from experience under tlhe
Bank-assisted projects, in particular:
(a)  in the Corum-Cankiri project, political problems have arisen as
foremen, who are practicing farmers or farmers' sons of the -ame
village in which they work as extension agents, have been
unionizing and claiming full-time employment and civil service
benefits. It has also proved difficult in some cases to find
sufficiently qualified foremen for carrying out this job. Since
1980 the Government has decided to use formally-trained agricul-
tural technicians at the village level instead of foremen and to
compensate their lesser field experience by improved pre- and
in-service training.
(b)  The merging of the project-specific extension units into TZ has
initially resulted in a loss of momentum in extension activities
because of increased administrative pressures on the extension
staff. In particular, difficulties h.ave been experienced in
getting the provincial subject matter specialists actively
involved in training village technicians and foremen, due to
competing bureaucratic duties.  As a result of this experience,
GDAA has now explicitly included training responsibilities ia
their new job descriptions.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Rationale
3.01     The main objectives of the proposed project will be:
(a)  to foster increased productivity and agricultural incomes in the
project area, through Amprovement in the flow of information
between farmers and GJAA's extension/research services;
(b)  to contribute to institution-building of GDAA, the country's
largest agency for agricultural extension and research; and
(c)  to permit further testing and refinement of methods of
technology transfer to be ultimately extended to the whole
country.
3.02     Improvements in technology generation and transfer have bee,n
identified by the Bank as key priorities for further growth of the Turlkish
agricultural sector, and the Government has recently developed an increased
commitment to strengthening its extension and research capability accoTdingly
and has already taken a number of steps towards this end. The proposed
project is viewed by Government as the first of a series of projects which
will ultimately extend similar concepts to all 67 provinces of the country.
As shown by the nature of the problems identified in the preceding chapter,
the process of building up the extensiort and research services in Turkey will



- 18 -
require, in addition to investments in physical facilities and manpower
development, a number of institutional and organizational changes to be
accompanied by modifications in working patterns of the existing staff,
including in particular the separation of administrative from extension duties
within the extension service. Several years will be needed before such
changes are fully implemented, and the commitment to this undertaking will
have to extend much beyond the six-year implementation period of this first
project.
B. Project Scope
Project Design and Sectoral Context
3.03     The major thrust o' Zhis project wilL be on supporting Government's
ongoing efforts to improve the effectiveness of GDAA's extension service
(TZ). Support to agricultural research will be mainly limited to the measures
needed to improve the linkages with the extension service and to meet the
immediate needs of the latter in the project area. This relative imbalance is
not expected to cause problems in the short term, since technological informa-
tion already exists for extension to the farmers. However, in the medium or
long term the future viability of the extension service will depend on the
continuous availability of improved technology, which will require additional
eftforts to improve the overall effectiveness of apLicultural research in
Turkey. Considering the extreme fragmentation and complexity of agricultural
research organizations in Turkey, and the resulting dilution and waste of
resources, a broad-based support to agricultural research could not achieve
any meaniagful purpose until at least the initial steps are taken by Govern-
ment towards defining research priorities and consolidating the diverse
research programs and entities.l/ Under SAL IV, the Government has agreed to
establish an interrninisterial working group in charge of developing medium-
term plans in these areas. A substantial improvement has already been
accomplished by the recent merger of the former Ministry of Village Affairs
into MAFRA.  The development of further recommendations will be supported
under this project (para 3.42), which also includes a large program of
overseas training to upgrade the caliber of existing research staff
(para 3.40).
3.04     The proposed project will focus on the TZ extension service, in view
of its overriding size as well as of the steps already taken for its improve-
ment. Duplication exists in some specific locations with other extension
services, in particular with TOPRAKSU (in some irrigated areas) and SEKER (in
sugarbeet growing areas). Also, nationwide responsibility for extension on
plant protection and animal health matters is entrusted to separate agencies
outside of GDAA (respectively GDPPQ and GDVA). An ultimate goal to achieve
improved efficiency in the delivery of extension services would be to
consolidate all extension activities in a unified service. Under SAL IV, the
Government has agreed to establish a second working group towards this end,
and this will also be supported under the project (para 3.42). In the
1/ The importance of these factors is emphasized in a recent OED study based
on extensive cross-country experience (Strengthening Agricultural Research
and Extension - The World Bank Experience, World Bank Report No. 4684,
September 1, 1983).



- 19 -
meantime, as a first step in ov2rall upgrading of agricultural extension in
Turkey, this project will support TZ's reorganization and strengthening, with
provisions to ensure adequate coordination with other agencies through a
central coordination committee (para 4.02).
3.05     The effectiveness of the proposed project will depend on the adequate
availability of agricultural inputs and credit. Existing arrangemnents for
this purpose have proven generally satisfactory and will be utilized under the
project. Agricultural inputs are distributed partly by the private sector and
partly through the Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK), which is a State
Economic Enterprise under MAF.  During the past years, most inputs have been
a'ailable to the farmers as needed, with the exception of some specific types
of seeds (forages, hybrid vegetables and maize) which have been in short
supply. In order to imnprove this situation, the Government has decided since
1982 to allow the importation of such seeds in case of domestic shortages and
has agreed under SAL IV to encourage the involvement of the private sector and
foreign firms in their production. The recently revised seeds decree
(November 1983) largely frees the prices of certified seeds and high quality
cultivars in an attempt to attract joint venture seed producers. The
incremental credit needs which are expected to result from the intensification
of extension services under the project will be met by the Agricultura. Bank
(TCZB). The recently approved Agricultural Credit II Project (Loan 2318-TU)
includes funds for financing the estimated foreign exchange component of such
credit over a period of about four years in 10 of the 16 provinces of the
project area.
3.06     Government's policies influencing the farmgate price of inputs and of
crop and livestock commodities also have important consequences on the
operations of the ext-tision service and the financial attractiveness of the
proposed improveC technology packages. Until recently, a complex set of
incentives in thie form of input and interest rate subsidies, support prices
snd low water charges and cost recovery in irrigated areas have resulted in
distortions and misallocations of resources in Turkish agriculture. These
matters are being extensively discussed between Government and the Bank in the
context of the general sector dialogue and the structural adjustment and
project lending programs. Under SAL IV, the Government has agreed to continue
its policy of gradually reducing price supports and eliminating fertilizer
subsidies. Agreement las also been reached in connection with the Agricultural
Credit II Project (Loan 2318-TU) that real interest rates on agricultural
credit will gradually become positive, and the draft legal agreements for a
proposed IAEE Irrigation Project include provision for improved cost recovery,
which will support efforts of the extension service in promoting more
intensive use of irrigated land. Most importantly, the Government has agreed
under SAL IV to develop a medium-term planning capability for the agricultural
sector, which is expected to result in a clearer and more consistent
definition of national policies and program priorities in the sector.



- 20 -
Project Area
3.07     The project will provide support to the ongoing reorganization and
strengthening of GDAA's extension service in 16 provinces, together with
support to siX major research institutes of GDAA serving the project area. As
socioeconomic circumstances and systems of agriculture vary considerably
between the various zones of the project area, this wi'll permit evaluation and
refinement of the various m. jns of technology transfer adopted under the
project, and improvement in the design of future projects that are intended
for Turkey's remaining provinces.
3.08     The 16 project provinzes (see Map) are located in four main agro-
ecological zones:
(a)  Aegean/Marmara zone (lzmir, Manisa, Balikesir, Canakkale, Bursa,
parts of Denizli);
(b) Western trar,sitional zone (Kutahya, Afyon, Isparta, Burdur,
parts of Denizli);
(c)  Central Anatolian plateau (Eskisehir, Ankara, Konya);
(d) Southeast Anatolia (Diyarbakir, Urfa, Mardin).
Agriculture is relatively more developed and more commercialized in the
provinces of the Aegean/Marmara zone, although the situation varies widely
between counties and villages. The rest of the project area, particularly in
Southeast Anatolia and to a lesser extent the western transitional zone, is
comparatively less developed. The main characteristics of the project area
and its contribution to Turkish agriculture can be summarized as follows:
Turkey      Project Area
No. villages                                   35,997           10,370
No. farm families (million)                        3.1             1.2
Cultivated area (million ha)                      28.2            11.8
Of which:
Field crops                                    16.4             6.8
Fallow                                          8.2             3.6
Vegetable gardens                               0.6             0.2-0.3
Vineyard, orchards, special
tree crops (olives, nuts, etc.)                 3.0              1.1
Pastures and meadows (million ha)                 21.7             5.2i
Forest land (million ha)                          23.5             8.1
No. cattle (million head)                         15.9             3.4
No. sheep and goat (million head)                 67.7            23.4
Detailed data on meteorological and topographic features, land use and tenure,
and production and yields of various commodities in each of the 16 project
provinces can be found in the project's preparation report (Annex 11, Bl).



- 21 -
C. Project Concepts and Overall Description
3.09     The project will support two complementary and mutually reinforcing
approaches to agricultural extension and inform.ation transfer. The first
approach will be based essentially on personal contact between extension
agents and farmers and field demonstrations, along the lines which have been
successfully applied under extension components of previous Bank-assisted
projects and which are now endorsed by Government for nationwide application.
The TZ extension service will be strengthened and reorganized so as to
overcome the major shortcomings described in the preceding chapter (paras
2.04-2.10). AgricultL'ral technicians will be posted in selected villages
rather than the county towns in order to permit close contact with the
farmers, and each of them will be assigned responsibility for agricultural
extension over a given area usually encompassing several surrounding
villages. As each village group technician (VGT) will cover the whole range
of farming activities in his area, a whole farm approach will be adopted
rather than the commodity-specific approach which prevails at present. The
VGTs will undertake an intensive schedule of programmed farm visits, and they
will be closely supervised and regularly trained by subject matter specialists
(SMSs). Strong operational links will be established between the extension
staff and the six major research institutes which serve the project area so as
to ensure that the VGTs are adequately supplied with appropriate techlology
for improving crop and livestock production. While TZ will retain its current
administrative, regulatory and record-keeping duties, the VGTs and SMSs will
be relieved from most of them as they will be entrusted to separate staff
identified for that purpose at both the county and province levels.
3.10     This essentially labor-intensive extension method will be supple-
mented by a second approach to information transfer based on the use of mass
communication and audiovisual aids. Little systematic use of these for
agricultural extension has been made up to now in Turkey, with the exception
of the National Wheat Program in the early 1970s. Under the proposed project,
an Extension Information Center (EIC) will be established at the central leve'L
and some of its staff stationed at the research institutes, so as to ensure
adequate dissemination of existing information, the preparation of well
designed and relevant audiovrisual materials for use by TZ staff and coordina-
tion with the Turkish Radio and Television service (TRT) for the programming
and preparation of raoio and television broadcasts. Audiovisual aids and mass
media will be used throughout the project area as a ccmplement to or partial
substitute for direct contact between extension agents and farmers, and these
two approaches will be closely integrated so as to achieve maximum efficiency.
3.11     As this project is the firpt full-scale extension project directed at
improving the nationwide TZ extension service, particular attention will be
paid to assessing the relative effectiveness of these two extension approaches
in various parts of the country, for various groups of farmers and/or various
types of technical information to be disseminated. Similarly, the relative
effectiveness of the different types of mass media and of various ways of
transferring technology through direct contact between extension agents and
the farming community will be tested under the project.



- 22 -
3.12     The support provided to the six major research institutes serving the
project area will aim at strengthening their applied and adaptive research on
commodities and farmning systems of importance in t-he project area so as to
foster the development of improved technology packages for further transfer to
'1Z and the farmers. Under the project, the linkages between these research
institutes and TZ will be reinforced, an expanded program of field trials will
be undertaken by the researchers in close collaboration with the TZ staff, and
research will focus on problems which are of immediate consequence to farmers
in the project area in order to develop technologies which are both practical
and financially rewarding for the farmers in the context of their whole farm
system of land use.
3.13     A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capability will be established
under the project so as to assist its management in ensuring timely physical
irnplementation and in adjusting the design of this and future similar projects
in light of the experience gained during the early years of implementation.
M&E will be carried out in such a way as to ensure that feedback from the
farming community is take.: into account in the extension and research activi-
ties, and that lessons can be drawn on the relative effectiveness of various
methods of technology transfer under different socioeconomic circumstances.
The project will be further supported by a substantial program for local and
overseas training of research and extension staff, as well as by provisions
for consultants as needed to supplement local expertise during early
implementation.
D. Detailed Features
Technology Transfer
3.14     Reorganization and strengthening of the TZ extension service.  Under
the extension system which will be adopted in the project, mul.tipurpose
agricultural technicians ,osted in selected villages (village group
technicians, VGTs) will be the major contact points between farmers and the
rest of TZ and GDAA. This approach has been successfully adopted under
previous projects, and is suited to the conditions prevailing in most parts of
the country, where large numbers of farmers with a low level of education
still use systems of husbandry and materials ihat are inappropriate for
today's need for more intensive forms of land use. The main role of the VGTs
will be to dibseminate information on available improved technology and to
assist farmers with different resources in tailoring it to suit their
particular needs. Strong backup will be provided by teams of subject mnatter
specialists (SMSs) to assist VGTs in this task. Adjustments to this system
wi:l be made in some of the more developed counties of the project area, vilere
the relative density of VGTs will be decreased, and the SMS teams reinforced
by additional SMSs as needed to allow them to answer directly  4ueries from the
more advanced farmers.
3.15     Each VGT will be assigned responsibility for agricultural extension
over a given area, the size of which will be determi.ned by land-use practices,
topography, distances between villages, current stage of agricultural develop-
ment and number of farm families. For indicative planninn. purposes, VGTs will
be allocated at the ratio of 1:250 farmers where irrigated farming practices
predominate, while in areas of more extensive agricultural production, the



- 23 -
ratio will vary around 1:550-650 farmers, although it could be as high as
1:1,000 farmers in counties where modern farming systems are widely adopted.
Adjustments will be made within the village and county boundaries. Within his
assigned area, a VGT will concentrate initially on the more important
agricultural crops, but this will always be done in full recognition of the
overall system of land-use adopted in the area. Attention will be focussed on
practices likely to bring the best economic results, such as seed bed
preparation, seed treatment, spacing, weeding, efficient fertilizer use and
timeliness of operations, while in livestock agriculture, emphasis will be on
the production, conservation and use of forages duriug periods of feed
deficit, together with the feeding and management of calves.
3.16     Systematic contacts between VGTs and farmers will be organized in
such a fashion that as wide a range of farmers as possible can be reached. A
number of farmers within a VGT's area of operation will be identified as
"contact farmers" and will be regularly visited by the VGT on a fixed schedule
known by other farmers who will be encouraged to join and participate. On
each visit, the VGT will visit the contact farmer's fields and herds, discuss
and if possible demonstrate innovations aimed at increasing farm productivity,
check progress made in adopting previous recommendations and observe any
technical problems the farmers may be having. The identification and selec-
tion of contact farmers will be made by the VGT with assistance from more
senior TZ personnel and in close consultation with village leaders and will be
based on criteria such as their potential influence on the farming community,
their willingness to collaborate with the extension service, the need to
represent various categories of farmers with varying needs and resources,
etc. The suitability of the identified contact farmers as channels for
disseminating information to the rest of the farming community will be
carefully monitored, and replacements will be made when needed. Under the
project, the effectiveness of various methods of designating the contact
farmers will be tested, such as the designation of fixed contact farmers over
the years or a systematic rotation of contact farmers amongst members of the
farming community after one or two cropping seasons. Similarly, the
possibility of using some of the contact farmers more systematically to assist
VGTs in their extension work with appropriate compensation may be examined in
specific locations. In deciding on the application of such variants in
particular counties and provinces the opinions and suggestions of the local TZ
staff will be actively sought by project management.
3.17     Other extension techniques will be used as a complement to the
systematic visits of contact farmers by VGTs. Meetings of groups of farmers
will be organized, in particular during times of the year when there is little
agricultural activity, and the VGTs will take advantage of existing farmers'
associations such as village cooperatives and of traditional institutions such
as the tea house which allow them to meet and talk to the majority of farmers
in anv village at one time.   The extent of such activities will depend upon
the village, the time of the year as well as the type of technological
improvement to be promoted. For instance, group action in the context of a
whole village approach may take particular importance in areas where
agriculture is largely based on systems of livestock production which rely
heavily on communal use of fallow and grazing lands for several months of the
year, and where as a consequence any attempt at improving grassland production
or animal health standards on an individual basis would be frustrated.



- 24 -
3.18     The VGTs will carry out their extension activities with village
farmers on four fixed days each week that will be chosen in recognition of
market days and those other days when farmers are not freely available on
their holdings. On the fifth day in each week, VGTs will either attend
training sessions conducted by SMSs or they will devote their time to
administrative and organizational matters. Within this framework, precise
schedules for VGTs activities will be drawn up and strictly adhered to in all
the provinces of the project area. Although these schedules, as well as the
number of contact farmers assigned to each VGT, will vary depending on the
circumstances in different areas, for indicative planning purposes it is
expected that on average about 40 contact farmers will be selected within the
area assigned to a VGT and that his scheduled program of activities will
include visits to 5-10 contact farmers per day on four fixed days each week,
with adjustments according to the agricultural season. It is also expected
that on one fixed day every fortnight, VGTs will attend an intensive training
session provided by county group SMSs (para 3.20).
3.19     The VGTs will be administratively attached to the county TZ office.
The County Agricultural Engineer (CAE) at the head of TZ county office will
retain his present functions and be responsible for management and supervision
of the extension program in his county. He will be assisted in the latter
task by an additional agricultural engineer (AE) who will be specifically
responsible for supervising the VGTs in the county. In each county office, a
team of about three agricultural technicians will be assigned to assist the
CAE in carrying out administrative functions, so as to ensure that VGTs and
AEs will be effectively relieved of these tasks and will focus on cxtension
work.
3.20     Technical support to the extension work of the VGTs and AEs will be
provided by teams of SMSs which will serve a group of about 50-80 extension
workers each, or on average 4-6 counties, and will be posted in one of these
counties. Typically, each such county group SMS team would be composed of 4
SMSs specialized respectively in field crops, horticulture, animal husbandry
and plant protection. Their main responsibility will be to organize regular
and intensive fortnightly training sessions for VGTs, which will also be
attended by the AEs and, on oceasion, CAEs and will concern groups of not more
than 20-30 extension workers at a time. These training sessions will
concentrate on activities to be undertaken by VGTs with contact farmers in the
forthcorning two-week period, and will involve field visits in order to plan
and implement demonstrations. They will also embrace the progress being made
in adoption rate surveys, yield surveys (para 3.35), field trials (para 3.32)
and other activities in progress by GDAA, so that VGTs may obtain stature in
the community they serve not only on the grounds of their technical knowledge,
but also of their awareness of and contact with other activities. The
organization of training sessions will allow adequate time for a two-way flow
of information. As the county group SMSs will be in close contact with
research (para 3.26), they will expose VGTs to the ideas and practices being
formulated at researcb: institutes, as well as act as conduits for exposing
research institutes to farming problems brought forward by VGTs.



- 25 -
3.21     The provincial TZ director will have overall responsibility for
imnplementation of the extension program in his province. The existing
specialist sections at the provincial level will be separated in two groups
with one support services group reporting to the deputy to the TZ director in
charge of administrative matters and one group responsible for technical
matters (provincial SMS team) reporting to the other deputy to the TZ
director, who will deal full-time with extension. The provincial SMS team
will consist of generally eight SMSs who typically would be specialized
respectively in field crops, horticulture, livestock, forage crops, plant
nutrition and water management, mechanization, household e.:conomics, and
information/training. Additional specialist support at the provincial level
will be provided by staff from other agencies, in particular GDPPQ and GDVA as
well as, in some cases, TOPRAKSU and LDP. The provincial SMS team will be
responsible for developing, under the guidance of the central SMS team (para
3.23), a technical strategy for the province and for ensuring high quality in
the VGTs training sessions conducted by the county group SMS teams.
Provincial SMS will participate as needed in these training sessions in view
of their particular fields of specialization, which mostly concern disciplines
not represented in the county group SMS team.
3.22     All county group and provincial SMSs will participate systematically
in monthly training workshops which will be undertaken both at the research
institutes and in the provinces. For indicative planning purpose, each SMS
will attend on average one of these monthly training workshops in each quarter
(i.e. four per year) at oi.A of the six research institutes included in the
project. The research institutes' directors, assisted by research coordina-
tors (para 3.33), will be responsible for these workshops, which will be of
2-3 days duration each and will be organized on a regional basis for groups of
15-20 SMSs of similar field of specialization. The main purpose of these
workshops held at research institutes will be to provide a channel for the
transfer -f technology from the research to the extension service and for
upgrading the technical competence of provincial and county-group SMSs in
their particular field of specialization. The other monthly workshops for
SMSs will be held in the provinces under the responsibility of the provincial
TZ directors, who will liaise closely with the corresponding regional team of
central SMSs (para 3.23) and with research institute directors in regard to
the content and conduct of these provincial workshops. For indicative
planning purposes, it is considered that one workshop in each quarter (i.e.
four per year) will be held on a provincial basis with the participation of
all SMSs regardless of their specialization in order to pursue provincial
policies on farm improvement, with special emphasis being placed on the whole
farm system and on in-service training on subjects such as extension methods,
farm budgeting and decision-making, inputs and marketing, etc. These
workshops would be used to promote collaboration among SMSs of different
specializations and a whole farm approach. The third workshop in each
quarter, also held on a provincial basis, would be more of a technical nature
and commodity oriented, and associated with visits to farmers and on-farm
trials, with attendance from some researchers, university staff, etc. The
participation of research workers in this latter type of workshop will
complement the technology transfer function of the workshops organized at the
research institute by allowing the researchers to explain and demonstrate
their recommendations in the particular context of a given province or county.



- 26 -
3.23     At the central level, the head of the Extension Department of GDAA
will oversee the extension operations of the provincial lTZ offices. The
present organization of this Department, which is strictly commodity-specific,
will be modified so as to foster an approach to extension based on regional
land-use systems. Some of the existing staff will be reorganized into four
regional multidisciplinary teams, each of which will comprise about six SMSs
and will be responsible for one of the four main agro-ecological zones of the
project area. These central SMS teams will develop a technical strategy for
each agro-ecological zone of the project area, and will supervise and provide
technical support to the provincial SMS teams. They will make frequent field
visits, and will participate in the SMS workshops held at research institutes
and occasionally in the SMS workshops in the provinces and in the VGTs
training sessions.
3.24     Audiovisual Aids and Mass Media.  In order to strengthen the capacity
of GDAA to use audiovisual materials and mass communication methods, an
extension information center (EIC) will be established in Ankara, which will
(i) assemble a library of existing information from Turkey and abroad of
interest to extension workers, abstract and disseminate such information to
TZ, (ii) prepare and produce audiovisual aids (leaflets, technical bulletins,
slides, movies, posters, video-films, etc.) for use by VGTs in farmers'
training and by SMSs in VGTs' training, and (iii) coordinate the use of mass
media for general information to farmers, particularly of radio and TV
broadcasts and newspaper items. The EIC, which will administratively be
located under the GDAA or his deputy in charge of extension, will collaborate
with the national documentation center (TURDOK), the Turkish radio and
television service (TRT) and the film, radio and television center of the
Ministry of Education (FRT).  It will comprise a total staff of 50-60 people,
of which "20-.5 will be professionals in part drawn from existing staff at
GDAA's headquarters.
3.25     One information coordinator belonging administratively to the EIC
will be stationed at each of the research institutes supported by the project
as part of the team of extension coordinators (para 3.26). He will assist
with the organization of the SMS workshops held at research institutes by
providing audiovisual aids when needed and coordinating the contributions of
the various researchers involved in the workshops. He will also act as a main
channel for ensuring that informatior. on feasible innovations available at the
various research institutes serving the project area are communicated to the
EIC aiad rapidly reach the farming community, and that the information/training
provincial SMS are supplied with adequate audiovisual materials. With the
assistance of the information/training provincial SMSs and under the guidance
of the EIC and the researchers, the information coordinator will produce
slides, film strips, video films and other materials of local relevance and
will coordinate with the local press and with TRT's regional offices for the
production of local radio talks and TV programs.
3.26     Extension-Research Links.  Under the project, regular contacts will
be maintained between TZ's provincial and county group SMSs and the research
institutes through the workshops for SMSs held at research institutes and the
participation of researchers in some of the SMS workshops held in the
provinces and the associated field visits. Provincial and county group SMSs



- 27 -
will also be closely associated to the conduct and implementation of field
trials under the responsibility of researchers (para 3.32). In order to
facilitate communication between research and extension scaff, a team of four
or more extension coordinators belonging to the extension service will be
stationed permanently at each research institute supported by the project.
Typically the team of extension coordinators in a given research institute
will consist of one information coordinator, one farm management economist and
two or more commodity specialists who will act mainly as field trial coordina-
tors for the main commodities of the region. The extension coordinators' role
will be to (i) facilitate the conduct of field trials in close collaboration
between research and extension, (ii) participate with researchers in the
formulation of practical technology packages suitable for release to TZ, (iii)
assist researchers in the conduct of training workshops for SMSs held at
research institutes, and (iv) assist SMSs in relaying farmers' problems to
research workers in such a way that the latter develop an increasing concern
for the relevance of their work to the farmers' needs. Extension coordinators
will be drawn from experienced extension and research staff.
3.27     Investments and Incremental Operating Costs.  To permnit the above
aevelopments, provisions are made in the project for:
(a) recruitment of about 400 agricultural engineers and 900
agricultural technicians for staffing the extension service,
together with other professionals (translators, photographers,
video and graphic specialists, etc.) and support staff as needed
for the EIC. (Details in Annexes 5, 6 and IlC.) The project
provides for incremental salaries and travel allowances to permit
an expanded program of field visits;
(b) construction of some 1,600 village housing units to allow
existing and incremental VGTs to be deployed in the villages.
Complementary housing is also provided for county staff and
agricultural engineers at the county group and provincial levels
so as to attract and retain qualified staff despite the
relatively low civil service salaries and the resulting
competition from the private sector. Provisions are also made
for some additional offices for TZ in the provinces and counties
and for a building for the EIC. (Details in Annexes 7 and llC.);
(c) provision of some 1,650 motorcycles, 730 pickups and station
wagons and 30 minibuses to give adequate mobility to the staff of
the TZ field offices, extension coordinator teams and EIC,
together with recruitment of some 580 drivers to permit use of
these vehicles. (Details in Annexes 8 and llC.);
(d) purchase of equipment for the IC and of complementary
audiovisual equipment for the TZ field offices;
(e)  purchase of some specialized agricultural equipment for the TZ
provincial offices, as needed to compleument standard equipment
which can be borrowed or rented from the farmers for field
demonstrations;



- 28 -
(f)  provisions for incremental operating costs, including O&M of
incremental vehicles and equipment, building upkeep and
maintenance, inputs and machinery rental for demonstrations,
guest speakers for the monthly SMS workshops, etc.
3,28     The mobility of the TZ staff is presently constrained not only by the
lack of vehicles and drivers, which will be remedied under the project, but
also by cumbersome bureaucratic procedures which require them to get several
official authorizations at the county and provincial levels each time they
need to travel outside of their county of residence on official business.
Under the project all provincial and county group SMSs would be allowed to
travel within their province of assignment and to the regional research
institutes as needed to perform their duties, with the sole consent of their
direct supervisor within TZ as is the case presently for staff of other
government agencies (GDPPQ, TOPRAKSU, etc.) which have a regionally based
organization. Similarly, problems have been encountered under previous
projects in authorizing agricultural technicians to drive heavy motorcycles
requiring a driver's license. Considering the need for mobility of the VGTs
between different villages and the distances involved, heavy motorcycles will
be required in much of the project area. Under the project, VGTs will be
equipped with heavy motorcycles when needed, and measures would be taken for
adequate insurance and authorization to .rive them to perform their work.
Research and Developnent
3.29     Four of the six selected research institutes of GDAA supported under
the project will assume regional responsibility for serving the needs of the
neighboring provinces of the project area: the Middle Anatolia research
institute (which will serve the provinces of Ankara and Konya), the Eskisehir
research institute (Eskisehir, Afyon, Isparta, Burdur, Kutahya), the Aegean
research institute (Denizli, Izmir, Manisa, Balikesir, Canakkale, Bursa) and
the Southeast Anatolia research institute (Diyarbakir, Urfa, Mardin). These
four institutes, all located in the project area, presently deal with most
major crops within their region and will be the major source of crop tech-
nology for the extension staff under the project. The Mediterranean regional
agricultural research institute, although located outside of the project area,
will also be supported by the project in view of its current responsibility
for technical support to the Aegean and Southeast Anatolia research institutes
for research on multiple cropping in irrigated areas. The sixth research
institute supported by the project is the Grassland and Animal Husbandry
research institute (GAHRI), located in Ankara, which will have regional
responsibilities for livestock matters in the provinces otherwise covered by
the Middle Anatolia and Eskisehir research institutes and will provide
technical support to the Aegean and Southeast Anatolia research institutes
which have limited facilities and staff for livestock investigations.
3.30     Under the project, these six major institutes will collaborate as
needed with other institutions providing agricultural research services to the
provinces of the project area.  This includes a number of commodity-specialized
research institutes of GDAA located either in the project area or in its



- 29 -
vicinity, some of which are being strengthened under other ongoing Bank-
assisted projects, as well as research institutes of GDPPQ and TOPRAKSU.
3.31     Details on present facilities, staff and research programs of the six
institutes supported by the project can be found in the project's preparation
report (Annex 11, B1), together with a description of the main research
findings and the resulting improved technology packages which have already
been developed and will constitute the basis of extension recommendations
during the early years of project implementation. Under the project, the
agronomic research capabilities of these research institutes will be
strengthened so as to permit more research to be conducted on practical ways
of improving the plant environment (e.g. cultural methods, fertility, etc.) to
permit full expression of the genetic potential of the improved varieties
which are being developed. In animal husbandry investigations, emphasis will
be placed on forage crops production and use (including harvesting and
conservation techniques as well as the development of improved cultivars) and
on maximizing the use of crop residues and industrial by-products for animal
feeding (including improvements of their feed value and development of cheap
means of conservation). The planning of specific research activities within
this broad program, as well as the interpretation of the results to formulate
technological packages, will take into account aspects such as the economic
importance of the production activity considered in the region and the motives
of the farmers for undertaking such activity, the scale on which this activity
is prac.iced by the farmers, the interaction between consecutive crops within
a rotation, etc. Economists and farm management specialists will be fully
integrated in the Lesearch teams for the various commodities.
3.32     Under the project, researchers will undertake an expanded program of
field trials in various locations outside of the research institute, either in
substations or other government land or on farmers' fields, so as to allow
proper testing of the recommended technological packages under various
agroecological conditions and in various scales before release of the research
findings to the extension service. The field trials will be conducted under
the responsibility of the researchers who will lay out the experimental
procedures and interpret the results. They will be assisted with the
implementation and supervision of such trials by the members of the team of
extension coordinators stationed at the research institutes, and in particular
by the commodity specialists of such teams who will act primarily as field
trial coordinators with the collaboration of the provincial and county group
SNSs.  In this fashion, the conduct of field trials will expose researchers to
farmers' needs and as SMSs will become actively involved in field experimental
work, their extension and technical capability will be strengthened.
3.33     At each of the six research institutes, one or more experienced
scientist will be designated by the institute's director as research
coordinator and will be vested with responsibility for (i) aTising the
director in the definition of research programs and priorities and ensuring
that they are relevant to the whole farm needs of the region; (ii) coordi-
nating research work and findings and guiding the formulation by researchers
and extension coordinators of practical technology packages for release to the
extension service; (iii) guiding the conduct of the program of field trials



- 30 -
and obtaining assistance from extension workers for this task; and (iv)
obtaining help from other researchers and from the extension coordinators for
the training of SMSs. It is expected that two research coordinators will be
designated at GAHRI, one for forage crops and the other for animal husbandry
work, and that in other research institutes, one or more research coordinators
will be designated for major commodities/group of commodities. One research
coordinator will also be designated at each of the other research institutes
or stations of GDAA or other organizations (GDPPQ, TOPRAKSU) which serve the
project area. The designated research coordinator at such institutes will be
the main contact for enabling the research and extension staff directly
involved in the project to draw on the particular knowledge of more
commodity-oriented or specialized research institutes.
3.34     In order to achieve the objectives described above, the project
includes investment and incremental operating costs at six existing research
institutes, with the following main elements (details in Annex llC):
(a)  recruitment of about 100 researchers, together with additional
support staff, with provision for incremental salaries as well as
travel allowances to permit the conduct of an expanded program of
field trials and participation in SMS workshops in the provinces;
(b)  construction of facilities such as dormitories, conference rooms
and cafeterias to permit the conduct of SMS workshops, together
with additional research facilities and housing for some of the
researchers and extension coordinators as an incentive for
attracting and retaining qualified staff in these functions;
(c)  purchase of a total of about 70 vehicles (station wagoas,
pickups, trucks, buses, etc.) and of additional farm equipment
and machinery to carry out applied research at the research.
institute and by field trials;
(d)  purchase of additional laboratory and audiovisual equipment and
provisions for subscription to scientific periodicals and books;
(e)  incremental operating costs, including vehicles and equipment
O&M, building upkeep and maintenance, and inputs for field trials.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.35     The M&E system of the project will provide a management information
service to assist with efficient and effective implementation (internal M&E)
and assemble and assess data to assist with the formulation of policy
decisions and with the design of future similar projects (external M&E). The
internal M&E system being a management function, it will be essentially
county- and province-based and it will be carried out by TZ staff. In the
first year of project implementation, a data collection and record keeping
system will be designed, which will be similar in the various counties and
provincer of the project area. At the county level, the administrative group
responsible to the CAE will undertake the routine assembly of monitoring data



- 31 -
on project operations and will prepare brief reports highlighting
achievements, problems and anomalies for consideration by the CAE. In
addition, they will undertake simple adoption rate surveys for assessing the
effects of the project on the farmning community. At the province level, the
engineers of the economics and statistics section of the support services
group will be responsible for internal M&E. They will provide the county
staff involved in M&E with technical guidance and support, and will undertake
yield surveys on a restricted number of crops in order to determine if the
innovations being promoted under the project are resulting in higher yields or
increased benefits of another nature under farm conditions.  When necessary,
yield surveys will be augmented by case studies designed to investigate in
depth any problems or anomalies that have been experienced in the field. At
the central level in Ankara, the internal M&E systemn will be serviced by staff
identified within GDAA's Departments of Economics and Statistics, and of
Technical Cooperation and Coordination, together with additionally recruited
personnel.  The central internal M&E group will report to the project's
national coordinator (para 4.02), wthom they will periodically present with a
summary of problems, issues and recommendations for project improvement in the
field. They will collate and summarize the information on progress with
project implementation and operations in the provinces, and will maintain data
obtair.nn over timne from adoption rate and yieLd surveys as an aid to
evaluating the benefits derived by farmers from adopting innovations promoted
by the project.
3.36     The external M&E will be carried out by the small M&E group recently
created within GDAA's Department of Technical Cooperation, which will be
strengthened for this purpose by additional staff. Initially, the external
M&E group will assist in field staff training for internal M&E and in the
design of data collection systems, adoption rate surveys and yield surveys.
As project implementation progresses, it will undertake or commission special
studies relevant to thc project in order to yield information that will assist
with the formulation of new policies and programs for developing crop and
livestock agriculture. For example, it is anticipated that during progress of
the project studies will be pursued on subjects such as the ratio of VGTS to
farmers in various parts of the project area, the impact of television and
radio on agricultural development, the relative values of the contact farmer
approach as compared to the whole village approach. etc. The need for studies
related to availability of credit and to marketing opportunities or rural
transportation may also arise as a result of project operations. In its
evaluation activities, the external M&E group will use, whenever possible,
data collection systems that are aLready established within GDAA or elsewhere.
3.37     Incremental staff to be recruited under the project for the M&E
component will consist of a total of some 8 professional staff at headquarters
together with some 36 enumerators. Provisions are also made in the project
for the purchase of vehicles for use by the M&E groups at headcquarters and of
office equipment, calculators and minicomputers, together with adequate funds
for operation and maintenance, as well as for the subcontracting of special
studies by the external M&E group to other agencies in Turkey.



- 32 -
Training
3.38     In-service training.  During the first year of project implementa-
tion, an intensive program of orientation for all staff to be involved in the
project will be undertaken, and staff joining after this time will likewise be
fully informed of the project's concepts and organization. For indicative
planning purposes, it is expected that each engineer and VGT of the TZ service
in the 16 project provinces will attend an orientation training session of
about one week. Orientation of the TZ provincial directors and senior staff
from the TZ provincial offices will be organized by the headquarters staff of
GDAA's department of extension, with attendance from other staff involved in
the project, such as the directors of the research institutes and some of
their senior staff and the members of the M&E groups, as well as key
government officials whose support to the project will be essential (e.g.
provincial governors) and key members of related institutions such as GDPPQ,
GDVA, LDP, TOPRAKSU, etc. Thereafter, orientation of the county and village
TZ staff would be conducted by the provincial TZ directors/SMSs under guidance
of GDAA's headquarters staff, and the VGTs would in turn undertake orientation
of farmers through village meetings.
3.39     After the initial orientation period, a variety of in-service/
refresher training courses will be offered throughout the project period for
extension staff as needed to complenent the fortnightly VGTs training sessions
and the monthly SMS workshops. For indicative planning purposes, each
agricultural engineer in TZ would attend such refresher training for about one
week each year, while VGTs would benefit from a one-week course once every
three years. The refresher courses will be organized at selected agricultural
universities, research stations, specialized agencies like GDPPQ and TOPRAKSU,
etc., and will deal with technical subjects as well as agricultural extension
and communications methods. In order to ensure quality and relevance of the
in-service training programs, the cost estimates include provision for hiring
the services of local experts for the design of the training curricula.
Agricultural faculties serving the project area (i.e. Ankara University, Ege
University and Cukurova University) will be associated in curriculum design,
as well as participate as guest speakers for particular training sessions.
In-service training for the staff of the Extension Information Center will be
organized in collaboration with TURDOK (national documentation center), FRT
(film, radio and television center of the Ministry of Education) and TRT
(Turkish radio and television service).
3.40     overseas training.  The project will support an extensive program of
overseas training-for extension, M&E and research staff as follows (details in
Annex llC);



- 33 -
MSc             Short-term          Study
Fellowships         Fellowships         Tours
(2 yrs. each)      (0-6 mos. ea.)   (1 mo. ea.)
----(No.)----          - No. L,an-months-------
TZ extension service                30                   -              150
Erc                                  2                  40               10
M&E                                  6                 108                -
Research                           136                 202
Total                            174                 350              160
Staff benefitting from such training will be required to stay within GDAA
after their return for at least twice the period of time spent overseas. The
large overseas training program for researchers will contribute to alleviating
the current lack of qualified research staff in GDAA. By the end of the
project implementation period about one-third of GDAA 's research staff will
have an advanced degree, as compared to 15% at present. In addition, the
project provides for short-term fellowships for researchers to learn a
specific research technique, to visit key research institutions or attend
international research conferences. In view of the extensive overseas
training program, its adm:nistration will require the assistance of an outside
organization acceptable to the Bank, such as FAO or ISNAR, with broad inter-
national contacts for ensuring the placement of the trainees at suitable
outside universities and the payment of tuition, lodging and travel expenses
while abroad.
Technical Assistance and Studies
3.41     A total of 100 manmonths of consultant services will be provided for
direct support of the project operations. This includes a long-term extension
consultant for a period of 24 manmonths, who should be in position about three
months ahead of the start of the project's orientation program and will be
assisted during early implementation of the project by two short-term
consultants for periods of three manmonths each; an additional six manmonths
is included for additional short-term extension consultants as needed later
during project implementation. To assist with the internal M&E, a consultant
will be appointed early during the first year of project implementation for a
period of 12 manmonths (8 manmonths in PYI, and 2 in each of PY2 and PY3); a
further 4 manmonths will be provided for a consultant to develop the external
M&E component (2 manmonths in each of PY2 and PY3). Starting in the first
year of project implementation, a media expert will be provided for 2 years
and a documentation specialist for 1 year in order to assist with the initial
operations of the EIC. A total of 12 manmonths ie also pzovided under the
project for short-term consultancies as needed to assist in research
activities. Terms of reference for the consultants to the project are
detailed in Annex 11, C2. The project will also include 48 manmonths of
English language instructors in order to provide language training for staff
going abroad to English speaking institutions.



- 34 -
3.42     A further 8 manmonths of technical assistauce will be provided in
order to assist the working groups on research and extension orgarnization,
which the Government has agreed to establish under SAL IV (paras 3.03-3.04),
in carrying otit some aspects of their terms of reference. In view of the
intended future extension of this project to the whole country and to agencies
other than GDAA and considering the staffing and training problems faced by
various technical agencies of MAFRA, the terms of reference of these workir.g
groups will also include an assessment of MAFRA's medium-term training and
manpower requirements. Terms of reference for the working groups on research
and extension are outlined in Annex 10. A further two manmonths of technical
assistance are included in the project for assistance in the preparation of
repeater projects.
E. Project Cost
3.43     The total project cost is estimated to be US$205.7 million equivalent
(including some US$8.0 million in taxes), of which some US$82.2 million, or
about 40%, is direct and indirect foreign exchange. The base cost represents
the estimated cost of investment and initial operation, including incremental
staff salaries, during 'he six-year (April 1984-March 1990) project implemen-
tation period, in becember 1983 terms (exchange rate US$1=TL 270). Physical
contingencies of 10% have been added for building construction costs. Price
contingencies between January 1984 and the end of the project implementation
per_od are estimated at US$32.3 million equivalent, or about 19% of base cost
plus physical contingencies. They have been applied to both lo"al and foreign
costs in US$ terms at the following annual rates: 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985
and 6.0X annually for subse4quent years.  By measuring both foreign and local
price contingencies in US$ equivalents, it has been assumed in line with the
Government's policy that the lira exchange rate would change so as to offset
the inflation differential between Turkey and its major trading partners. The
lira has been devalued roughly in accordance with this pattern since 1980 and
is now adjusted daily on a crawling-peg system. The base project cost
includes about USt1.3 million for 110 man-months of consultants' services at
an average estimated total cost of US$12,150 per man-month including fees,
travel and subsistence allowances.  A summary of the project cost by
functional component is given in Table 3.1 with a breakdown by type of
expenditure in Annex 1 and further details in Annex 11, Cl.



- 35 -
Table 3.1; PRGOECT OOST SMR"L.
(TL Miillion)             (USS Milliorn)
-------------------------  ---------------------  % Foreisn   Z Total
Local   Forpign   Total    LoctPl  Foreidr, Total   Exchange   Base Costs
A. EXTENSION SFRVICE
1, BUILD, VEH A EGUIP (INV,)               14,185.2  79142.M  21,328.0    57.6    9A h4  79.0          33.9        47.!
2. TNrR STAFF I nPfR COSTS                  RWR91.3  4,203.9 13#09S.?    32.9    1S.A   4R.5           32.1  
qiih-Tnt.al EXTFNRllN RFRUT8F                 73#07A.9 11,34A.7 34.473,2    89.9    4?.0  12775           33.0         7A.7
B. EXTFNSTON TNFOlRMATION (FNTFR
1. BUILD, VEH & EQUIP (INV.)                  125.7    182.4    308.1       0.5     0.7    1.1         99.?         0.7
7. TNrR STAFF A lPFR COSTS                    401.9    453.6    85S.1       1.9      1.7    3.?        93.0          1.9
Siuh-Tot.al FXTFNSInN TNFORHATTON OFNTFR         597.7    A3A.0  1.263.2       2.      ').4    4.3        94.7          7,A
C. APPI TFn RESFARCH
1. R11TIl, VF  9 EGITP (TNU.)             1450.4  1.9R3,2  3,333,5        9.0     7.3   12,3         99.9         7.4
2, INCR STAFF A OPER COSTS                  1,114.9    944.1  2,058.6       4,1      A,S    7.A        41.9         4,.
Sub-Tot.al APPL TFD RESFARCH                    2,464.8  ?.927.3  5#392.1      9,1    1O.R   20.0         94,3         120.
Ti, PRORJET MANAGEMENT ANDl KlE
1. I4ONTTnRING AND EVALUATION                 ?15.7      59,4    27F.1      0.R      0.?    1.0       ?1.;)         0.A
2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           5.8      26.8      32.6     0.0      0.1    O.1        F7.2          .l1
Sub-Total PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND HIE              221.5     86.2    307,6      0.R      0,3    1.1        21..0         0.7
E* TRAINING
1. TN-SFRUTCE                                 10R.0         -    lOR.0      0.4        -    0.4           -         0.2
2. OVERSEAS                                        -  3,063.0  3,063.0        -    11.;   11.3        100.0         6.R
Sub-Total TRAININGf                               108.0  3.063.0  3,171.0       0.4    11.3   12l7        96.6          7.1
F. TECHNICAL  RSTISTAN/Fb                          43.i    391.A    439.1      tt.?     1.9    1.7        90.0          1.)
rnt.RI RASEL.INF COSTR                          7A.W441.5 118v45A& 44R92.3    98.0    AR.1  1A4.3           41.1       100.0
Phwsical CrnntinrP,cisi                        19.19.7    383.9  1.9?3,7      5.7      1.4    7.1        20.0          4.3
Price Contingencieq /c                        5.37A,.  3.349.F  R.727.4    20.0    12.3   3203           3.4          19.4
rntal PROJECT CnSTS                             33,357.7 22,1R4.A 55,9542.3   123.7    82.0  205.7          39.9       123.7
Frnnt End Fee ./d                                          48.6      48,6       -      0,2    0.2       100.0           ,l1
*otai FINANCING RFflIITRFD                      33,397.7 21,233.2  .95.990.9   123.7   82.2  209.9         40.0        i :4.R
/a  Table contains rounding errors.
/b  Includes TL 74.1 million (US$0.3 million) for English-language instructors and TL 361.0 million (UES1.3
million) for consultants' services.
/c  Estimated in US$ terms at an exchange rate of US$1 = TL 270.  Because local inflation is expected to be
higher than international inflation, the actual TL amunts will be higher, the difference being offset by
changes in exchange rate.
Id  0.25% of Bank loan.



- 36 -
F. Financing
3.44     The proposed Bank loan of US$72.2 million will finance about 88% of
the foreign exchange cost of the project (about 35% of total cost) and the
front-end fee. A loan from IFAD of $10 million equivalent, to be administered
by the Bank, will finance the remainder of the foreign exchange requirement,
or 12% of foreign cost (about 5% of tutal cost). The IFAD loan will be
specifically applied to :.inance project activities in the iess developed
Southeast Anatolia region. The Government of Turkey as the borrower will
contribute US$123.7 million equivalent or the remaining 60% of the total
project cost, Financing o. the various project components will be shared as
shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN/a
(US$ million equivalent)
IBRD           IFP          Government         Total
Amount   %      AmounL   %      Amount   %      Amount   %
Extension Service          44.1    28       6.7    4      108.0   68       158.8   100
Extension Information
Center                     2.9    55        -      -       2.4   45         5.3   100
Applied Research           11.1    46       1.6    6        11.6   48       24.2   100
Pzoject 1anagement
and M&E                    0.3    26        -      -       1.0   74         1.4   100
Training                   12.0    84       1.7   12         0.5    4       14.2   100
Technical Assistance        1.6    90        -      -       0.2   10         1.8   100
Front-End Fee on
IBRD Loan                  0.2   100        -      -        -      -        0.2   100
Total                 72.2    35       10.0    5      123.7   60      205.9   100
/a  Physical and price contingencies added to each component; table contains
rounding errors.
3.45     Sufficient funds have been allocated in the 1984 budget for financing
the invastments and operations planned for the corresponding period of project
implemertation. It was agreed that (i) for subsequent years, the Government
will inform the Bank by September 15 of each year of MAFRA's proposed budget
allocations for meeting the needs of the various components of the project
during the forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) Government will take all
necessary action to ensure availability of adequate agricultural input. and
credit in the project area.



- 37 -
3.46     In order to avoid requiring the Government to pre-finance local
expenditures reimbursable under the Bank and IFAD loans, two Special Accounts
will be established at the Central Bank and an amount of US$5.0 million
enuivalent will be deposited in these accounts out of the Bank ($4.4 million)
and IFAD ($0.6 million) loans upon request from the Borrower. Thereafter, the
Bank and IFAD will replenish these accounts out of the proceeds of the loans
upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the Special Accounts for agreed
expenditures. In the case of any disbursements made from the Special Accounts
which prove to be unacceptable to the Bank, the Government will deposit a
correspouiding amount in the Special Accounts.
3.47     During the six-year project implementation period, the Bank and IFAD
loans will finance a progressively declining share of incremental operating
costs. The recurrent costs which will be borne by the Government annually in
suibseauent years are estimated at US$12.4 million equivalent in December 1983
prices, of which US$1.2 million equivalent will be recovered through income
taxes on incremental staff salaries. Assurances were obtained that Government
will provide adequate budgetary funds after the end of the six-year project
implementation period to maintain in the project area the extension and
applied research systems introduced under the project.
G. Procurement
3.48     Goods.  Vehicles, agricultural equipment and machinery and audio-
visual and office equipment, totalling US$22.7 million equivalent including
contingencies, will be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by
ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines, with the exception of small items to
be purchased in limited quantities and costing less than $10,000 each which
will be procurea by local shopping with at least three price quotations for a
maximum total amount of US$300,000. Laboratory equipment and seed stock for
livestock investigations (US$1.9 million) will be procured under limited
international bidding procedures. Since furniture (US$1.3 million) will be
procured in several small packages as building construction is completed in
scattered locations, this will be done by local shopping with at least three
price quotations.
3.49     Civil Works.  The contract for construction at the Middle Anatolia
research institute, estimated to cost about US$3.7 million equivalent, will be
awarded through ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Construction to
be financed under the project at the five other research institutes and for
the EIC and the TZ service, totalling about US$83.3 million equivalent,
consists of small works scattered in various locations in rural areas which
are not likely to interest foreign bidders. They will be procured through LCB
procedures, which allow the participation of foreign bidders. Housing and
office construction works for TZ will be packaged by county. Proposed
contract packages are described in Annex 11, Cll; there will be about 200
packages of an average value of about US$400,000.
3.50     Local procurement procedures for building construction, while
permitting procedures meeting Bank reauirements, also allow some pruccdures
which are not acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained during



- 38 -
negotiations that, for ouilding construction under the project, local bidding
will be conducted under procedures acceptable to the Bank, with in particular
pre- or post-qualifications of bidders on the basis of past performance,
technical/management team, present workload, equipment and financial stability
and no auction system after bid submission. Draft tender documents for the
first contract to be awarded under the project are to be submitted to the
Bank. During project supervision, a sample of the tender evaluations for
civil works procured under LCB will be reviewed by the Bank to ensure that
appropriately qualified contractors are being appointed.
3.51     Others.  The overseas training program, of a total cost of US$13.7
million equivalent including contingencies, will be administered as indicated
in para 3.40. Consultants (US$1.8 million) will be selected in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The balance of project costs (US$77.3 million
equivalent including contingencies) consists of some US$0.3 million for
subscriptions to periodicals and books for research institutes and the EIC,
which will be done by direct purchase from overseas suppliers, and of
incremental operating costs (salaries, local training, vehicles O&M, building
maintenance, etc.), for which procurement is inapplicable. A summlry of
procurement arrangements is given in Table 3.3.
3.52     Contract Review by the Bank.  All bidding packages for goods over
US$200,000 equivalent will be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. Since all goods to be procured under ICB are
expected to be grouped in packages of at least this size, with the possible
exception of equipment for the EIC, this will cover over 80% of the total
value of all goods to be procured under the project. Other contracts for
goods will be subject to selective post-award review by the Bank. For civil
works, all bidding packages to be procured through ICB and LCB packages above
US$750,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation.



- 39 -
TABLE 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTSL/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB      LCB       Other      NA        Total
Goujds:  Total Cost                   22.4        -        3,5                 25.9
if which:  IBRD funds                 18.3       -        2.3        -         20.6
IFAD funds                 2.0       -         -         -          2.0
Civil Works:  Total Cost               3.7     83.3        -         -         87.0
of which:  IBRD funds                  0.7     13.9        -         -         14.6
IFAD funds                  -       2.8        -         -          2.8
Overseas Training & Technical
Assistance:  Total Cost                -         -      15.5        -         15.5
of which:  IBRD funds                   -        -       13.7        -         13.7
IFAD funds                  -        -        1.6        -          1.6
Others:  Total Cost                     -        -        0.3      77.0        77.3
Of which:  IBRD funds                   -        -        0.3      22.8        23.1
IFAD funds                  -        -         -        3.6         3.6
Total Cost                            26.1     83.3      19.3      77.0       205.7
of which:  IBRD funds                 19.0      13.9     16.3      22.8        72.0
IFAD funds                 2.0      2.8       1.6       3.6        10.0
/a  Physical and price contingencies added to each category; table contains
rounding errors.
H. Disbursements
3.53     The proposed allocation of the Bank and IFAD loans against the
disbursement categories is shown in Annex 2. Disbursements for the Bank and
IFAD loans will be made on Lhe following basis:
(a)  100% of the CIF cost of directly imported goods;
(b)  100% of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods procured
through ICB or LIB;
(c)  20% of local expenditures for furniture and 80% for other goods
procured through local shopping;
(d)  20% of the cost of civil works contracts;



- 40 -
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures for foreign consultants and 90% of
total expenditures for local consultants;
(f)  100% of expenditures for overseas training;
(g)  a gradually decreasing percentage of incremental operating
costs, from 50% of the total (including salaries) initially down
to 10% at the end of the project implementation period.
Disbursements for LCB civil works contracts below US$750,000, for goods
procured through local shopping and for incremental operating costs, will be
made against statements of expenditures (SOEs); supporting documentation will
be retained by CDAA and will be made available for review by the Bank during
supervision missions. Disbursements against all other items will be made
against full documeritation.
3.54     The estimated semesterly schedule of disbursements of the Bank and
IFAD loans is given in Annex 3. It is expected that the project will be
completed on March 31, 1990, and the closing date of the Bank loan will be
December 31, 1990. The disbursement profile for the proposed project has been
compared with various agricultural sector profiles for IBRD loans to EMENA
countries, FY70-80. These profiles show the following characteristics:
No. of           Year from Ddte of Approval
Class                 Projects      50%  Disbursed         90% Disbursed
All Agricultural Projects         67       5th year, 1st half   8th year, 1st half
Irrigation Subsector              31      5th year, 2nd half   8th year, 2nd half
Rural Development Subsector        6      4th year, 2nd half   6th year, 2nd half
Livestock Subsector                6       3rd year, 1st half   5th year, 1st half
Under the proposed project, it is estimated that 50% of the loan will be
disbursed during the 4th year, 1st half from the date of Board approval, which
is due primarily to lar-ge front-end expenditures on vehicles and equipment.
The proposed project is also expected to disburse more rapidly than previous
agricultural projects in Turkey, because it supports an on-going effort within
an existing structure and delays in setting up new project organizations will
not arise. Furthermore, Turkey's historical disbursement profile includes
periods of unusual political disruptions which are not expected to be repeated.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.55     0DM will maintain separate accounts for the project and will prepare
at the end of each semester a detailed statement of project expenditures
during the period and submit such statement to the Bank within two months
after the end of each semester. In addition, an annual audit will be carried
out by the Ministry of Finance inspectors, including specific reference to,
and comments on, SOEs and the supporting documents, and submitted to the Bank
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.



- 41 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     The General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA) of MAFRA will
be the project implementing agency. Responsibility for execution tid
management of project operations in the field will be devolved to the TZ staff
at the provincial and county levels for extension and internal M&E, and to the
six research institutes of GDAA strengthened under the project for the
research component. As the project is mainly geared to supporting
improvements in the operations and management of GDAA's extension and research
services, description of organization and managenent aspects in thc field is
included in the project description (Chapter III).
4.02     At the central level, a centrg. coordination committee (CCC) will be
established under the chairmanship of the Undersecretary of MAFRA. The CCC
will ensure, in particular, that under the project field staff from GDPPQ,
CDVA, LDP and TOPRAKSU will provide training and participate as needed in
extension and research work with TZ subject matter specialists and GDAA's
researchers (paras 3.21, 3.30, 3.39). The General Director of Agricultural
Affairs will chair a central executive committee (CEC), which will include his
deputy directors in charge of extension and research/ and other staff as
designated by the GDAA. This central executive committee will meet
periodically to review progress under the project and will bring issues to the
attention of the CCC as needed. When necessary, heads of other agencies
providing complementary services (such as Gi'PPQ, TCZB, TZDK, etc.) would be
invited by the CEC to attend its meetings. The Director General of
Agricultural Affairs will designate one of his deputy directors to act as
national coordinator for the project, with responsibility for successful
implementation of all aspects of the project and day to day coordination on
both technical and administrative matters. He will be assisted in this task
by one senior staff assigned to work full-time on the project and by the
central internal M&E group. GDAA's central Department of Extension will
provide technical support for the field extension staff and ensure general
supervision of their operations, and the Department of Research will play a
similar role for the operations of the six research institutes under the
project. Responsibility for external M&E will be devolved to the existing
unit in the Department of Technical Cooperation and Coordination. GDAA's
Department of Training will participate in the organization of in-service
training, together with the concerned technical departments. The Department
of Externally-financed Projects of GDAA will coordinate procurement, as is the
case for other Bank-assisted projects such as the Corum-Cankiri Rural
Development project and the Erzurum Rural Development project. A small
project administration unit (PAU) will be established within this department,
with at least one equipment procurement specialist and one architect-enginrer
(para 4.06). The staff of the PAU will liaise closely with the central
internal M&E group and the Department of Planning and Budget of GDAA for
determining tihe annual budget allocations required for the project and keeping
records of project expenditures.
1/ An organization chart of GDAA's central services is attached (W.B. 25526).



- 42 -
4.03     For project purposes, appropriate interagency protocols will be
signed between GDAA and the agricultural faculties at Ankara, Izmir and Adana
to govern the use of university facilities, faculty and staff for the training
component (para 3.39); and between GDAA and TURDOK, FRT and TRT for staff
training and operations of the extension information center (paras 3.24,
3.39). An outline of these protocols is given in Annex 11, C3. Coordination
with public agencies providing input supply (TZDK, YEM) or marketing services
(e.g. TMO, TSEK) will be handled at the field level by the Provincial Director
of Agriculture-/ and, if necessary, at the central level by the project's
central coordination committee.  The involvement of TZ field staff in farmers'
sele.tion, farm plan preparation and technical supervision for agricultural
credit provided by TCZB will be governed by the protocol signed between MAF
and TCZB under the Bank-assisted Agricultural Credit II Project.
4.04     In order to foster improved coordination between extension and
research services on a regional basis, a regional coordination committee will
be established in each of the four agro-ecological zones under the project.
These committees will consist of the directors of the relevant research
institute(s) and the TZ directors and provincial directors of agriculture of
the concerned provinces.  Regional meetings will be held twice a year in each
of the agro-ecological zones of the project area, usually at the main research
institute responsible for the corresponding agro-ecological zone. Problems of
mutual interest to extension staff and researchers will be discussed at these
meetings, which will also provide an opportunity for bringing together the IZ
directors and provincial directors of agriculture of the various provinces of
a given agro-ecological zone. For indicative planning purpose, one of these
biannual meetings could be policy-oriented and would involve only the provin-
cial TZ directors and the research institute's director, while the other
meeting would be more technical and would have a larger attendance of SMSs and
researchers. At the second regional meetings in each year, specific research
and extension programs for the forthcoming year will be discussed and agreed
upon. These will be reviewed and a final decision made in an annual general
meetina at the central level held at the end of each year under the chairman-
ship of the General Director of Agricultural Affairs and with the participation
of the 16 provincial TZ directors and the 6 research institute directors,
together with other staff as requested by CDAA.
B. Civil Works
4.05     According to government regulations, the civil works program will be
carried out under the aegis of the Ministry of Public Works and Resettlement
(MPWR). Large construction projects such as the Middle Anatolia, Eskisehir
and Grassland and Animal Husbandry research institutes and, possibly, the
Extension Information Center, will be let out by MPWR to private architectural
firms through competitive tendering by prequalified firms; in accordance with
1/ Since 1982, a provincial director of agriculture has been designated in
each province, among either the provincial director of TZ, the provincial
director of veterinary services or the provincial director of forestry,
with responsibility for coordinating all agricultural services on behalf
of the provincial governor.



- 43 -
the current regulation of MPWR, the appointed firm will take full professional
responsibility for architectural and engineering work and assist MPWR in
administration of the tendering and site supervision during the construction
period. For all other buildings, GDAA will be responsible for identifying and
acquiring the sites, while the architectural and engineering work (including
the preparation of site plans and adaptation drawings) will be done by MPWR,
which will also administer the tendering for contracting construction to the
private sector and carry out site supervision. Confirmation was obtained from
Government that an adequate cadre of architect-engineers with vehicles will be
available in MPWR for site supervision of the civil works program in the
various provinces.
4.06     in view of the magnitude and complexity of the civil works program,
GDAA has assigned an architect-engineer to deal full-time with this
component.  During project implementation, he will be assigned to the PAU to
administer and coordinate civil works construction. During the design phase,
he will be specifically responsible for dealing with architects in NPWR and in
the private sector on behalf of GDAA. He will supervise the bidding
procedures, and in the construction phase will monitor progress and
participate with staff of MPWR in site supervision. He will also prepare cash
flow forecasts for construction contracts to ensure that adequate government
funding is available. Terms of reference for this architect-engineer are
provided in Annex 11, Cll.
4.07     Status of Designs and Land Acquisition.  Standard drawings already
exist for the various types of housing and office buildings to be constructed
for the TZ extension service, and preliminary drawings have been prepared for
some of the research buildings included in the project. The Governmentt has
decided that the Extension Information Center would be located on the site of
the Grassland and Animal Husbandry research institute in Ankara. Site
acquisition and zoning approval have been completed for most of the extension
buildings included in the first year construction program, and are underway
for the remainder.
C. Implementation Schedule
4.08     The implementation schedule for the various components is given in
Chart W.B. 25527. Based on experience under previous projects, it is expected
that the construction of houses and offices for TZ will be completed by the
fourth year of project implementation, while the construction of large facili-
ties at the research institutes and EIC will be completed by the fifth year.
Incremental staff recruitment will be carried out during the first three years
of project implementation, so that all I'VTs can be posted in villages by the
end of the fourth year of project implementation after pre-service training.
Procurement of vehicles and equipment will be consonant with the availability
of staff for the project. The total project implementation period will thus
extend over six years so as to provide financial and technical support to the
operations of the reorganized extension service for 1-2 years after it reaches
its full strength. A number of factors are expected to contribute to timely
implementation of the proposed project, despite its relatively large size and
the delays encountered in implementation of some previous agricultural
projects in Turkey.  The proposed project organization is fully consistent



- 44 -
with the existing government structure, and the project will be implemented by
a single agency (GDAA), thus avoiding the delays in setting up special project
units and in achieving coordination between different agencxes which have
largely contributed to slow implementation under previous projects. The
government is strongly committed to the proposed project, which will support
efforts which are already underway at Government's own initiative. Lastly,
project preparation has been carried out by the implementing agency (GDAA) in
close collaboration with the Bank.
4.09      Project implementation may proceed faster than indicated in the above
implementation schedule, depending on the degree of priority which will be
given to this particular project by Government. GDAA indicated to the
appraisal mission its intention to complete the village housing construction
program in 2-3 years, which could be feasible provided land acquisition and
contract adjudication are expedited by both GDAA and MPWR. Furthermore, the
deployment of technicians in the villages would be accelerated in cases where
temporary housing is available. Following appraisal, GDAA conducted a
detailed field survey of the project area during which village group centers
to be staffed with a VGT have been identified on the basis of agreed
indicative staff densities (para 3.15) and of criteria such as distances
between villages, availability of transportation and other facilities,
characteristics of surrounding villages to be served by the VGT, etc. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained that for each year of project
implementation aui annual work program will be prepared and submitted to the
Bank for comment not later than September 15 prior to final budget approval
for the forthcoming fiscal year. These annual work programs, for which an
outline is given in Annex 4, will constitute the basis for a revised annual
implementation schedule.  They will also serve as an instrument for the
Government to take all necessary action to ensure adequate supply of inputs
and credit to support the operations of the extension service in the project
area. The annual work programs will contain details on staff deployment,
proctrement and civil works construction planned for the forthcoming year,
together with an annual updated financing plan indicating, both for invest-
ments and operating expenditures, the required budget allocations for the
various components of the project including revised schedules accounting for
physical and price changes. The format of the annual budget requests from the
TZ field offices will be modified in accordance with the new organization of
TZ's operations under the project and will form the basis of the annual work
program for the whole project, which will be prepared by the PAU with
assistance from the internal M&E group.
4.10     Since the project is aimed mainly at promoting conceptual changes and
strengthening institutional arrangements that are already uniderway, it will be
initiated simultaneously in all 16 provinces. Priority will be given to fully
staffing the SMS teams in the early years, while the strength of VGTs in the
villages will be built up as rapidly as possible according to housing
availability. Incremental staff recruitment for the research institutes will
give priority to staffing the S3ltheast Anatolia and Grassland and Animal
liusbandry research institutes. The output of agricultural engineers and



- 45 -
technicians from the training instituitions, together with the. availability of
past graduates on the job market is sufficient to ensure that staff avail-
ability wilL not be a constraint for implementation of this project. Inx view
of Government's intent to ultimately reorganize and strengthen the TZ service
nationwide through a series of projects similar to this first one, CDAA's
program for increasing enrollment in agricultural high schools in order to
meet the projected medium-term needs for incremental staff will be reviewed as
part of the work of the working groups on research and extension which are
supported under the project (para 3.42).
4.11     At the central level, the first year of project implementation will
be largely devoted to completing administrative arrangements and preparing the
orientation program for field staff. During negotiations, assurance was
obta..ned that revised job descriptions for all TZ staff in the project area
and for selected MAFRA research staff will be issued before September 30,
1984, in accordance with agreed extension operational methods and
organizational structure (described in Chapter III). Agreement was also
reached on a tinetable for recruitment of consultants.  In particular, the
long-term extension and internal N&E consultants would be recruited by
mid-1984 so as to provide timely assistance in reorganizing the extension
service and organizing the orientation training for field staff, and in
setting up the management information component of the M1&E system before
operations start in the field. In the field, regular workshops for SMSs in
collaboration with research will start during the first year of project
implementation, and the selection of contact farmers and regular visits by
VG?s will be initiated with the personnel already in position at that time.
The first year of field operations will be largely devoted to a joint
diagnosis by research and extension staff of the main constraints to increased
productivity faced by various categories of farmers so as to determine the
most relevant types of technology to be emphasized. Phasing of operations in
regard to the technical content of the extension program wilL concentrate
initially on a few selected cropslprograms which concern a majority of the
farmers and for which research findings are available which can be of
financial benefit for the farmers.  This progressive strategy will ensure a
gradual build-up of technical competence at various levels, and by ensuring
quick results, of credibility of the extension service in the eyes of the
farmers.  Later, as information flows from farmers to extension and research
institutes, the proposed technology packages will be refined, changed and
expanded over time to cover other aspects of the farmer's operations.
D. Project Supervision and Progress Reporting
4.12     This project is a complex and far-reaching one, which aims at laying
sound foundations for a nationwide reorganization of the exihting extension
and research services. Because of this, as well as of the large geographical
coverage of the project and the flexibility which has to be built in its
design to allow for needed adjustments over the six-year period, above average
supervision coefficients will have to be allocated to this project by the Bank
and IFAD in order to continue the dialogue which has been initiated during
project preparation and appraisal and effectively contribute to institution
building.



- 46 -
4.13     In view of the complexity of organizational arrangements for
operation of this project and the new concepts that they reflect as well of
its intended future expansion nationwide, a mnid-term review will be undertaken
during the third year of implementa.:ion with the broad objectives outlined in
Annex 11, C5. This review will be conducted jointly by Government, the Bank
and IFAD according to terms of reference that will be drawn up by Government
and which shall be approved by the Bank before the end of the second year of
project implementation. This mid-term review will allow to effect any changes
in policy which may be required under this project and will contribute to
improving the design of repeater projects. As staff build-up will proceed at
a different pace in various counties of the project area, the effectiveness of
different staffing ratios will be assessed at the mid-termn review. The M&E
units associated with the project will have an active role in assembling and
assimilating data for consideration at the time of mid-term review.
4.14     GDAA will submit to the Bank semiannual progress reports which will
contain an assessment of technical and financial aspects during the past six
months, including details on extension activities Eor specific crop and animal
husbandry aspects in the various provinces and counties of the project area,
and cn specific research programs carried out by each research institute to
serve the needs of the extension service. These reports will be prepared by
staff from the internal n4&E group with assistance from the PAU according to a
format to be agreed upon with the Bank and will be forwarded to the Bank
within two months from the end of each six-month period. Towards the close of
the project period, the Government will prepare and submit to the Bank within
six months of the loan closing date a project completion report summarizing
performance under the project and evaluating its successes and problems.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.01     The total investment cost of the project, excluding incremental
operating costs, taxes and price contingencies, is estimated at US$11Z.8
million equivalent in December 1983 terms, which is about US$9.6 per hectare
of cultivated land or US$94.0 per farm family in the project area.
Incremental operating costs at full development, which will be met by the
Government's recurrent budget, are estimated at US$11.2 million annually
excluding taxes, or US$9.4 per farm family in December 1983 prices. Some of
this cost will be recovered ind)'reculy through sales taxes on incremental
production sold by the farmerslk and resulting from the intensification of
agriculture to be promoted by the extension service.
5.02     The technology packages to be recornaended by the extension service
for use by the farmers in the project area, as well as the yield and produc-
tion increases to be expected from their application will vary according to
crop, agro-ecological zone, county and the level of the farmers; they will be
1/  Since 1981, a 5/ tax is levied by Government on sales of agricultural
products by the farmers.



- 47 -
further refined during project implemenitation as applied research progresses
and increasingly takes into account on-farm conditions and constraints.
Because of this, ard because adoption rates for various recommended practices
would be difficult to assess, no attempt has been made to quantify the
benefits expected from the project. Such benefits expressed in terms of
production increases would be due to other factors besides extension, such as
additional purchased inputs, increased farm labor, investments in complemen-
tary infrastructure, etc., with extension playing the role of a catalyst. For
these reasons, a project of the type proposed here does not lend itself to
traditional economic analysis and estimate of an economic rate of return
(ERR). An indicative calculation can, however, be made, which shows that even
a very small and slow increase in productivity as a result of the nroject
would be sufficient to generate an ERR of 20%, and hence that the proposed
investments in extension and applied research appear to be economically
justified. The net present value in economic terms!' of the project
cost-stream (6-year project implementation period and recurrent costs
thereafter), calculated at a 20% discount rate and assui,iing a project life of
30 years, is equivalent to TL 29,928 million in December 1983 prices.
Assuming that full benefit would be reached in year 7, and that the build-up
would be 0% in year 1, 10% in year 2, 30% in year 3, 60% in year 4, 80% in
year 5 and 90% in year 6, the project's full benefit would have to amount to
TL 10,654 million annually (in December 1983 prices) in order to achieve an
ERR of 20%. This corresponds to TL 1,300 per hectare cropped (8.2 million ha
in the project area excluding fallow). With an economic farmgate price for
wheat, which is the major crop of the project area, of TL 35 per kg, this
would correspond to an increase in wheat yield of 37 kg per hectare or only 2%
above the current average wheat yield of about 1800 kg/ha in Turkey. This
calculation is purely indicative, since it does not take into account
incremental on-farm costs and concerns only the hypothetical benefits which
would be derived solely from the proposed reorganization and strengthening of
the extension service.
5.03     Besides its contribution to improving agricultural incomes,
production and exports in the project area, this project will contribute to
institution-building of GDAA, the country's largest agency for agricultural
extension and research. Through its M&E component in particular, it will
permit further testing and refinement of extension methods to be ultimately
extended to the whole country.
B. Project Risks
5.04     The project involves the reorganization of a major activity of the
Ministry of Agriculture, providing extension services. It will introduce new
methods of providing extension advice and managing extension staff which will
probably take some years to be fully accepted. While the project supports
ongoing efforts in MAFRA and GDAA, and has already been advertised and has
generated a great deal of enthusiasm in the concerned provinces and among
extension workers, there is a clear risk that the initial momentum may
diminish and the proposed improvements in the delivery of extension services
may not be fully adopted and permanently institutionalized. In particular, a
change in project management in GDAA might affect project implementation. A
1/ Using a standard conversion factor of 0.8 for local costs.



- 48 -
second risk relates Lo the superiority of the knowledge of the extension
workers above what is known by the farmers, and the continuous availability of
further research findings on which to base extension recommendations after the
initial stages of project implementation. The applied research and training
components of the project are designed to minimize this risk; the Government
is considering further imnprovemnents in its agricultural research capabilities,
and further 3ank assistance in this field may be considered in the future.
5.05     Another set of risks relates to physical implementation of the
project. Past experience with other agricultural projects in Turkey shows
that building construction often progresses very slowly, as a result of delays
in land acquisition and poor selection of contractors; provisions are made in
this project to ensure that LCB procedures will be adequately adjusted (para
3.50). One risk which other Bank-assisted projects in Turkey have faced in
recent years would be an inadequate local budgetary support which, as shown by
expetience, would affect first and foremost the provision of funds for
operating costs. This would result in particular in a lack of mobility of the
extension staff preventing it from carrying out its duties. To minimize this
risk, the project includes funds for incremental operating costs, of which a
decreasing percentage will be financed by the Bank and IFAD during the
six--year project implementation period.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     Conditions of effectiveness for the Bank loan would be:
(a)  effectiveness of the proposed IFAD loan of US$UO million;
(b)  establishment of the working groups on research and extension
(para 3.42);
(c)  opening of the Special Accounts (para 3.46);
(d)  establishment of the Project Administraticn Unit and Central,
Executive and Regional Coordination Cornmittees and designation
of the Project Coordinator (paras 4.02 and 4.04); and
(e)  signing of protocols between GDAA and other agencies (para 4.03).
6.02     During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the
Government that it would:
(a)  take all measures necessary to ensure availability of adequate
agricultural inputs and credit in the project area (paras 3.05,
3.45);
(b)  employ an international agency for administering overseas
training (para 3.40) and consultants (paras 3.41-3.42) in
accordance with an agreed timetable;



- 49 -
(c)  provide adequate budgetary funds after project completion for
maintenance in the project area of the extension and research
systems introduced under the project (para 3.47);
(d) submit not later than September 15 each year for review by the
Bank an annual work program and proposed budget allocations
(para 4.09);
(e) recruit adeauate project staff in accordance with an agreed
schedule and issue revised job descriptions for project area
staff by September 30, 1984 (para 4.11);
(f)  undertake a mid-term review of project implementation
(para 4.13); and
(g) discuss with the Bank the recommendations of the working groups
on agricultural extension and research (para 6.01(e).
6.03     On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the project is
suitable foi a Bank loan of US$72.2 million to the Government of Turkey.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Toi)le I
TURK;EY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Summari Account bo Tiee
bise Costs      Total
Base Costs                                                   + Price       Incl.
(TL Million)                           Foreisn Exchange    Colt, on         Cont,
-    Base Costs        (US$
PYI     PY2       PY3      PY4      PY5      PY6    Total        2      Aeount   (USt Million)  Million)
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                  4t295.8  5,744.1  5,633.3 2,742.6   151.0          - 18,566.8    20.0   3.705.4               79.1      87.0
B. VEHICLES                                     2,598.3  1.459.2    545.1         -        -        -  4,602.5    90.9   4,184.1              18,6      18.6
C. FURNITURE & EiUIPHENT
1. FURNITURE                                    61,6    103,4      96.3    44.4      5.3        -    310.9    20,0        62.2             '.3        1.3
2. AUDIOVISUAL AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT            119.3    346.4       3.1      3.1      3.1       -    475.1    91.4       434.3             j,9        1.9
3. AGRICULTURAL EOUIPHENT                      344.3    294.6       0.6        -        -       -    639.4    90.9       581.3             2.6        2.6
4. LABORATORY EOUIPMENT                        229.8    223.9         -        -        -             453.6    90.9      412.4             1.8        i.B
Sub-Total FURNITURE A EQUIPMENT                   755.0    968.3    100.0    47.5        8.5        -  1,879.2    79.3   i,490.1               7.7       7.7
D. TRAININO                                       169.8    714.4    999.0   914.8   306.0           -  3,104.0    98.7   3,063.0              13.9      13.9
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                           142.5    171.8       90.0    23.1      7.9        -    435.1    90.0      391.6              1.8        1.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             7,961.4  9,057.6  7,367.3 3,727.9   473.3           - 28,587.6    44.9  12.834.2             121.0      128.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCR. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
1. INCR STAFF SALARIES                       591.4  1,170.5  1,539.4 1,539.4 1,53S.4 1,539.4  7,919.4          0.0        0.0            36.9       36.9
2. IHCR. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                     76.4    142.7    172.2   172.2   172.2   172.2    908.0         0.0        0,0             4.2        4.2
Sub-Total INCR. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES          667.8  1,313.2  1,711.6 1,711.6 1,711.6 19711.6  8,827.4          0.0       0.0            41.2       41.2
0. INCR. VEHICLES 0U1                            110.4    526,4    741.0   818.4   818.4   818,4  3,833.1    87.8   39364.3                  18.1      18.1
C. INCR. BUILDING NAINT.                             -      43.0    100.4   156.7   184.2   185.7    669.7    20.0          134.0             3,2       3.6
D. REFRESHER TRO                                   6.5      16.9      19.4     8.0      8.0     8.0      66.9      0.0       0.0              0,3       0.3
E. OTHER INCR. OPERATING COSTS                   155.    376.6    529.3   599.8   623.1   622.7  2,907.3    72.9   2,118.3                  13.7      13.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                940,4  2,276.2  3,101.7 3,294.6 39345.3 3.346.5 16,304.7    34.4   St616.6                  76.5      76.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                8.901.8 1l333.8 10,469.0 7,022.5 3.818,6 3,346.5 44,892.3    41.1  18,450.8                 197.5      205.7
Phssical CDntingenries                             429.6    578.7    573.4   289.9    33.5    18.6  1,923.7    20.0          383.9                -          -
'rice Contingencies                                453,2  1,457o9  2,140.0 1.940.9 1t314.9 1.419.5  8,726.4    38.4   3.349.8
Total PC..JECT COSTS                                9.784.6 13,370.4 13,182.4 9,253.4 5,167.1 4.784.5 559542.3    39.9  22,184.6                 197.5      205.7
Taxes                                              133.7    283.2    399.4   423,3   448.7   475.6  2,164,0          0,0        0.0               -       8.0
Foreign Exchange                                 4,661.9  5r610.5  4,634.9 3.462.1 2,092.7 19722.5 22,184.6          0.0        0.0               -       82.2
tarch 5, 1984  17:34



- 51 -                                           ANNEX  1
Table 2
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Susmary Account bv Time
Totals Including Contingencies
(TL Million)
----------------------------------------------------------
PYl     PY2      PY3      PY4     PY5     PY6    Total
I. INVESTMIENT COSTS
__ _ ______ _ __
A. CIVIL WORKS                               4,954.9  7,091,7  7t397.5 3,817.6   222.8         - 23,484.5
B. VEHICLES                                   20724.5  1,637.7    650.7       -        -       - 5,012.?
C. FURNITURE I EQUIPHEiT
1. FURNITURE                                 64.6    116.0    114.9   56.1       7.1        -    358.8
2. AUDIOVISUAL AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT          125.1   388.8       3,7     4.0     4.2        -    525.8
3. AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT                   361.0    330.6       0.7       -       -        -    692.3
4. LABORATORY EQUIPMENT                      240.9    251.3        -       -       -        -    492.2
Sub-Total FURNITURE S EQUIPNENT                791.6  1,086.7    119,4    60.1    11.3         - 2,069.2
D. TRAINING                                     178.1    801.8  1,192.6 1Y157.6   410.5        - 3,740.6
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         149.4    192.8    107.4    29,2    10.6        -    489.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                          89798.5 10,810.8  99467,6 5,064,5   655.2           34,796.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. INCR. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES
1. INCR STAFF SALARIES                     620.1  1,313.8  1,837.7 1,948.0 2,064.8 2,188.7  9,973.1
2. INCR. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                  80,1    160.1    205.6   217.9   231.0   244.9  19139.7
Sub-Total INCR. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES       700.2  1,473.9  2,043.3 2,165,9 2,295.9 2,433,6 11,112.8
B. INCR. VEHICLE8 0511                         115,8   590.8   884.6 19035.7 1,097.8 19163.7  4v888.3
Co INCR, BUILDING MAINT,                           -     53.0    131.E   218,2   271.7   290.4    965.2
D. REFRESHER TRG                                 6.8     19.0     23.1    10.2    10.8    11.4      81.3
E. OTHER INCR. OPERATING COSTS                 163.4    422.7    631.9   759.0  835.7   885.4  3,698.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                              986.1  2,559#6  3,714.8 4,188.9 4,511.9 4,784.5 20,745.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                               9784.6 139370.4 13,182o4 9t253.4 5,167.1 49784*5 55,542.3
Harch 5  1984  17:35



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                                        Table  3
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
ProJect Component bv Tine
(TL Million)
Total
Bsse Costs                       ----------------
-------------------------------------------------               (USS
PYl     PY2      PY3      PY4      PY5     PY6        TL    Million)
A. EXTENSION SERVICE
______ _ ____ _ _
1. BUILD, YEE t EQUIP (INY.)              6,441.1  69570.2  5,726.2 2,590.6         -       -  21,328.0     79.0
2. INCR STAFF I OPER COSTS                  731.0  1786.3  2,481.3 2,668.7 2,713.9 20713.9  13,095.2       48.5
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICE                  7,172.1  8,356,4  8,207.5 5,259,3 2,713.9 2,713.9  34,423.2    127.5
B. EXTENSION INFORMATION CENTER
1. BUILD, VEH I EQUIP (INV.)                 38,0    236,9      33.3       -        -       -     308.1       1.1
2. INCR STAFF I OPER COSTS                   66.8    152.9    158.1   159.1   159,1   159.1       855.1       3.2
Sub-Total EXTENSION INFORMATION CENTER         104.8    389.8    191.4   159.1   159.1   159.1   1,163.2         4.3
C. APPLIED RESEARCH
1. BUILD, VEH & EQUIP (INV.)              1,099.0  1,356.6    518.9   199.5   159.5         -   3.333.5      12,3
2. INCR STAFF g OPER COSTS                  105.3    281.4    403.2   418.2   423.7   426.7  2,058.6          7.6
Sub-Total APPLIED RESEARCH                    1,204.4  1,638.0    922.2   617.7   583.1   426.7   5.392.1       20.0
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND HIE
__________ __ _ _ _ ____ _
1, MONITORING AND EVALUATION                 79.6     44.4      37.5    38.5    38.5    36.6      275.1      1t0
2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        22,2       2.1      2.1     2,1      2.1     2.1      32.6       0.1
Sub-Total PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND t&E            101.8     46,5     39.6    40.6    40.6    38.7      307.6       1.1
E. TRAINING
1, IN-SERVICE                                32,5     24.8      26.1     8.3      8.3     8.0     108.0       0.4
2. OVERSEAS                                 143.8    706,5    992.3   914.6   305,8         -   3,063.0      11.3
Sub-Total TRAINING                              176.3    731.3  1,018.4   922.8   314.0      8.0   3,171.0      11.7
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                        142.5    171.8      90.0    23.1      7.9       -     435.1       1.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                           8,901.8 11,333.8 10,469.0 7,022.5 3,818.6 3,346,5  44,892.3    166.3
Physical Contingencies                        429.6    578.7    573.4   289,9    33.5    18.6   1,923.7         7.1
Price Contingencies                           453.2  1,457.9  2,140.0 1,940,9 1,314.9 1,419.5   8,726.4        32.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                            9,784.6 13,370,4 13,182.4 9,253.4 59167.1 4,784.5  55,542.3    205.7
Taxes                                         133.7    283.2    399.4   423.3   448.7   475.6   2,164.0         8.0
Foreign Exchange                            4,661.9  5,610.5  4,634,9 3,462.1 2,092.7 1,722,5  22,184.6        82.2
March 5. 1984  17:36



- 53 -                                           ,i4N Ix  1
Tabie 4
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Component bg Tise
(TL Million)
Total
Totals Including Contingencies             ---
----- ---- ----- ---- ----- - -- ----- ---- ----  (US$
PYl     PY2      PY3      PY4     PYS     PY6        TL    Million)
A. EXTENSION SERVICE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. BUILD, VEN I EQUIP (INV.)             7,2DO.2  7,947.5  7,445.6 3P601.3        -       -  26,194.5      97.0
2. INCR STAFF I OPER COSTS                  766.5  2,009.6  2y973.4 3,395.4 3,463.2 3,883.0  16,691.1      61.8
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICE                  7,966.7  9,957.1 10.419,0 6,996.7 3,663.2 3,883,0  42P885,6    158.8
B. EXTENSION INFORMATION CENTER
Is BUILD. VEH I EQUIP (INV.)                40,2    276,2      43.4       -       -       -      359.7      1.3
2. INCR STAFF I OPER COSTS                  70,1    171.7   188,9   201.5   213.6  226.4   1,072.0          4,0
Sub-Total EXTENSION INFORNATION CENTER        110.3    447.8   232.3   201.5   213.6   224.4   1,431.7         5.3
C. APPLIED RESEARCH
1. BUILD, VEH I EQUIP (INV.)             1,156.2  1,583.8    678.6   276.4   234.1         -   3,929.1     14.6
2. INCR STAFF & OPER COSTS                  110.5    315,8    482,1   530.5  570.0  608.8  2,617.7          9.7
Sub-Total APPLIED RESEARCH                   1,266,6  1,899.6  1,160.7   806.9   804.2   608.8  6,546.9       24.2
D. PROJECT MANA6EMENT AND MIE
1. HONITCRING AND EVALUATION                83.5      49,8     44.8    48.7    51.6    52.0    330,4   .      2
2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        23.3      2.3      2.5     2.6      2,8     3.0      36.5      0.1
Sub-Total PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND N&E           106.7     52.2     47,3    51.3    54,4    55.0    366.9        1.4
E. TRAINING
1, IN-SERVICE                               34.1      27,8     31,1    10.5   11,1    11,4    126,1         0.5
2. OVERSEAS                                 150.8    793.0  1,184.7 1,157.3  410,1         -   3,695.9     13.7
Sub-Total TRAINiNG                             184.9   820.9  1,215.8 1,1678   421,2    11.4   3t821*9        14.2
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       149.4    192.8    107.4   29.2    10.6          -     489.3      1.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                           9,784.6 13,370.4 13,182,4 9,253.4 5,167,1 4,784.5  55.542#3   205.7
Harch S, 1984  17:36



TUCEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEACH PROJECT
Sumsary Account bY Project Coaponent
iT' Killion)
EXTENSIUN INF5R MTIOK                         PROJECT MANAGENENT AND
CENTER             APLIED RESEARCEH              IE
EXTENSION SERVICE                                        ------        -                                                                   Ph9sical
-----------------         WBUILD, YEN INCR STAFF WiLD. uEH  80CR STAFF  WNITORIN6                      TRAINING                             ContigemCies
NUILD. IEM t  INCR STAFF I   I E0IP      1 OPER    S EQUIP      S OPER       AND       PROJECT    ------------------   TECHIiICh            ------------
EGJIP (IWN.)  [PER COSTS    (lNV.)       COSTS       (INV.)     COSTS     EVALUATION  ,ANaOEtfENT  IN-SERVICE  OVERSEAS ASSISTANCE  Total     I  Mount
1, lNVEStNENt COSTS
A. CIVIL WS                                    17423.?             -        126.5          -    Ir416.4           -           -            -          -         -          -  189566.9  10.0 1B56.7
B. EIUCES                                       3,496.0            -        25.9           -    11063,6           -         0.5          8.5          -         -          -  4v602.5   0.0    0.0
C. FURNITIE I EGUIPIEl
1. FURNITURE                                   245.4            -         10-3          -       54.2                       -            -                               _    310       0.0    0.0
2. AUDIOVISUQL AN OFFICE EQUIPMENT             204.2            -        145-5          _        63.6          -         49.7        13.1          -         -          -    475.1   0.0    D.0
3. ARICULTURAL EQUIPnENT                       357.4            -           -           -      282.0           -           -            -                                     639.4   0.0    0.0
4. LABORATORY EolPNE-T                            -            -                               453.6          -            -                                                 453.6   0.0    0.0
Sub-Total FURNITURE I E0UIPNENT                   801              -        155.7          -      853.5           -        48.7         13.1          -         -          -  1,879.2   0.0    0.0
D. TRAINING                                          -             -           -           -          -           -           -            -       41t.  34063.0           -  3,104,0   0,0    0,0                I
E. TECMCA. ASSlhTACEE                                 -            -            -          -           -          -            -           -          -  _              435.1    435.1   0.0    0.0
Total INSUIENT COSTS                              21.3280             -       308.1           -    3,3335            -        57.2         21.6       41.1  3,063.0       43S.1  28,587.6   6.5 1,856.7
II. RECURRE   COSTS
A. IC. SARIES AD ALLDACES
L. 1INR STAFF SALARIES                           -       6,790.3           -       101,0          -       829.7        199.4           -          -         -          -  7,919.4   0.0    0.0
2. iNCR. TRAVEL ALLOKNIS                                   812.7 .                                         31.4          3,9           _           -        -          -    90S.0   0.0    0.0
Sub-Total ItCo. SALARIES ANO ALLOWANCES             -       70663.0           -       1010                   860.1       203.2            -          -         _          -  9,927.4   0.0    0.0
D. Zhu. VEIIcuLJ DsO                                -       3,40.2            -        178           -       557.2         8.5          7,4                                   3 _  -  3.1   0.0    0.0
C. IlllR. BUILDING MIiAt.                           -         b21.4           -         4.a          -        43.8           -            -          -         -          -    66.   10.0   67.0
i. REF9E8)R 3R6                                      -            -           -           -          -           -           -            -       66.9         -          -      bb.9   0.0    0.0
E. OTHERT 11CR. OPRMI1NG COSTS                       -       ,570.6                   729.6           -      597.5         6.1          3.6          -         _          -  2,907.3   0.0    M.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                   -      13.095.2           -       955.1          -    2,058.6        217.9         11.0       66.?         -          -  16,304.7   0.4   67.0
Total BASLINE COSTS                               21,328,0      134095-2       308.1       955.1    34333.S    2,058.6        275.1         32.6      1n8.0  3,063.0       435.1  44,892.3   4.3 1?923,7
Physical Contingencies                           107024          62.1        1246         0.5      141.6         4.4           -            -          -         -          -  1,923.7   0.0    0.0
Price tontingenies.                              3414.1       1,533.7         39.0      216.4       454*0      554.8        55.3          3,9       13.1    632.9         54.2  8,726.4   3.4  29'.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                26b194.5     16,691.1       35?.7    14072.0    3rM.1        2,617.7       330.4         36.5      126.1  3,695.9       469.3 55,542.3   4.0 21222.7
lIXOs                                                 -       1,864.1            -          -          -        248.2       51.6            -          -         _          -  2t16440    0.0    0.0
foreisn Exc4anse                                 8,384.7      5,387.5       205.7       565.0    2.209.6    1,202.9         64.4         29.a          -  3,695.9       440.4  22.184.6   2.0  443.7
Marcl 5, 1984 17:37



- 55                                               ANNEX  1
Table 6
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(TL Killion)              (USI million)
--------------------------  ---------------------     Foreign   Z Tatal
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign Total   Exchange   Base Costs
A. EXTENSION SERVICE
1. BUILI, VEN I EDUIP (INV.)              14,185.2  79142.8 21,328.0    52.5    26.5   79.0          33.5         47.5
2. INCR STAFF I OPER COSTS                  8,891.3  4,203.9 13,095.2    32.9    15,6   48.5          32.1        29.2
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICE                   23.076.5 119346,7 34.423.2    85.5    42.0  127.5          33.0        76.7
B. EXTENSION INFORMATION CENTER
_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ ____ _ _ _
1. BUILD, VEH I E8UIP (INV.)                  125.7    182.4    308,1      0.5     0.7    1.1        59.2          0.7
2. INCR STAFF I OPER COSTS                    401.5    453.6    855.1      1.5      1.7    3,2        53.0         1.9
Sub-Total EXTENSION INFORHiATION CENTER          527.2    636,0  1.163.2       2.0     2.4    4,3        54.7         2.6
C. APPLIED RESEARCH
1. BUiLD, VEH I  E9U!P (INV.)               1,350.4  1,983.2  3,333,5    5S0        7.3   12.3       59,5          7,4
2. INCR STAFF I OPER COSTS                  1,114,5    944.1  2P058,6      4.1      3.5    7.6        45,9         4.6
Sub-Total APPLIED RESEARCH                     2,464.8  2.927,3  5.392.1       9.1    10.8   20,0        54.3        12,0
I, PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND HIE
1, MONITORING AND EVALUATION                  215.7     59.4    275.1      0.8      0.2    1,0        21,6         0.6
2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                           5.8     26.8      32.6     0.0      0.1    0.1        82.2         0.1
Sub-Total PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND N2E             221.5      86.2    307.6     0.8      0.3    1.1        28.0         0.7
E. TRAINING
1. IN-SERVICE                                 108.0        -    108.0      0.4        -    0.4           -         0.2
2. OVERSEAS                                       -  3P063.0  3,063.0         -    11.3   11.3       100.0         6.8
Sub-Total TRAINING                               108.0  3,063.0  3,171.0       0.4    11.3   11.7        96,6          7.1
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                           43.5    391.6    435.1       0.2     1.5    1.6        90,0          1.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                            26.441,5 18.450,8 44,892,3    97.9    68.3  166.3          41.1        100.0
Ph.sical Contingencies                        1.53907    383.9  1,923.7       5,7     1,4    7,1        20.0          4.3
Price Contingencies                           5f376.5  3P349.8  8,726.4    19.9    12.4   32.3          38.4        19.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                             33,357.7 22.184,6 55,542.3   123.5    82.2  205,7          39.9        123.7
Front End Fee                                       -      48.6     48.6        -     0.2    0.2       10D00          0.1
Total FINANCING REQUIRED                        33p357#7 22P233#2 55,590.9   123.5    82.3  205.9          40.0        123.8
March 5, 1984 17:38



- 56 -                                         ANNEX 2
IUBE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Bank and IFAD Loans
Proposed Loan
Category                               (US$ Equivalent)              Percentage to be Financed
IBRD             IFAD
I. Civil Works and Furniture
(a) For TZ in SE Anatolia             -             2,200,000        20% of local expenditures.
(b) Others                       11,700,000             -            20% of local expenditures.
II.  Vehicles                          11,440,000         1,560,000        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory).
III. Equipment (Agricultural            4,900,000             -             100% of foreign expenditures,
and Farm Equipment,                                                  100% of local expenditures
laboratory Equipment,                                                (ex-factory); 80% of local
Audiovisual and Office                                               expenditures for itens
Equiprent, Books and                                                 procured by local shopping.
Periodicals)
IV. Overseas Training                  10,120,000         1,380,000       100% of expenditures.
V. Consultants Services                1,470,000            -             100% of foreign expenditures,
90% of total expenditures for
local consultants.
VI.  Incrernental                      17,820,000         2,430,000       50% of total expenditures up
Operating Costs                                                      to an aggregate disbursenent of
US$17.0 million; 30% thereafter
until aggregate reaches US$25.0
million; and 10% thereafter./1
VII.  Initial deposit in                 4,400,000           600,000
the Special Account
to pre-finance local
expenditures under
Categories I and VI
above
VIII.  Front-end Fee                        180,050             -           Amount due.
IX.  Unallocated                       10,169,950         1,830,000
Total                       72,200,000        lO,C6O,OCO
/1  This is expected to correspond roughly to 50% during the first three years of operations, followed
by 30% in years 4 and 5 and 10% thereafter. Part of this wi11 be disbursed fron Categories VII
and IX.



- 57 -                               AN'EX i
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Percent
Disbursed
IBRDJ           Project    Cumulative Disbursements/I   Cumulative         During
Fiscal Year         Year       (US$ million equivalent)        (Percent)      Previous
IBRD         IFAD                         Semester
1985                  1
Dec. 31, 1984                      3.6          0.5              5.0           5.0
June 30, 1985                     9.0            1.2            12.5           7.5
1986                  2
Dec. 31, 1985                    16.2            2.2            22.5          10.0
June 30, 1986                    25.6           3.5             35.5          13.0
1987                  3
Dec. 31, 1986                    34.0           4.7             47.2          11.7
June 30, 1987                    41.1           5.7             57.1           9.9
1988                  4
Dec. 31, 1987                    48.2            6.7            67.0           9.9
June 30, 1988                    54.8            ?.8            76.1           9.1
1989                  5
Dec. 31, 1988                    60.2            8.3            83.6           7.5
June 30, 1989                    64.8            9.0            90.0           6.4
1990                  6
Dec. 31, 1989                    69.0            9.6            95.9           5.9
June 30, 1990                    72.0          10.0            100.0           4.1
/1 Does not include front-end fee of VS$0.2 million.



ANNEX 4
- 58 -                               Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Annual Work Program
1.       For each year of project implementation, MAFRA will prepare and
submit to the Bank for comment an Annual Work Program containing documentation
on the following aspects:
(a)  a detailed description of the work to be performed during the
forthcoming fiscal year cownencing each January 1, including the
schedules of activities under the various components of the
project, housing and offices construction progran, recruitment
and deployment of staff, vehicles and equipment requirements,
training plans, etc.;
(b)  the budgetary proposal from MAFRA for the corresponding period
setting forth for each project component;
(i)  the proposed capital expenditures;
(ii) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
travel allowances, fuel, repairs and maintenance,
agricultural inputs, etc. for the TZ service in the 16
project provinces, the EIC, the six research institutes
supported by the project and the M&E groups, together
with a breakdown of pre-development and incremental
expenditures;
(iii)  a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the budget of the previous year;
(iv) a list of proposed expenditures for technical
assistance, studies and training;
(c)  a financing plan with detailed semnesterly projections indicating
funding requirements from the Government for the various projecct
components;
(d)  the proposed procurement program and procedures to be applied
thereto;
(e)  a detailed project implementation schedule for the year in
question.



_ 59 _                              ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.       Each Annual Work Program will be supported by the following
informat ion:
(a) a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on staff
recruitment by GDAA, pre-service training and expected
assignments for the project;
(b) details on the proposed training program;
(c)  detailed schedule of activities for civil works, including land
acquisition, final designs, bidding and construction;
(d) details on specific extension activities to be undertaken in the
various provinces and counties of the project area and on
specific research programs which will be initiated or continued
at each research institute supported by the project;
(e) details on various extension approaches to be tested in specific
locations (e.g. mass media campaigns, variations in staff
densities, in contact farners selection, village approach, etc.).
3.       Each Annual Work Program will contain a detailed review of items
which impinge on project implementation, in particalar the requirements for
agricultural inputs and credit in the project area to support the operations
of the extension service, as well as any other constraints beyond GDMA's
control (provision of marketing facilities, infrastructure, etc.).
4.       The Annual Work Progrnm will be prepared by the Project
Administration Unit in GDAA's Department of Externally-Financed projects on
the basis of the work programs and budget recquests submitted by the TZ field
offices, EIC and research institutes for the corresponding year, with
assistance as needed from the internal M&E group. The Annual Work Program
will be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments before final budget
approval, i.e., by September 15 at the latest prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year. The Bank will inform MAFRA of its acceptance of, or comments on,
each proposed Annual Work Program within one month of receipt. The Bank's
approval of the proposed Annual Work Program will be based on its adequacy to
implement the agreed project objectives and the adequacy of the proposed
physical, financial and manpower resources to implement the physi-al targets
set for the corresponding year. Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year,
the Government will inform the Bank of the actual budgetary allocations and
the corresponding revised Annual Work Progran.
5.       In view of the above timing for submission of the Annual Work
Program, which is linked to the budget cycle, the identification of specific
research and extension programs for the forthcoming year will be somewhat
tentative, as further refinements and changes in their technical content may
appear necessary at the time of implementation on the basis of the results of
the most recent cropping season. Such changes would be discussed and agreed
upon at the general annual meeting to be held at the end of each year at the
central level (para 4.04).



AGRILTJRLAL EXlENSION AND APPLIED RE:ARXH PROJECr
Staridard Cadre of Extension Service in the Project Area
PRCVJ1m1AL                            CCJNIY GWIP                                  .          VLLE          GRAW
LEEL                                   LEVEL                         LEVEL                   LEVEL    _ UrAL
1 Asst. Directorate   Asst. Directorate
Support Services      Extension
r     Support           Provinrzial         Extension
ERNI'E                         Services Team         91S Team           Group 91S                                      Total   Village
Total    Total    Total               Total                                  Techni-  Group                Agri-
Total    (hief    Chief    Chief   No. of   County                  County    Agr.    cians   Techni-  Agri-   cultural
Asst.     Chief   Techni- Engineers Techni-  County   Group    No. or   Chief  Engineers  (Support) cians  cultural  Techni-
Director Director Ergineers  cians  (Prov. 94S) cians   Groups    SMSs/a Cout ies Engineers Extension  Services)  (M;T)  Engineer   cian
Ankara        1         2        4         4         8         8         3        12        20       20        20        60       162       67        234
Konya         1        2         4         4         8         8         5        20        18       18        18        54       245       71        311
Eskisehir     1        2         4         4         8         8         1         4         7        7         7        21        63       33        96
Afyon         1         2        4         4         8         8         2         8        11       11        11        33        88       45        133
Isparta      1         2         4         4         8         8         1         5       10        10        10        30        52      40         94
Burdur       1         2         4         4         8         8         1        4         6         6         6        18        37      31         67
Kutahya       1         2        4         4         8         8         2         8         7         7        7        21        85       37        118
Denizli       1        2         4         4         8         8         2         8        11       11        11        33        91       45        136
Izmir         1        2         4         4         8         8         4        20       20        20        20        60       156       75        228
Manisa        1        2         4         4         8         8         3        15        13       13        13        39       153       56        204
Balikesir     1        2         4         4         8         8         3        15       17        17        17        51       150       64       213
Canakkale     1        2         4         4         8         8         1         5        12       12        12        36        75       44        123
Bursa         1        2         4         4         8         8         3        15        111      11        11        33       157       52        202
Diyarbaki    1         2         4         4         8         8         2         8        12       12        12        36        86       47        134
Mardin        1         2        4         4         8         8         2         8        12       12        12        36        95       47        143
Urfa          1        2         4         4         8         8         2         8        10       10        10        30        87       43        129
Total     16        32       64        64       128       128        37       163       197       197      197       591     1,782      797 lb   2,565
ja  On average 4 94Ss per county group. About 15 county group teams, nmstly in the Aegean/Marnara zone, will be reinforced by one additional Q1S to pernit
the &SM team to provide direct advice to the nrre advanced farmers.
lb In addition, a team of 4 extension coordinators (2 field trial coordinators, I farm seflagenent specialist, I intformtion coordinator) will be posted at
each of the Middle Anatolian, Eskisehir, Aegean and Southeast Anatolian Research Institutes, and a team of 6 extension coordinators (4 field trials
coordinators, I farm managemsnt specialist, I information coordinator) will be posted in the Grassland arnd Animal Husbandry Research Institute.
Note: The staffing plan for the project provinces has been worked out on the basis of XGT:faxmer ratios in rainfed areas of 1:550 in the Western
Transitional (Afyon, Isparta, Burdur, Kutahya, Denizli) a-d Southeast Anatolian (Diyarbakir, Mardin, Urfa) regions; 1;600 in the Central Anatolian
region (Arkars, Xorya, Eskisehir); and 1:650 in the Aegean/Marmara region (Izmir, Manisa, Balikesir, Canakkale, burma). Further adjustieats have
been made on the basis of a detailed field survey of the project area done by GDAA in Pkigust/Septenber 1983, during which village group centers have
been identified.



URKEY
AGNWRIWLTRAL EXTENSICN AND APPLIED RESEARCl PRQOECT
Extension Staff: Total Rquirement, Existiing Staff and Incre tam   Reauireent
PROINCIAL L1                              GROXP             XUN1 LEVEL           VIILAE           TOL
LEVEL      _LEVEL
Assistant Ch. Ergs. Ch. Tech.   Prov.   Ch. Tech. Extension  County   Agr. Erg.  County                    Agr.      Agr.
Direztors Directors (Sup Svss) (Sup Svss)  S3Sa       (94Ss)   Graup SMSs  CAE       (Extn)    Tochs.      UGTs       Engs./b Techs.
Ankara       R/a      1          2         4          4         8          8         12        20         20        60.       162        67       234
E       1          2          4         4          8         8          -         20         2         60        37        37        109
I       -          -          -         -          -         -         12         -         18          -       125        30        125
Kora         R        1          2         4          4         8          8         20        18         18        54        245        71       311
E        1         2          4         4          8         8          -         18         6         54        172       39        238
I       -          -          -         -          -         -         20          -        12          -        73        32         73
Eskisehir    R        1          2         4          4          8         8          4          7         7         21        63        33        96
E        1         2          4         4          8          8         -          7         -         21        23        22         56                   1
I       _          _          _         _          _         _          4          -         7          -        40        11        40                   o
Afyon        R        1          2         4          4         8          8          8         11        11         33        88        45        133                   1
E       1          2          2         4          5         8          -         4          -         33         73       14        118
I       -          -         2          -          3         -          8          7        11          -        15        31         15
Isparta      R        1          2         4          4         8          8          5         10        10         30        32        40        94
E       1          2          4         4          1         8          -          5         -         30        41        13         83
I       -          -          -         -          7         -          5          5        10          -        11        27         11
uirdur       R        1         2          4          4         8          8         4          6          6         18        37        31        67
r   1     2          4         4          2          8         -          6         1         18        55        16         85
I       _          -          -         -          6         -          4          -         5          -       (-18)      15       (-18)
Kutahya      R        1          2         4          4          8         8          8         7          7         21        85        37        118
E        1         2          1         4          -         8          -          6         -         21        54        10         87
I       -          -          3         -          8         -          8          1         7          -        31        27         31
Denizli      R        1          2         4          4         8          8          8         11        11        33         91        45        136                1.>
E        1         2          4         4          7          8         -          4         -         33        62        18        107
I   _     _          _         -          1          -         8          7         11         -         29       27         29
i '



Extension Staff: Total Requireant, Existing Staff ard Iwrreantal Requirement (cont'd)
I 0UNI                                    VILLAGE
PRWVI1'IAL LEVEL                         IEVEL             (X3Y IEVEL              LEVEL            TmL
Assistant Ch. Engs. (Ch. Tech.  Prav.  Ch. Teclh. Extension   County   Agr. Eng. County                    Agr.       Agr.
Directors Directors (9.Dp Svss) (SUp Svss)  9S1s      (%IS3) Group 94Ss  CAE        (Extn)   Techs.       wATs       Engs./b   Techs.
Izair         R         1         2          4          4         8         8         20        20        20        60        156          75       228
E         1         2          4          4         8         8         20        20        20        60         10         75         82
I        -          -          -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -        146          -        146
Inisa         R         1         2          4          4         8         8         15        13         13       39         153         56        204
E         1         2          4          4         8         8          1        13        13        39         74         42         125
I         -         -          -          -         -         -         14         -         -         -         79         14         79
Balikesir    R          1         2          4          4         8         8         15        17         17       51         150         64        213
1         2         4          4          5         8          -        17         2        51         97         31        160
-         -          -          -         3         -         15         -        15         -         53         33         53
Cannakale     R         1         2          4          4         8         8          5        12        12        36          75        44         123
E         1         2          4          4         3         8          -         9         -        36         50         19         98
I         -         -          -          -         5         -          5         3        12         -         25         25         25
Bursa         R         1         2          4          4         8         8         15        11        11        33         157         52        202                      1
E         1         2          4          4         8         8          -        11         8        33         73         34         118
I        _          _          _          _         _         _         15         _         3         -         84         18         84
Diyarbakir   R          1         2          4          4         8         8          8         12        12        36         86         47        134
E         1         2          2          4         -         8          -         1         -        36         24          6          72
I         -         -          2          -         8         -          8        11        12         -         62         41         62
Mardui        R         1         2          4          4         8          8         8         12        12        36         95         47        143
E         1         2          2          4         -                    -         4         -        36         36          9         84
I         -         -          2          -         8         -          8         8        12         -         59         38         59
Urfa          R         1         2          4          4         8         8          8         10        10        30         87         43        129
E         1         2          4          4         4         8          -         2         -        30         21          13        63
I   1    -          -          -          -         4         -          8         8        10         -         66         30          66
IUTAL         R        16        32         64         64       128       128        163        197       197      591       1,782        797      2,565
E        16        32         55         64        75       128         21       147        52       591        902        398       1,685
_ -                 -          9          -        53         -        142        50       145         -        880        399 /b     880
/a  R = Requirent, E = Existing (as of moid-1983), I = Incrrwntal.
/b  In addition, a tean of 4 extension coordi;witors (2 field trial coordinators, 1 farm xgnagement specialist, 1 information coordinator) will be posted                     >
at each of the Middie Anatolian, Eskisehir, Aegean and South East Anatolian Research Institutes, and a teau of 6 extension coordinators (4 field                          Ml
trial coordinators, 1 farm ranageaent specialist, 1 information coordinator) will be posted at the Grasslarn arnd Aninal Husbandry Research                               x
Institute. The total nunber of incrmaental agricultural engineers belonging to the extension service will thus be 399 + 22 = 421.



A3RIOJLMU?L EXNSION AND APPLIED RE9AEI PROJBC
Excension Baildins:  Total Requirat, Existing and Inrerntal Requireiat
Province           Provire           Couty Group              Conty               County               Wf Housi/
Offices            lEsirE/b               /i                 Off ices/d          IusingJe                Offices
R   E   Ia        R    E    I         R   E    I            R    E    I         R     E    I          R    E        I
Ankara            1    1   -          15    6    9        12   -   12         20    8   12        100    36    64        162    -    162
Kyoa              I    1   -          15   1   14         20   -   20          17   14   3         90     6    84        245   116    129
Eskisehir         1    1   -          15    -   15         4    -   4          6   -    6          35     2    33         63     1    62
Afyon             1   -    1          15    -   15         8    -    8         10    3    7        55     2    53         88     5     83
Isparta           1    1   -          15    -   15         5   -    5          9    1   8          50     2   48          52     5     47
Burdur           1    1   -         15  10    5           4    -    4         5    1   4         30      -    30         37     2     35
Kutahya           1   -    1          15  10    5          8    -    8         6    1   5          35     2    33         85     -     85
Denizli           1    1   -          15   2   13          8    -    8        10    5    5         55     5    50         91     -     91                              a'
lzmir             1   -    1          15    -   15        20   -   20         19   15   4         100    28    72        156    15   141
Manisa            I 1       -         15    2   13        15   -   15          12   9    3         65     2    63        153    26    127
Balikesir         I 1       -        15    6    9         15   -   15         16   4   12          85     1   84         150     2    148
Canmakale         1   -    1          15   1   14          5   -    5         11   8   3           60     3    57         75     8     67
Bursa             I   -  I            15   13    2        15   - 15           10   8    2          55    11   44         157     1    156
Diyarbakir        1    1   -          15  10    5          8    -    8        11    3    8         60     4    56         36     -     86
Mardin            1    1   -          15    -   15         8    -    8         11   4    7         60     3    57         95     -     95
Urfa              1   -    1          15    -   15         8    -    8         9    6    3         50     Z   48          87     -     87
Total          16  10    6        240   61  179        163    -  163       182  90   92        985   109   876       1,782   181  1,601
/a  R = ReQuiretnt, E = Existing, I = Increnstal.
/b For provincial IZ directors and their deputies, provincial &dSs and chief engineers of support services team.
/c  For county-group SASs.
/d  Excludes central countries (Merkez) sharing office with provincial IZ staff.
z
/e For county staff iec-ludirg engineers and technicians (mLpport services).



- 64 -                                                             ANNEX 8
TURKKY
AG RICULTURAL SXTENS ION AND) APPLIED RESEARCH  PROJECT
Extension Vehicles:   Total RequirementL Existing and Incremental Requirements
(Indicative)
COUNTY                                                   TOTAL REQU IRED)
P'ROV]NCE                              GR(UP               COllNTY  /c         VILLAGE;               (No.')
o                 a >
C      C               4 C             C                o C               C-       -'    UQ              
4._     0                 0I .                                C0             .'U
0                                                               = , o  C  )   )      .0    U                            gU
V w    V<        r       i        r                 l        u       ' Lo (-.I      'S C    '( s        O,                J        .
i      c In           V                                                      C        V    C_  .    _:
o       0                 0                 0                 0         1 0                                                0 0  5
ml                         '                uta                          . .o..                                        2 1 4
Denizli  I 44-. 1  el 2   4 14 14 2                  10) 2             2                                  411       2         16
e*9     :- -1           ~A                                                I   .c         .    o                                              -4
0..-    0         01      0         0-      0        0L.      0        0.    04.)    0-4    0..          Ui         V      0        0.        U
Im  I        1    4 2       1         1        2        1     4       4       20      20       20 a      56        2       -       a
'-'0    ~~44fl  H  4-)  .0)  4-4  M        U       .0)    4-4~ ~~~0 & .0).   .0)0   0   C,              J       .0)  
U   4.4       0..                                   {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  Or  -.                      V1       -.4
Ankara                  1       1        2        1       1        2        1       3        3      20       20       20       162        2      28       45       162
Konya                   I       1        2        I       1        2        1       5        5       18      18       18       245        2      28       43       245
Eskisehir               1       1        1        1       1        2        1        1       1        7        7       7        63        1       13      17        63
Afyon                  I        1        2        1       1        2        1       2        2       11      11       11        86        2      18       26        88
Isparta                I        I        I       1        1        2        1       1        1      10       10       it)       52        1      16       23        52
Burdur                 1        1        I       I        1        2        1       1        1        6       6        6        37        1      12       15        37
Kutahya                 I       1        2        1       1        2        i       2        2        7        7       7        85        2       14      18        85
Deaizli                I        1        2        1       1        2        1       2        2       11      12       11        91        2      18       26        91
Izmir                  1        1        2        1       1        2        1       4        4      20       20       20       156        2      29       46       156
Manisa                  1       1        2        1       1        2        1       3        3       13      13       13       153        2      21       31       153
Balikesir              1        1        2       1        1        2        1       3        3      17       17       17       150        2      25       39       150
Canakkale               I       1        1        1       1        2        1        1       1       12      12       12        75        1       18      27        75
Bursa                  I        1        2        1       I        2        1       3        3      11       11       11       157        2      19       27       157
D2iyarbakir            I        1        2       1        1        2        1       7        2       12      12       12        86        2      19       28        86
Mardin                 I        1        2        1       1        2        1       2        2       12      12       12        95        2       19      28        95
Ulrfa                  1        1        2        1       1        2        1       2        2       10      10       10        87        2       17      24        87
Total               16      16       28       16       16      32       16       37      37      197      197     197    1.782        28      314     463     1,8
Extension
Coord inators/d                                                                                                                           -        5       5-
Nieadquart ers
(Dept. of                                                                                                                                 3       6        -         -
Extension)/e
Grand Total                                                                                                                            31     325     468    1,782
Less Existing
Vehicles/f                                                                                                                                -      63        -       150
Incremental
No. Required                                                                                                                           31     262     468    1,632
/a   1-2 minibus per province uLsed as a pool, in particular for training, field trips, etc.
__   1 stat ion wagon and 1 pickup  Eor each extension  group.
/c   In each county, I station  wagon for the CAE, I pickup for the agricuiltural engineer in charge of extension  (when there  is one),
and I pickup for the team of 3 technicians for support services.
/d   I station wagon and  1 pickup  for each  team of extension coordinsto's at the Grassland and Animal Husbandry, Middle Anatolia,
Eskisehir, Aegean and South-East Anatolian Research Institutes.
/e   I station wagon for the Director of Extension and I for the extension consultant, 4 station wagons and 2 minibuses for the  four
central SMS teams, plus I minibus for the pool of the Extension Department.
/f  New vehicles distributed under the Second Crop and Fallow Reduction Programns.
Note:  Adjuatments as to the types of vehicles requlired will be made during  implementation depending on the situation  in the various
provinces and counties.



- 65 -
ANNE.X 9
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing Schedule for Consultants
(man-month s)
PYl   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   PY6   Total
Agricultural extension specialists:
Long-term consultant                       9    12      3     -      -     -     24
Short-term consultants                     6     -      3     3      -     -     12
Audiovisual/media specialist                   6    12     6      -     -     -      24
Documentation specialist                      3      9     -     -      -     -      12
Monitoring and evaluation specialists:
Management (internal M&E) consultant       8      2     2     -      -     -      12
Policy (external M&E) consultant           -     2      2     -      -     -      4
Research consultancies                        2      2     3      3     2     -      12
Technical assistance for ministerial
working groups on research and
extension                                    4      4     -      -     -     -       8
Assistance for preparation of
repeater projects                            -      -     2     -      _     -       2
Total                                                                         110
PY = Project Year (12 calendar months).
PY1 = April 1984 - March 1985.



- 66 -                             ANNEX 10
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for the Working Groups
on Research and Extension
1.       Under SAL IV, the Government has agreed to establish two working
groups with responsibility, respectively, to;
(a) set priorities for the use of research and to dcvelop medium-term
plans for reorganizing and consolidating agricultural research
activities;
(b) develop medium-term plans for reorganizing and consolidating the
Government's diverse extension services including decentraliza-
tion of responsibility to the regional level in addition to
improving links with agricultural research.
A considerable improvement along this line has already been accomplished
recently by the integration of the Ministry of AgriculPare and Forestry and
the Ministry of Village Affairs (MAFRA).
2.       Said Working Groups are to include representatives from the
appropriate Directorates of MAFRA and other agencies involved in the provision
of agricultural research and extension services.
3.       It is expected that the working groups would complete the first phase
of their work during the time that the MAFRA is to finalize its restructuring
in order to facilitate the use of the findings of these working groups within
MAFRA. Two consultants of 4 months each for research and for extension are
included in the project in order to assist in carrying out some aspects of the
terms of reference outlined below, including in particular the preparation of
the longer-term action plan referred to in paragraph 11.
4.       The Working Group on Agricultural Research would be responsible for
setting clear medium and long-term priorities for agricultural research in
Turkey on the basis of:
(a) analysis of overall national priorities and plani objectives for
the agricultural sector;
(b)  identification of main technological constraints presently
limiting productivity for the priority commodities, and of
possible advances in agricultural technolog' which could be made
available to farmers within the foreseeable future following
additional research. This task would be carried out in close
collaboration with experienced research scientists and with due



- 67 -                               ANNEX 10
Page 2
consideration for the availability of improved technology in
other countries which could be adapted to Turkey with limited
additional research;
(c)  priority ranking of the research programs so identified, taking
into account factors such as the expected cost and duration of
the research effort required, the likelihood of successful
research results, the magnitude of the expected productivity
increase, the prospects for extensive and immediate adoption of
research findings by farmers and the resulting impact on national
production, the effect on other areas of national concern such as
employment generation or reduction of income disparities between
regions, etc.
5.       Through the above process, national objectives for the agricultural
sector would be systematically turned into priorities for agricultural
research. The working group would make specific recommendations on a
comprehensive set of research programs to be carried out in the medium-term,
taking into account these priorities and the overall manpower and financial
resources available for conducting agricultural research in Turkey. While it
is expected that the current emphasis on applied research would continue, this
systematic review of research priorities would probably lead to changes in
emphasis among different research activities, with higher concentration of
resources on a smaller number of carefully articulated research programs and
projects. The findings of the working group on agricultural research would
also permit a balanced assessment of the scope and trade-offs involved in
increasing research in areas which have been given little emphasis up to now
(development of adapted farm machinery and equipment, research on economically
efficient use of chemical inputs, cropping systems and cultivation practices,
animal husbandry, etc.).
6.       The working group on agricultural research would also recommend
measures to improve the overall effectiveness of the national research
system. The recommendations on research organization would encompass various
public agencies involved in agricultural research including with special
emphasis MAFRA's general directorates or departments of GDAA, GDPPQ, GDVA,
Forestry, Food Affairs, TOPRAKSU, and Fisheries.
7.       Specific recommendations would be made on the internal organization
and operational procedures for the existing research agencies to improve the
cooperation between them and thie extension service and to achieve better
coordination of research concerning inter-related agricultural activities.
Consideration would be given to the possibility of redefining the research
responsibilities of the various concerned agencies where this would result in
better coordination of inter-related efforts.



- 68 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 3
8.        Specific recommendations would be made on the possible advantages of:
(a) Reorganization/consolidation of the existing network of field
research institutes and stations presently under the jurisdiction
of various agencies; and
(b) measures for ensuring greater coordination among stations in each
major agro-ecological region of the country, including
redefinition of the responsibilities and authority of the
regional research institutes vis-a-vis other stations in the same
region.
Working Group on Agricultural Extension
9.       The working group on agricultural extension would be responsible for
recommending measures to improve the effectiveness of the national
agricultural extension system. The recommendations on extension would
encompass the various public agencies involved in agricultural extension
including with special emphasis MAFRA's general directorates or departments of
Agricultural Affairs (GDAA), Plant Protection and Quarantine (GDPPQ),
Veterinary Affairs (GDVA), Livestock Development (LDP), TOPRAKSU and Forest
Villages (ORKOY).
10.      Specific recommendations would be made on the internal organization
and operational procedures for the agencies involved including consideration
where appropriate of the possibility for redefining the distribution of
extension responsibilities so as to achieve:
(a) improved coordination of activities at the regional level,
together with adequate decentralization to permit increased
flexibility and effectiveness in day-to-day implementation of
the exteasion program at the regional and local levels;
(b)  improved field coordination of extension activities and
service-oriented activities such as animal vaccination or plant
protection campaigns;
(c) improved linkages with agricultural research to facilitate
transfer of technology and feed-back from farmers and the
extension service to focus the research effort on priority
production problems;
(d)  to the extent possible, the provision to farmers of unified
extension advice encompassing on an integrated basis the various
aspects of crop and livestock agriculture with which they are
involved.



- 69 -                                 ANNEX jO
Page 4
Action Plan
11.      The recommendations of the working groups on research and extension
would be reviewed within the Ministry and an Action Plan would be developed
and discussed with the Bank not later than June 30, 1986, including:
(a) review of progress made in proceeding with recommended changes
to improve the quality and coordination of research and
extension services, and timetable for such further changes as
considered desirable;
(b) medium-term plans for staff redeployment, recruitment and
training taking account the various proposals for improvement of
extension and research services. Such plans would be based on a
detailed analysis of existing staff resources and available
skills for research and extension, and a comprehensive
assessment of additional manpower and training programs needed
to strengthen the research/extension institutions. Specific
training programs for existing research/extension staff would be
developed, identifying the staff to be trained and their
numbers, together with an outline of the context and curriculae
of such training and a timetable and cost estimates for the
proposed training program. Projections of future manpower
requirements and recruitment would be made, together with
proposals for adjusting curricula and enrollment in formal
training institutions, such as agricultural technicians high
schools, accordingly and for improving pre- and in-service
training of new recruits.
(c) needs for additional facilities, vehicles and equipment under
the proposed agricultural research and extension arrangements
and medium-term projections of investment and recurrent budget
requ irernent s.



- 70 -
ANNEX 11I
Page I
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports Relating to the Sector or Subsector
Al.   IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Sector Survey, Report No. 1684-TU,
June 23, 1978
A2.   IBRD, Turkey - Public Sector Investment Review, Report No. 3472-TU,
December 7, 1981
A3.   IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development:  Problems and Opportunities,
Report No. 3178a-TU, May 7, 1981
A4.   IBRD, Turkey - Industrialization and Trade Strategy,
Report No. 3641-TU, February 18, 1982
A5.   IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with
Exports, Report No. 4204-TU, June 30, 1983
A6.   Agricultural Structure and Production, State Institute of Statistics,
Ankara
(i) 1974-76; (ii) 1975-77; (iii) 1976-78; (iv) 1979; (v) 1980
A7.   Summary of Agricultural Statistics:  1981, State Institute of
Statistics, Ankara
A8.   Information, Organization and Agricultural Change (A Study of
Agricultural Extension in the Mid-Aegean Region of Turkey),
A. R. Fitzherbert, Ege University, Izmir, 1980
A9.   IBRD, Turkey - Seyhan Irrigation Project Phase II, Completion Report,
April 12, 1979
A10.  IBRD, Turkey - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion Project, PPAR,
Report No. 3515, June 23, 1981
All.  IBRD, Turkey - Fruit and Vegetable Export Project, PPAR, Report No. 4265,
December 30, 1982
A12.  IBRD, Strengthening Agricultural Research and Extension - The World Bank
Experience, Report No. 4684, September 1, 1983



- 71 -                                 ANNEK I I
Page 2
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl.   Preparation Report - Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
, General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs, MAF, Turkey
vo umes)
B2.   Agricultural Research Organization and Activities of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, Ankara, November 1982
B3.   Research Projects of the General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs,
1982 Evaluation Results, Ankara, April 1983
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl.   Detailed Cost Estimates
C2.   Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited Consultants
C3.   Outline of Protocols to be Signed between GDAA and Other Agencies
C4.   Outline of Terms of Reference for Working Groups in Research and
Extension
C5.   Outline of the Mid-Term Review
C6.   Agricultural Extension
C7.   Extension Information Center
C8.   Agricultural Research
C9.   Grassland, Forage and Animal Production Research
C10. Monitoring and Evaluation
Cll. Civil Works
C12. Miscellaneous



TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Organi2ation Chart of the General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA)
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA)
General Director
Secretanot
Deputy General                  Deputy General                  Deputy General                  Deputy General
Director                        Director                        Director                        DireCtor                                      s
h r. W r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rainirP;ning; '~~
ExtensLonl                     Department                             l u~et
_ . Depc1rtm                    Deparment                         ticon  S                       Depnr _=t
Deparrnent of D,eprtmentX ArricuAtugalnc
:.Technical            .,rSeeds                                  Plant Nutrition        !         Economics& 
_     Crnoperotion & *-:_           Department                _     Department                 _ss  SatcistiCS s --f
CSr(oordination :.:                                                                            >>--sDepartrnent:9
. 1                      ~~~~~~~Deportrnent for             AgAdCUntUrcil                  Depwtment oi 
vExternally Finonced         _      Natiornal                     Mechanization                   Personnel Alfairs
Depotment Directly olvein Projects  jDisomlers mtDepoartment                                      &WAdministrationk
E    Deportmnent Directly Invohved in Project Irnplernentration                                   Wogd Bank-25526



- 73 -
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Project OrganIzatlon Chart
-    Mm,ervdS?ottoI;;;;
IS MS                - nAQAeolwoe
P~'~CLAIPXLE'L                                            I       
Ron.noI Oz,cTo.ote               //
CENTPA LM
A-~t                               71 - - 
IvI SUSm lehn       TeCont
ll'GION/iL LE9EI 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ohl / ,  1 Agercies
l                              l ootcfncten}          ( Wosshops   S           ~~~~~~~~~~~~tGDPPo GDVA, LDP
Chef A.y.cuiLeo~ ~n oos, /. /                                                )
smowlNCAlT^kMO lOhM,C'                   A urIcCM  101  Engcoco.     -  -               /    / 
PRANL&  LVAL
|AwssaM Doneclo|        Ashsoyll ;/                              /
%p"~~~~~~          STrslernm
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~acrtou li r/
CONWILEWt                                                   I         Clo
6    | Chsst Aa,=Cu  l nroy foI /| 
|Ag-Mluo lcni              Agmluitdl Engmor  |       [       S  
AltLAG4i LEVfl|                                                     V:lrGco         |  
c|m F Olrnos|
W cld a-k    ICJ



TURKEY
AGRICULIURAL EXTENSON AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
alU  8    *9~~~83  1,,     8.84           8986      1      98              399      [      3988_    I      83388  
E -                   T                            1 W  I  W   |  }   !   .    t   ^  t   t   E  v                .
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                    I X                    I      
wM- Mw- w      - w                   - - 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"M'  o
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o r                                                *Mwm
9803!039G8 V93A8LI'



30                                                         3'5'
BULGARIA
KIRKLARELI                                                  I                 ) SINOP
*  \Ki_.Lr-~ 7 ? KASTAMONU
*IAIN B                                             ZONGULDAK                                SAMSUN
j .S,(* TEKIRDAG   . I
g  i  /  KOCAELI.f    [       >                          t   AMASYA    K
SA         BOLU .         %A\ CANKIRI   \  CORUM             -
2  ; ~~~~~~~~~J. ... SAKAR A                            .........../\-.  i %OA .
7    N                           ~~~~~~~~~TOK<AT 
4'  CANAKKALE  N               BURSA      BILFCIKf.
BALIKESIR                                                                       YOZGAT                SI
,1 l : BALIKESIR . J.\ ESKISEHiR \ANKARAr\
,ESKISEHIR@                   \ KIRSEHIR r\        .,^mRSEH'
, \ ;. S ~~KUTAHYA >qrf
MANISA                                                                   EVSEHI      KAYSERI
,  IZMIR     <               y        ~       >                   (^ _  _ > NIGDE                    i  MAR
:   t  J   ISPARTA 2>        ~KONYA               \)      r 
AYDIN         DENiZLI
{ - 8 ! BURDUR \  tsf  t                                       ADANA
MUGLA   >      i   I                        ob                     /           ]
._ rf ,/ gANTALYA  
ICEL
-35'                                  f                                  >_HATA',
30                                                          3s



__________________________________________   ___________________________   _________                       I BR  0    1!,IBR   95I P, 9
NOVI M(31 II In1
40'
K,  ,'    j                                            >   ARThVIN
t<!/1   -2   $   | KARS
-~~~~~~~~)c_ ORDLJs                  /(t 
ORD L              GIKE StJN
^y  f    |      .  ~GUMUSFIANI         1      I-Y'J?M.. 
- y --. - AGRI                        J                                         _
ERZINCAN                                                                             ISLAMIC                        40
SIVAS                                                        \                                                            ,f  / :-   [   K  REPUBLIC OF
.          T lUNCELI         )J   MUS                       -
/   VAiN                   I RAN
BITLIS 
) MALATYA               EAI 
- --\,   y   /.           DIYARBAKIR          i          SIIRT                  -                    i
fi  -  !      >           /\              t_ .    ._A                             HAK KARI 
MARAS            A0IYAMAN        J                          r      ARDIN
J   1               URFA                .      ,-U
S                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND
GAZIANTEP                                                                                  APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
/0-01                *PROJECT AREA
t  SYRIAN   ARAB  RE- PUlBLIC                                                                PROVINCES UENDER [IIE PROJECT IREORGANIZATION AND
SrRE NSTIlrNING O IHf TZi EXTENSION SEfRVICEI
r                                                                                           }42   AGRICULTIUAL RESEARCH INSTITUTES
*                                   -                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRENG]I-ENED UNDER THIE PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RLGION BOUNDARIES ISIS ClASSIrICAlHON)
NAfIONAL CAPITAL
0      40     80    120    160                                                -  PROVINCIAL EIOUNOARIES
KILOMEtERS                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAIIES
40



