Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ILEP W P
Report No. P-3713-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$72.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJE
March 19, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency
Unit           Jan. 1980 1/       Jan. 1982       Jan. 1983       January 1984
US Dollar  -    TL  70.00             TL  139.60      TL  191.15      TL  309.20
TL 1       -    US$  0.014            US$   0.007    US$   0.005    US$   0.003
1/ Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL 270/$1 (the
December 1983 exchange rate) was used for Parts III and IV of this report.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                    March 1 to February 28 (through 1981)
March 1 to December 31 (1982)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1983)
LIST OF ABBREViATIONS
EIC       -   Extension Information Center
GDAA      -   General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of
MAFRA
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
MAFRA     -   Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Affairs
M&E       -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MPWR      -   Ministry of Public Works and Resettlement
PAU       -   Project Administration Unit in GDAA's Department of
Externally-Financed Projects
SEE       -   State Economic Enterprise
SEKER     -   Turkish Sugar Factories, an SEE
SMS       -   Subject Matter Specialist
SPO       -   State Planning Organization
TCZB      -   Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TEKEL     -   Tea & Tobacco Monopoly, a Parastatal
TOPRAKSU  -   Land and Water Development Agency of MAFRA
TZ        -   Teknik Ziraat, the Field Extension Service of GDAA
VGT       -   Village Group Technician



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
Borrower:                Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiary.             The General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA)
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural
Affairs
Amount:                  US$72.2 million (including capitalized front-end fee).
Terms:                   Seventeen years including four years of grace, with
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:    The project would finance reorganization and
strengthening of the GDAA extension services in 16
provinces, together with support to six major research
institutes of GDAA serving the project area.
Benefits and Risks:      The project is intended to be a first step in a
program to improve methods of agricultural extension
and applied research ultimately on a nationwide
basis. It is expected to increase agricultural
productivity and agricultural incomes in the project
area, contribute to institution building within GDAA,
and to permit testing and refinement of techniques
prior to their extension to the whole country. While
many of the reforms to be introduced have been
successfully applied on a pilot basis in previous Bank
projects, they involve changes in the way staff have
operated over many years and there is a risk that they
may not be fully accepted. There is also a risk of
delays due to procedural problems or inadequate
budgetary support. However, the support of Government
for the reforms, and arrangements made for annual
review of work program and local budgetary
allocations, should reduce these risks. Finally a
mid-term review provides an opportunity for
adjustments in light of experience.  To achieve
maximum benefits, the reforms introduced under this
project should be supplemented by further reforms, to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
extension and research systems. Two ministerial
working groups will be established to develop
proposals for such further reforms.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
US$ Million
Estimated Project Costs                         Local      Foreign   Total
Extension Service
Buildings, Vehicles & Equipment              52.6        26.4      79.0
Incremental Staff & Operational Costs    32.9            15.6      48.5
Sub-Total                              85.5        42.0    127.5
Extension Information Center
Buildings, Vehicles & Equipment               D.5         0.7       1.2
Incremental Staff & Operational Costs         1.5         1.7       3.2
Sub-Total                               2.0         2.4       4.4
Applied Research
Buildings, Vehicles & Equipment               5.0         7.3      12.3
Incremental Staff & Operational Costs         4.1         3.5       7.6
Sub-Total                               5.1        10.8      19.9
Project Management and M&E
Monitoring and Evaluation                     0.8         0.2       1.0
Project Management                            0.0         0.1       0.1
Sub-Total                               0.8         0.3       1.1
Training
In-Service                                    o.4         -         0.4
Overseas                                      -          11.3      11.3
Sub-Total                               0.4        11.3      11.7
Technical Assistance                              0.2         1.5       1.7
Total Base Costs                                 98.0        68.3    166.3
Physical Contingencies                        5.7         1.4       7.1
Price Contingencies                          20.0        12.3      32.3
Total Project Costs                             123.7 1/    82.0    205.7
Front-End Fee                                     -           0.2       0.2
Total Financing Required                        123.7 1/    82.2    205.9
1/ Includes $8.0 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



--iii-
US$ Million
Financing Plan:                                Local      Foreign   Total
Bank                                         -         72.2       72.2
International Fund for Agricultural          -         10.0      10.0
Development (IFAD)
Government                                 123.7        -        123.7
123.7      82.2      205.9
$l        Estimated Bank Disbursement
Bank FY                1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual                   9.2    16.6    15.5    13.7    10.0        7.2
Cumulative              9.2    25.8    41.3    55.0    65.0    72.2
Economic Rate of Return            Not applicable
Appraisal Report                   No. 4818-TU dated March 13, 1984



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED RESEARCH PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$72.2 million to help
finance an Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years including 4 years grace, with interest at the
prevailing rate. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
is expected to co-finance the project with a loan of US$10 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic mission visited Turkey in June 1982, and its report
entitled "Turkey: Country Economic Memorandum, Recent Economic Developments
and Medium-Term Prospects" (No. 4287-TU) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1983. The report, in addition to analyzing Turkey's
medium-term prospects and overall creditworthiness, presents a synthesis of
earlier special economic reports on aspects of Turkey's adjustment process.
The report of the mission to review the financial system, entitled: "Turkey:
Special Economic Report - Policies for the Financial Sector" (No. 4459-TU),
was distributed in September 1983. An economic mission visited Turkey in
January 1984 to review the economic developments of 1983, the 1984 Annual
Program and selected structural adjustment issues. The findings of this
mission are reflected in this section.
3.       Turkey is about as large as France and Germany combined, with a
population of around 46 million and an estimated GNP per capita of $1540 in
1981. The density of population is low (78 per square kilometer of
agricultural land), and about 45 percent live in urban centres. Population
growth (2.2 percent per annum) is below the median for middle-income
countries. Despite rapid economic growth in the mid-1970s as well as
substantial emigration of workers (to Western Europe and more recently, to the
Middle East), the employment situation has deteriorated steadily with an
unemployment rate currently about 18 percent. There is, however, little or no
absolute poverty, although income distribution is skewed. There are
considerable regional differences in income and large rural-urban
disparities. Recent data indicate a probable worsening in income
distribution, especially of wage and salary earners, and a sharp real decline
in average earnings. Educational enrollments have expanded greatly but the
level of adult literacy remains relatively low (60 percent in 1975).
1/       Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Industrial Training Project (P-3660-TU),
dated March 5, 1984.



-2-
Background
4.       During the 1970s Turkey did not make the necessary adjustments to the
shocks caused by the steep rise in oil prices, stagflation in the OECD
economies, and the consequent deterioration in the terms of external trade.
Until 1977 Turkey maintained high rates of economic growth by raising the
share of investment in GDP. This was financed initially by workers'
remittances and, following the quacdrupling of oil prices, increasingly by
short-term borrowing. The rapid GNP growth came! to an abrupt halt in 1977 as
the massive external debt burden led to a sharp deterioration in
creditworthiness, severe shortages of imports, and disruptions in industrial
production with a rise in unemployment.  By the end of 1979, domestic
inflation had also become an issue of critical importance.
5.       The Turkish authorities' response to the crisis of the late 1970s was
a major shift in development strategy in 1980, moving towards outward
orientation and giving an increased role to market forces. Policies were
adopted to expand exports and increase workers' remittances which, together
with liberalization of imports, encouragement of foreign investment and
prudent external debt management, were aimed at alleviating the balance of
payments constraint and import shortages. On the domestic front, the
objectives were a reduction in the inflation rate, reform of the State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs), a more efficient financial sector, improved
resource mobilization and better selection of investments, especially in the
public sector.
6.       The adjustment program, which has been supported by the Bank through
four structural adjustment loans so far, involves far-reaching changes
affecting all facets of the Turkish economy. It entails substantial changes
in attitudes, institutions, and the legal and po:Licy framework, all of which
take time and are difficult to put in place. In view of the severity of the
crisis in 1979, and the urgent need to bring down inflation and stabilize the
balance of payments as quickly as possible, the Government accepted the need
for a temporary sacrifice of growth and social objectives. Major structural
changes were made in the operation of the exchange rate regime, the tax
system, interest rate policy, export strategy, the SEE sector and public
investment policy.
7.       The implementation of the program was carried out by a military
regime which assumed power in September 1980 following a period of sustained
unrest. Subsequently a Consultative Assembly was set up to draft a new
constitution, which was overwhelmingly endorsed in a nationwide referendum in
November 1982. New election and party laws were then promulgated, and
parliamentary elections completed in November 1983. A new Government assumed
office in December 1983.
The Structural Adjustment Process -- 1980-83
8.       The Turkish economy has shown an impressive response to the program
and actual performance met or exceeded the Government's own targets through
1982. By contrast, results in 1983 proved to be rmixed, due in part to the
adverse economic developments on the external front, severe slippages in the
monetary program, and Government inertia in the face of upcoming elections.



-3-
9.       Real GNP, after falling for two consecutive years, expanded by
4.2 percent in 1981 and 4.6 percent in 1982. Growth was mainly export-led,
with less than one-quarter of the growth in 1982 due to domestic demand.
Demand for consumption increased by 3 percent while fixed investment grew at a
modest 4.1 percent (both in real terms) in 1982, and depletion of inventories
helped to expand supply. Public investment grew significantly slower than
private investment, thus reversing the trend of previous years. However,
unemployment continued to grow as employment opportunities did not increase
fast enough to absorb the expansion of the labor force. GNP growth slowed
down in 1983 to about 3.2 percent as against the target of 4.8 percent, due in
large part to adverse weather conditions and a consequent decrease in
agricultural value added. Industrial value added is estimated to have
registered a growth of 6.6 percent as against the program target of
5.5 percent. Total fixed investment increased by about 4.2 percent. As in
the previous two years, private fixed investment grew faster than public fixed
investment (5.7 percent versus 3.2 percent).
10.      The Government has been remarkably successful in reducing the rate of
inflation through a combination of fiscal, monetary and income policies,
although the downward trend was reversed in 1983. After peaking at
107 percent in 1980, the annual average rate of increase in the wholesale
price index declined to 37 percent in 1981, and around 25 percent in 1982,
which was the program target. In 1983, it rose to 31.4 percent, as against
the program target of 20 percent. The rise was fueled by an expansion of
Central Bank credits to the private sector during the second half of 1983, as
the Government moved to extend credits to firms and commercial banks in
difficulty. The resulting liquidity expansion, in conjunction with a lowering
of nominal deposit rates, encouraged consumption at the expense of savings
(consumption increased by 4.2 percent) and thus lies at the root cause of the
inflation trend reversal.
11.      Commercial bank interest rates which were deregulated in July 1980
have increased substantially and are now markedly positive in real terms. As
a result, total bank deposits increased by 72 percent in 1980 over 1979, and
in 1981 this trend accelerated, with total deposits growing by 104 percent and
time deposits by 263 percent. Growth in deposits slowed somewhat in 1982 and
1983. The bankruptcy in late June 1982 of a major non-bank financial
institution shook depositor confidence and was followed by a shift of funds
into the larger banks. The Government averted an immediate crisis in the
banking sector and undertook actions to reform and strengthen the financial
sector as a whole.  A new banking law was enacted in June 1983.  It covered
many of the recommendations made by the Bank's report on the financial
sector 1/, including measures to reduce the undercapitalization of banks,
place limits on the real assets and investments of banks, link the
establishment of branches to the level of a bank's equity, reduce the
interlocking between banks and corporations, introduce a deposit insurance
1/ 4459-TU dated September 21, 1983



-4-
scheme and increase the role of the Central Bank in the supervision of the
banking sector. The Government also took a major step towards reducing the
cost of intermediation and strengthening the inter-bank market by reducing the
level of the financial transactions tax from 15 percent to 3 percent in
December 1983. Separately, the Government has reduced the level of
withholding tax applicable to interest payments on deposits and bonds from
20 percent to 10 percent.
12.      While positive real interest rates have provided an incentive to
save, they have also meant high borrowing costs. The current real interest
rate for non-preferential credits is about 30 percent, and there is
considerable disparity between the cost of preferential and non-preferential
credits. The high interest rates, together with the limited availability of
credit, have led to considerable liquidity problems for the private business
sector, particularly for businesses supplying the domestic market. In order
to reduce real interest rates, measures are needed to lower the operating
costs of banks which are well above prevailing levels in comparable countries,
in addition to a reduction in the inflation rate.
13.      In the fiscal area the most notable feature is a marked retrenchment
of the public sector. The budget deficit to GNP ratio, which stood at
4.6 percent in 1980, decreased to 1.2 percent in 1982, while SEE transfers as
a percentage of GNP showed a steady decline from 4.8 percent in 1980 to
2.8 percent in 1982. The public sector accounts continued to show improvement
in 1983. Although there was a shortfall in tax revenues, this was more than
offset by savings in expenditure, so that the ratio of budgetary deficit to
GNP further declined to about 0.5 percent. Transfers to State Economic
Enterprises (SEEs) as a percentage of GNP also registered a decline to
2.6 percent in 1983. However, total profits of SEEs at TL52 billion were
somewhat lower than expected, implyi;ng a slight increase in the ratio of their
financing requirement to GNP.
14.      On the external account, the flexible exchange rate policy under
which the Turkish lira has been adjusted daily since May 1981, contributed to
an unprecedented export growth in 1981 to $4.7 billion, or 63 percent higher
in dollar terms than the 1980 level. The increases were concentrated in
manufactured goods (a rise of nearly 120 percent). Product groups with the
largest increases included textiles, clothing, cement, iron and steel, and
non-electrical equipment. Exports in 1982 reached $5.75 billion, about
22 percent above 1981, despite a significant decline in export prices,
particularly agricultural products. Manufactured exports were the major
source of expansion, as exporters continued to make inroads into the Middle
East. In 1983 exports grew by an estimated 13.6 percent in volume but their
value remained unchanged compared with 1982 at $5.8 billion, because of a
sharp downward movement in export prices.
15.      A new and rapidly growing source of foreign exchange is income earned
from construction contracts in the Middle East and North African countries
(with a gross value of around $12 billion in 1983). These activities are
expected to add to the normal flow of workers' remittances, which remained



-5-
strong throughout 1981 but declined in 1982 and 1983, reflecting the
appreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis European currencies as well as the
impact of the recession in Western Europe.
16.      The shortfall in earnings from exports and workers' remittances in
1983 was partially offset by a less-than-expected increase in the value of
imports, which reached $9.0 billion as compared to the programmed level of
$9.7 billion. The net result was a substantial increase in the current
account deficit to t1.8 billion in 1983 (3.5 percent of GNP) as against
$1.0 billion in 1982 (1.9 percent of GNP).
The New Economic Program
17.      The new Government announced its economic program in December 1983.
The major structural measures are in line with objectives contained in the
1980 reform program. They are designed to push the structural adjustment
process firmly forward, and to reaffirm the Government's will to pursue
policies designed to open up the economy and reduce the level of distortions.
Export growth and inflation control remain central to the new program. The
measures include:
(i)    a reorganization of the Government's administrative machinery,
including a reduction in the number of ministries and the
simplification of procedures;
(ii)    a substantial import liberalization which eliminates
approximately 78 percent of quantitative restrictions in
trade-weighted value terms, reduces significantly tariffs on a
large number of items and imposes a levy on luxury goods imports
aimed at feeding a low cost housing fund;
(iii)    a reaffirmation of the need to export;
(iv)    a substantial liberalization of the foreign exchange regime
through simplification of procedures and freeing of restrictions;
(v)    an interest rate policy designed to provide a real rate of
return thereby encouraging savings, while at the same time
freeing the lending rates set by the commercial banks with the
exception of the rates on certain preferential credits;
(vi)    a major step towards reduction in the inordinately large spread
between deposit and lending rates by lowering the withholding
tax from 20 percent to 10 percent and the financial transactions
tax from 15 percent to 3 percent; and
(vii)    a reaffirmation that the State Economic Enterprises will, with
some exceptions, be free to set their own prices according to
the requirements of the market.



-6-
Medium-term Prospects
18.       Preliminary projections prepared by the recent Bank Economic Mission
indicate the need for a continuation of the stabilization program until 1985,
followed by a growth strategy aiming at about 5.5 percent per annum GDP growth
consistent with a manageable balance of payments. 1/ Two basic assumptions on
the sustainability of export growth and on fiscal discipline have guided the
projections. The continued growth of exports is based on the view that
conditions that have made possible the 1981-82 upsurge are not temporary.
Specifically, the projections assume continuation of a flexible exchange rate
policy, export incentives and import liberalization. They also assume that
the monetary and fiscal policy restraints will not be relaxed to a point that
will revive inflation,  thus disrupting the basic shift in development strategy.
Table 1: Turkey - Projection of Selected Eccnomic Indicators
1981    1982    1983   1985   1990        Average Annual Real Growth Rate
Units   Actual   Actual  Estimate  Projected  1981    1982    1982-85    1985-90
GDP                   1980 TL b    4500    4723   4880   5334   6927   4.4      4.9      4.0       5.4
Consumption                     3755    3886     4050   4299   5487   1.9      5.0     4.3        5.0
Fixed Investment                878      908     946   1083   1441   4.2       3.0      5.4       5.9
Exports of Goods      Current $ m  4703    5746   5800   8552  18986   79.0    22.4      4.3       9.0
Imports of Goods                 8933    8843     9000   12166  24932   10.2    -1.5     6.5       7.1
Trade Balance                  -4230   -3097    -3200   -3614  -5946
Current Account Balance    Current $ m  -2076   -1010  -1808   -1763  -2104
Ratios
Investment/GDP         Z        24.1    22.1     22.4   22.3  22.8
Savings/GDP            x        18.9    18.6     19.0   19.5  20.6
Exports of Goods/GDP   x        8.9    10.4      9.5   10.4  12.4
Current Account Deficit/GDP   x  -3.5    -1.9    -3.5   -2.6  -1.7
Debt Service Ratio a/   %       13.8    23.7     24.3   24.6  24.1
Public Fixed Investment/  X     60.9    60.6     60.3   57.5  50.0
Total Fixed Investment
a/ Total Debt Service including Debt Relief - Exports of Goods and NFS plus Workers' Remittances.
Source: State Planning Organization for actuals and IBRD Projections.
19.       The projections of key economic variables for the period 1984-1990
are presented in Table 1. Merchandise exports are projected to continue to
grow at 9.0 percent in real terms into the late 1980s with manufactured
exports projected to grow at 11 percent per annum. The scenario assumes an
1/ The Fifth Five Year Development Plan (1984-88) was postponed by one year
until the new Government took office. According to the present schedule,
the new Fifth Five Year Plan, which will cover the period 1985-89, will be
ready in draft form by mid-1984.



-.7-.
improvement in the pace of import liberalization in order to reduce the profit
bias against exports. Merchandise imports are projected to grow slowly in
real terms through 1984 and then to pick up from 5-6 percent to an average of
a little over 7 percent for the 1985-90 period in line with the growth of
demand.
20.      The current account balance, under these assumptions, would show a
deficit for 1984-85 in the $1.6-1.8 billion range. As higher rates of growth
are achieved, the trend would be reversed for the 1985-90 period, and Turkey's
current account deficit would increase again. The terminal year 1990 would
show a deficit of $2.1 billion (1.7 percent of GNP), as compared to a 1985
projected deficit of $1.76 million (2.6 percent of GNP).
21.      The projected capital account would remain manageable throughout the
projection period given the need to restrain the growth of debt and maintain a
reasonable debt service ratio. This would permit Turkey to meet the
amortization and interest payments arising from the $9.2 billion of debts
rescheduled between 1978-82 and maintain an exchange reserve equivalent to two
months' imports.
22.      The projections indicate a GDP growth of 4 percent per annum for
1982-85 (stabilization period), and a higher figure of 5.4 percent per annum
for 1985-90 (growth period). The achievement of these growth rates will be
necessarily dependent on the growth of the productive sectors, namely
agriculture and manufacturing. Private investment is expected to grow at an
average annual rate of 7.1 percent during 1982-85 and 11 percent during
1985-90. As a corollary, the growth of public investment is expected to slow
down from a high of 7.8 percent per annum in real terms during 1980-82 to a
more moderate 3.3 percent during 1982-85 and eventually to 3.1 percent per
annum for 1985-90. This is consistent with the framework of achieving the
medium-term goal of an approximately equal balance in the ratio of private and
public fixed investment by 1990.
23.      Turkey's medium-term prospects are highly dependent on export
sustainability which depends partly on exogenous factors such as world
economic outlook and movements in world prices. In case the annual average
export growth during 1985-90 reaches only 7 percent 1/ with manufactured
exports growing at 9 percent, it will lead to a more difficult but manageable
balance of payments situation, more external borrowing, a lower level of
imports (between 5-6 percent per annum), a lower growth path (GDP growth of
4.5 percent per annum) and a higher debt service ratio (26-27 percent per
annum). In a sense this scenario, rather than projecting a stabilization
period followed by a return to normal growth path, suggests that stabilization
growth rates will continue throughout the period. Under these conditions
there is very little chance of absorbing the unemployed. However, given the
Government's emphasis on export promotion, there is presently good reason to
support the scenario described in paras. 19-22.
1/ Somewhere between historical growth rate (1960-1979) achieved prior to the
adoption of outward-oriented strategy and growth rate projected in
para. 19.



-8-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      At the end of 1978, Turkey's debt reached $7.5 billion in short-term
debt and $6.8 billion of medium- and long-term debt. Service payment
obligations (mostly on short-term debt) were $5.1 billion (including arrears),
or nearly three times the value of merchandise exports in 1977. Between
1978-1980 Turkey rescheduled some $9.2 billion of outstanding obligations
through a series of rescheduling arrangements concluded with official and
commercial creditors.  Approximately $6.0 billion of short-term debt,
including $2.6 billion in convertible Turkish lira deposits and bankers
credits and $1.2 billion of non-guaranteed suppliers credits, were
consolidated into medium-term loans or partially converted into Turkish lira
obligations.
25.      Following the resolution of the debt crisis, inflows were mostly from
official sources -- major creditors being the OECD countries, the World Bank
and the IMF. Of the total debt outstanding of $18 billion at end-1982,
87 percent constituted medium- and long-term debt. Based on the growth
scenario outlined earlier, debt outstanding and disbursed as a percent of GDP
is projected to fall from 34 percent in 1982 to 31 percent in 1985 and
26 percent in 1990. Short-term debt as a percentage of total debt outstanding
fell from 51 percent in 1978 to 13.0 percent in 1982.
26.      Debt service obligations are likely to be high over the coming
years. The debt service ratio increased to 23.7 percent in 1982 and
24.3 percent in 1983 from about 14 percent in 1981 as a result of a large
repayment of previously rescheduled debt under the earlier OECD agreements.
Projections beyond 1983 show a debt service ratio of 24.6 percent in 1985 and
24.1 percent in 1990. The debt burden should remain manageable provided
current policies are successfully implemented, the export drive is sustained,
and Turkey continues to receive further support from international commercial
and official sources. There are some recent encouraging signs of Turkey's
ability to enter the commercial market for medium-term loans. In July 1983
the Central Bank of Turkey received a $200 million five-year syndicated loan
for balance of payments needs. Negotiations are under way to raise an
additional $350 million medium-term loan this year from commercial banks with
increased participation from European banks.
27.      Turkey continues to be in good standing with the IMF.  A three-year
standby arrangement in an amount equivalent to SDR 1,250 million was approved
by the IMF's Board and became effective on June 18, 1980. The Government
purchased the full amount authorized under the arrangement. The Government
has also purchased SDR 56.25 million against the one-year Standby arrangement
for SDR 225 million approved by the Fund in June 1983. Negotiations are
nearly completed on replacing the current arrangement by a new one-year
standby arrangement to commence in April 1984.



-9-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
28.      Through September 30, 1983 the Bank and IDA have lent
$4,595.8 million /1 to Turkey, thrcugh 75 projects. Agriculture accounts for
18 percent of funds lent, industry and DFCs for 29 percent, power for
16 percent, structural adjustment Etnd program loans for 29 percent, and urban
development, transportation, education and tourism for the remaining
8 percent. As of September 30, 1983, IFC commitments to Turkey totalled about
$240 million, of which about $81 million were still held by IFC.  Annex II
provides a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of September 30, 1983.
29.      The execution of Bank-financed projects in the public sector has been
slow, due in part to weak management, limited coordination amongst ministries,
staffing problems, and the serious external and domestic financial crises from
1977 to 1979. There has been notable improvement since September 1980.
Nevertheless, problems persist in m.any cases, reflecting difficulties in
staffing the public sector at currient salaries, over-centralized bureaucratic
structures and continuing constraints on the availability of local funds. The
high interest rates for working capital combined with depressed domestic
demand and reluctance of investors to take the foreign exchange risk have
affected the implementation of private sector projects and led to slow
commitments under DFC lending. Disbursements for all sectors combined average
44 percent of appraisal estimates (excluding structural adjustment loans) as
compared to 54 percent for Tunisia and 42 percent for Morocco.
30.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting Turkey's medium-term objectives
of restructuring the Turkish economy by placing more reliance on market forces
and adopting a more outward-oriented strategy. These objectives also include
increasing domestic savings and reorienting a restrained public investment
program to reflect the Government's priorities of completing ongoing projects
faster and emphasizing quick-yielding new investments with positive balance of
payments impact. The main vehicle for the Bank's operational discussions with
the Government has been the structural adjustment lending (SAL) program. Four
SALs have so far been approved, the last on June 23, 1983. The success of the
SAL program has highlighted the need to develop sector policy lending vehicles
for continuing the policy dialogue at the sectoral level.
31.      Agriculture, industry, energy and transportation will continue to be
the key sectors for Bank lending with the accent being placed on improving the
management of projects. In agricualture, the emphasis will be on irrigation,
credit, and reform of the extension and research services. In industry
(including DFCs), it will be on the promotion of exports, employment, and
increasing operational efficiency. Energy projects under preparation will
focus on power generation based on domestic hydro and lignite resources, as
well as enhanced oil recovery and oil and gas exploration. Lending for the
transport sector will focus on developing the infrastructure necessary
/1 Net of cancellations.



-10-
to facilitate exports and improve the efficiency of operations. Projects for
industrial training, urban development and public utilities may supplement
these efforts.
32.      The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue established with the
Government in recent years is expected to be pursued. The economic and sector
work undertaken recently includes studies of the agricultural and financial
sectors. Topics likely to be covered in the future include a review of the
next five-year development plan, including a review of major public sector
projects, a study focussing on the impact of structural adjustment, a review
of transport investments and studies of the agroindustries and engineering
industries.
33.      Loans for technical assistance for state economic enterprises,
industrial training and this loan are the first three lending operations for
Turkey to be presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Other
projects being processed include highway rehabilitation and a proposed fifth
SAL.
34.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt was about
13 percent in 1982, and is expected to grow to about 15.4 percent by 1985; its
share of total debt service payments is projected to increase from about
9 percent in 1982 to about 14 percent in 1985.
35.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, textiles, pulp and paper, glass,
aluminum, cement, iron and steel products, heavy diesel engines, motor bicycle
engines, piston rings and tourism. [t has also invested in the Industrial
Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB) and provided guarantees for overseas
contracting firms. In addition, IFC is currently providing technical
assistance to the Government with respect to the development of the capital
market and a regulatory framework for leasing.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
36.      While the importance of the agricultural sector in the economy is
declining, it still represents about: 20 percent of GDP, about half of export
earnings and about 60 percent of civilian employment. The growth rates of
agricultural GDP and exports are projected to remain below that for the rest
of the economy. Nevertheless, agricultural growth has a significant role to
play in providing foreign exchange earnings and employment.
37.      Turkish agriculture is diverse.  Intensive crop cultivation is
prevalent in the coastal regions which receive plentiful rainfall or are
equipped with irrigation facilities. Mixed (crop and livestock) farming
predominates in the eastern and central parts of the country where pastures
and meadows form more than half of the agricultural land and crop production
is dependant upon rainfall.  In these areas much of the land is kept fallow in
alternating years.  While the livestock production system is largely
traditional, dependent on grazing lands and low productivity systems of animal
husbandry, it produces about one-third of agricultural GDP.  Cereal crops
occupy about two-thirds of the cultivated area, fruits and vegetables about
20 percent, industrial crops about six percent, and oil seeds, pulses, and
tubers the remaining seven percent.
38.      Through the 1970s, Turkey's agricultural policies were
inward-looking, stressing food self-sufficiency through subsidized inputs and
producer prices. This led to relatively rapid growth of production through
the first half of the 1970s, but could not be maintained due to the strain
placed upon the budget and competing demand for resources from the
manufacturing sector. An over-valued exchange rate discouraged exporting.
Exports in 1979 amounted to less than one percent of production. The foreign
exchange crisis in the late seventies led to the adoption of new policies in
1980 featuring maintenance of a realistic exchange rate and reduction of
agricultural subsidies.  These policies, combined with improved export
incentives, led to an increase in agricultural export earnings in 1980 and
1981 at an annual average rate of 29 percent. While agricultural exports
continued to grow in quantity in 1982, declining international prices led to a
4 percent reduction in the value of such exports. The value of agricultural
exports declined by a further 15 percent during the first nine months of 1983,
due primarily to declines in export prices. The rate of growth of total
agricultural production fell initially with the reduction of subsidies, under
the 1980 reforms. However agricultural production rebounded in 1982 due to
good weather and  adjustment by farmers to a more market-oriented farming
environment. In 1983, value added in agriculture fell by 0.8 percent due
largely to the effects of adverse weather conditions.
39.      The possibilities for growth through expansion of the cultivatable
area or of livestock numbers under a system of extensive grazing were largely
exhausted by the mid-1970s. Growth must now come primarily from increased
productivity and changing the crop mixture to reflect better Turkey's
comparative advantage. Increased productivity will require expansion in the
irrigated area through improved efficiency of the implementing agencies
(better planning, increased use of contractors), better extension and research
programs, expanded imports of improved seeds and appropriate equipment, and
increased availability of credit (particularly for small and medium-scale
farmers). The demands of an export-oriented approach imply a change of



-12-
emphasis from food self-sufficiency to increased net agricultural contribution
to the balance of trade, and thus imports of certain foods in which Turkey
does not have comparative advantage must increase if food consumers are not to
be penalized. Increasing agricultural exports requires appropriate pricing
signals, maintenance of a competitive exchange rate, reduction of export
regulations, and improved marketing. Other important issues in the sector
include improved sector planning, continued progress in reduction of
subsiIies, and reform of agricultural SEEs and marketing agencies.  With
adequate progress on these issues and continued adherence to policies designed
to encourage exports, it should be possible for agricultural sector GDP to
grow at about 3 percent per year over the next decade. 1/
Agricultural Extension
40.      The priority that should be given to raising yields per hectare and
lives.ock productivity through improved agricultural methods, requires
increased attention to improving the flow of information on improved
Lechnclogies to Turkey's farmers.  The results of Bank-supported projects,
parti li-arly the Corum-Cankiri Rural DevelopmeniL Project (Loan 1130-TU), have
demo ns--rated the potential of improved extension methods to bring about
zncreased yields through intensified cultivation practices and improved crop
rotation patterns.  Based upon these successes, the Government has decided to
adopt the training and visit (T&V) extension system first demonstrated in Bank
proiects as its nationwide extension system. This proposed project represents
a first step toward this goal.
41.      Turkey presently has an extensive network of extension services.  The
General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs (GDAA) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) has by far the largest number
of IField staff, with close to 1,000 agricultural engineers, about 5,400
agricultural technicians and about 850 home economists. Its field
organization, known as Teknik Ziraat (TZ) has established offices in all 67
provinces and 631 counties of Turkey. However, partially as a result of
shortcomings in the provision of extension services by GDAA, other
organizations have established their own extension services. These include
specialized extension services for sugarbeets, tea and tobacco established
respectively by the Sugar Factories Corporation (SEKER) and the Tea and
Tobacco Monopoly (TEKEL), specialists in irrigated agriculture employed by
TOPRAKSU (an irrigation agency formerly in the Ministry of Village Affairs and
recently transferred to MAFRA), and plant protection experts, animal breeding
and disease specialists, and a forest village extension service operated by
other LDirectorates of MAFRA. These parallel extension systems result in
duolicz c ion of effort and force the farmer to deal with a variety of single
subject advisors. However, consolicdation of these services prior to
improvement of the services of the general extension system would result in
reduction in the quality of specialized extension advice received by farmers.
The Go7ernment has agreed to establish (as a condition of loan effectiveness)
a ministerial working group to develop plans for reorganizing the diverse
extension services (draft Loan Agreement Sections 4.09 and 7.01(e)) and has
reviewed with the Bank the intended work program for this task. The
1/       More detailed information on the agricultural sector is given in
Report 4204-TU entitled "Turkey - Agricultural Development
Alternatives for Growth with Exports dated June 30, 1983.



-13-
plans developed will be discussed with the Bank by June 30, 1986.  Meanwhile,
the proposed project will focus on the TZ extension service, in view of its
overriding size and the steps alreaidy taken for its improvement.
42.      Up to now, the effectiveness of GDAA's extension services has been
constrained by a number of factors,, Centralized control of budgets and work
programming has discouraged interagency coordination in the field, and has
resulted in excessive bureaucracy and paperwork.  Administrative matters
occupy a disproportionately large share of the time of the extension agents,
who have been also responsible for preparation of agricultural statistics,
issuance of requisition forms for fertilizer, distribution of planting
materials, certification of farmers' creditworthiness, and other
administrative and regulatory duties. On the other hand, work programs for
actual extension work have not been sufficiently specific. In many cases TZ's
technicians have carried out their work under only very vague instructions and
their activities have not been adequately monitored. Their activities have
concentrated on a few commodity-specific actions programmed for each county
(e.g. propagation of early variety of potato, demonstration of particular
techniques), and covering only one or two aspects of farmers' operations. The
more general aspects of extension, including advice on farm management and
answers to particular problems faced by farmers outside these commodity-
specific projects, have not benefited from an organized structure of technical
support. The problem has been cwa,pounded by the inadequacy of the technical
and specialist expertise available to support the extension work of the county
staff. As a result, the extension. agents have neither been equipped to answer
the farmers' needs, nor has there been effecEive feedback from the farmers to
the extension services. The links between extension and research services
have been equally weak with linkages limited to occasional temporary
cooperation on specific projects or ad hoc participation of researchers in
training sessions for extension staff. Finally, the location of most
technicians in county offices and limited availability of transportation has
resulted in an over-concentration of activities in the more accessible
villages and the neglect of the remainder.
Agricultural Research
43.      Responsibility for agricultural research in Turkey is diffused among
a multiplicity of agencies. The research department of GDAA carries out
research for all annual and perenial crops (except sugarbeet), and for
pastures and animal husbandry in a total of 33 active research institutions
and centers. The Plant Protection Directorate of MAFRA operates 9 research
institutes with responsibility for research on diseases, pests, and weed
control for all crops except sugarbeet. TOPRAKSU operates 10 research
stations with responsibility for research on soils fertility and management
and irrigation. Additional research is carried out by the General Directorate
of Veterinary Affairs, SEKER, TEKEL, and the agricultural faculties of four
universities. The difficulties in research planning and coordination which
arise from the fragmentation among agencies are compounded by a lack of
clearly formulated priorities at the national level and limited capacity in
the State Planning Office or MAFRA for sectoral planning. This has led to
duplication of research effort and dilution of scarce research manpower and
financial resources through attempts to carry out too many projects. The
Government has attempted to correct this situation through the creation of
multi-agency research teams focussed on specific research projects.  This



-14-
approach has been successful in some cases and represents a clear step
forward, but problems of coordination and duplication still persist. The
Government has agreed to establish (as a condition of loan effectiveness) a
ministerial working group to develop medium-term plans for reorganizing and
consolidating agricultural research activities and for setting research
priorities (draft Loan Agreement Sections 4.09 and 7.01(e)), and has reviewed
with the Bank the intended work program for this task. The plans developed
will be discussed with the Bank by JLLne 30, 1986.
44.      Besides the institutional problems described above, agricultural
research in Turkey is also seriously impeded by a shortage of trained
professionals.  Only 15 percent of GDAA's research staff have a PhD or
Master's degree, with the remaining 85 perce-nt having only the equivalent of a
bachelor's degree with no training in research methodology. This situation
seems to have been deteriorating over recent years, largely as a result of
insufficient salary levels. The problem is compounded by a lack of
information and publications about research methods and results outside of
Turkey. Research practices are often outdated and results obtained elsewhere
are not effectively utilized for local adaptation. Research is mainly carried
out along commodity-specific lines, with inadequate attention paid to research
on cropping patterns and rotations, economics of farm management, or
appropriate farm machinery and equipment. Due to inadequate collaboration
with the extension services, research findings are not adequately tested under
farmers' conditions and little feedback takes place from the farmers to the
research institutes,
Recent Developments
45.      The Government has become increasingly aware of the present
shortcomings in the provision of agricultural extension and research services
and a number of preliminary steps have recently been initiated to correct
them. The former MAFRA General Directorates of Agricultural Research and
Cotton Affairs were merged into the GDAA, the central organization of MAFRA
has been streamlined under the general intra-ministerial reorganization of
February 1982, and in each province a Provincial Director of Agriculture has
been designated who is in charge of coordinating the activities of MAFRA's
extension, plant protection, veterinary and forestry services. The
incorporation in December 1983 of the former Ministry of Village Affairs into
MAFRA is a major step toward improved coordination. A National Seeds Program
has been instituted to augment the supply of certified seeds. A systematic
pre-service training program has been established for staff newly recruited by
GDAA. GDAA has also carried out a detailed review of TZ's staff resources and
drawn up an extension staffing plan for each province based on the intended
nationwide introduction of the training and visit (T&V) system, which had been
up to now limited to a number of special units established under Bank-assisted
projects. GDAA initiated in 1982 the first steps toward reorganization of
TZ's existing extension services along these lines as a pilot program in six
provinces. In parallel with this, starting in 1981, GDAA has set up two crash
programs (second crop and fallow reduction programs) which aim at promoting
the adoption of key technological innovations by integrating extension,
applied research and the provision of credit.  In the areas covered by these
programs, additional extension staff and vehicles have been provided, the TZ
extension service has been revitalized by setting clear priorities and
targets, and attempts have been made to foster closer linkages between
extension and research through the establishment of joint field trials.



-15-
Bank's Experience with Extension and Research in Turkey
46.      Eight Bank-assisted projects in Turkey, already completed or under
implementation, have included an extension component as a support to specific
investments in infrastructure or farm development. In most cases a special
project extension unit was established independently from the existing
countrywide extension services. In 1969 the Seyhan Irrigation Project
Stage II (Loan 587/Credit 143-TU) pioneered the training and visit system
which has subsequently been extended to many Bank-supported projects in other
countries. The special extension units created under the Bank-assisted
projects have demonstrated the benefits which can be derived from a systematic
approach to extension involving, in particular, the use of village level
workers backed by more qualified staff, regular training of all staff and
concentration on extension activities rather than data collection and other
administrative tasks. While these units had a substantial immediate impact on
agricultural production in their area of operation, their impact on the
national extension system was negligible. This has changed during recent
years, and the extension component of the Erzurum Rural Development Project
(Loan 2094-TU) provides for the first time for the strengthening and
reorganization of the Government's existing extension service rather than the
creation of a separate project unit. In 1982, the Government made a decision
to merge all existing project-specific extension units into the TZ extension
service and to strengthen and reorganize the latter nationwide along the lines
which have been successfully applied in Bank-assisted projects.
47.      The 1979 Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No.2747) on the
Seyhan II Project (Loan 587-TU) attributed the initial failure of the
extension component to have institutional building impact to the establishment
of the project extension system as a separate unit independent from the
national system. However, such separate units may have been the only
practical solution to meet a pressing need for extension services at a time
when Government was not committed to improving its own extension service.
These pilot operations were eventually successful in demonstrating to the
Government the opportunity for significant improvements in the national
extension system. The PPAR (No.4265) for the Fruit and Vegetable Export
Project (Loan 762-TU) reported that the extension components were weakened by
inadequate research programs and weak links between extension and research.
The PPAR (No.3515) for the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion Project
(Credit 281-TU) noted that the arrangements for the extension component had
not been specified in sufficient detail, based on an understanding that the
success of Seyhan II would ensure the adoption of that project's extension
methods in other areas. The lessons learned from these projects have been
incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
48.      In 1980, the Government proposed to a Bank agricultural projects
identification mission that the Bank finance a nationwide extension project.
The mission found this proposal too ambitious and recommended instead the
adoption of a phased approach with a first project covering a limited number



-16-
Of provinces. In May 1982, broad agreement was reached on the scope of a more
limited extension project which would be prepared by GDAA. Several Bank
missions provided assistance in preparation.  Preparation was completed in May
1983 and the project was appraised in June 1983. A staff appraisal report
'No, 4818-TU dated March 13, 1984) is being distributed separately to the
Execu ive Directors.  The key features of the proposed project are listed in
the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. Negotiations took place in
Washington in February 1984, with a delegation headed by Mr. Tunc Bilget,
Chief Financial and Economic Counsielor of the Turkish Embassy in Washington,
and including representatives of Treasury, MAFRA, and the State Planning
offica. A representative of the International Fund for Agricultural
tevel oment (IFAD) participated in the negotiations.
Po 4ert Objectives and Loan Features
4i9      The proposed project is intended to be the first step in a program to
impro-e methods of agricultural extension and applied research ultimately on a
aio-wide basis.  The project is intended to increase productivity and
agrc-XturL  l incomes in a 16-province project area, through improvement in the
flo  of in-formation between farmers and GDAA's extension and research
services. It is also intended to contribute to institution building in GDAA
and to permit testing and refinement of methods of technology transfer prior
to their extension to the whole country. Improvements in technology
generation and transfer have been identified by the Bank as key priorities for
further growth of the agricultural sector.I' The Government has indicated
its ccmnitment to strengthening its extension and research capability and has
already taken a number of steps toward this end. As noted in the previous
paragraphs, this will require a number of institutional and organizational
changes wihich should be expected to extend beyond the six-year implementation
period of this project.
50.      The project would provide isupport to the ongoing reorganization and
strengthening of GDAA's extension services in 16 provinces, together with
support to six major research institutes of GDAA serving the project area.
The socioeconomic circumstances and systems of agriculture vary considerably
between the various zones of the project area, ranging from relatively more
develoced and coSmercialized provinces along the Aegean (see attached map) to
the comparatively less developed provinces in the Southeastern part of the
country.  This would provide an opportunity for evaluating the effectiveness
of various means of technology transfer in a variety of circumstances.  The
project area includes about 1.2 million farm families, living in some
10,370 villages and farming about 10.7 million ha. This includes about
lol mil-lion ha under vineyards, orchards, and tree crops, about 0.3 million ha
or vegeeable gardens, and about 6.8 million hectares of field crops (including
5.8 m-iLion ha of cereals).  The project area also supports about 3.4 million
_Stle and about 23.4 million sheep and goats.
1/       See Report No.4204-TU "Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives
for Growth with Exports" dated June 30, 1983.



-17-
51.      The project would support two complementary approaches to
agricultural extension and informat:ion transfer. The first approach would be
based essentially on personal contact between extension agents and farmers and
field demonstrations, along the lines which have been successfully applied
under extension components of previous Bank-assisted projects and which are
now endorsed by Government for nationwide application. The TZ extension
service would be strengthened and reorganized so as to overcome the major
shortcomings described in the preceding section. Agricultural- technicians
would be posted in selected villages rather than the county towns in order to
permit close contact with the farmers. These village group technicians (VGTs)
would undertake an intensive program of regularly scheduLled farm visits, and
would cover the whole range of farning activities in their area rather than
the commodity-specific approach which prevails at Dresent. The VGTs would be
closely supervised and regularly trained by teams of subject matter
specialists (SMSs) at the county and province levels. Strong operational
links would be established between the extension staff and the six major
research institutes serving the project area so as to supply the VGTs with
appropriate technology for improving crop and livestock production.  h4iile TZ
would retain its current administrative, regulatory and record-keeping duties,
these responsiblities would be entrusted to separate staff freeing VGTs and
SMSs for full time extension work.
52.      Each VGT would be assigned responsibility for agricultural extension
in a specified area normally consisting of several villages. For indicative
planning purposes, VGTs would be allocated at the ratio of 1:250 farmers,
where irrigated farming practices predominate, while in areas of more
extensive agricultural production, the ratio would vary around 1:550-650
farmers, although it could be as high as 1:1,000 farmers in counties where
modern farming systems are widely adopted. A number of farmers within a VGT's
area of operation would be identiflied as "contact farmers" and would be
regularly visited by the VGT on a fixed schedule known by other farmers who
would be encouraged to join and participate. On each visit, the VGT would
look at the contact farmer's fields, discuss and demonstrate improved
techniques, check progress made in adopting previous recommendations and
observe any technical problems the farmers may be having. The Government has
agreed (draft Loan Agreement Section 4.04) to issue by September 30, 1984
revised job descriptions for extension staff in the project area in accordance
with agreed extension operational methods and organizational structure (as
described above).
53.      This essentially labor-intensive extension method would be closely
integrated with a second approach to information transfer based on the use of
mass communication and audiovisual aids. Little systematic use of these for
agricultural extension has been made up to now in Turkey. Under the proposed
project, an Extension Information. Center (EIC) would be established in Ankara
within GDAA and some of its staff stationed at the research institutes, so as
to ensure adequate dissemination of existing information, the preparation of
well designed and relevant audiovisual materials for use by TZ staff and
coordination with the Turkish Radio and Television service (TRT) for the
programming and preparation of radio and television broadcasts. EIC would
prepare audiovisual aids for use by the VGTs in farmers' training and would
coordinate use of mass media, particularly radio, TV and newspapers, for
providing information to farmers,



--158-
54.       he support provided to the six major research institutes serving the
project area would aim at strengthening their applied and adaptive research on
commoclities and farming systems of importance in the project area so as to
foster the development of improved technology packages for furthLer transfer to
TZ and the farmers. Under the project, the linkages between these research
institutes and TZ would be reinforced. An expanded program of field trials
would be undertaken by the researchers in close collaboration with the TZ
staff. The research institutes would provide tr-aining workshops to the SMS's
about 8 times per year, providing for transfer of technology to extension
staff and for a flow of information from the extension staff about farmers'
practices and problems. Half of these workshops would be at the research
instituLtes and half would be associated with visits to farmers and on-farm
trials. One information coordinator from EIC would be stationed at each
research institute and would coordinate dissemination of research findings to
TZ staff and through the media directly to farmers. The revised job
descriptions referred to in para. 52 would also incorporate the above
procedures for improved extension/research linkages.
55.      A monitoring and evaluatioa (M&E) capability would be established
under t-he project. Staff of TZ would be trained and assigned responsibility
for data collection and record keeping and preparing reports designed to
assist Project management in ensuring timely physical implementation. A small
M&E group recently established in GDAA's Department of Technical Cooperation
would assist in training staff and developing systems for these purposes and
would also undertake special studies designed to assist in adjusting the
design of this and future similar projects in light of the experience gained
during the early years of implementation. Particular attention would be paid
to assessing the relative effectiveness of the various ratios of extension
workers to farmers and different types of rass media in various parts of the
country, for farmers in different socioeconomic circumstances and for
different types of technical information to be dsisseminated.  During the third
year of the Project a mid-term review would be undertaken jointly by
Government, IFAD and the Bank, to determine whether any adjustments should be
made in light of experience (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(b)(vi)).
56.      The project would be further supported by a substantial program for
local and overseas training of research and exter.sion staff, as well as by
provision for about 100 man-months of consultant services to supplement local
expertise during early implementation.  Each SMS and VGT would attend a
one-week training session during his first year of service in the project area
and thereafter would attend a variety of in-service training courses
throughout the project period to complement a program of fortnightly VGT
training sessions and monthly SMS workshops~ About 4,700 man-months of
overseas training would also be provided for project staff, including about
3,450 man-months of training designed to reduce the shortage of qualified
research staff. A consulting firm or international agency acceptable to the
Bank would be employed by September 30, 1984 to administer the overseas
training program (draft Loan Agreement. Section 4.03(a)).  The terms of
reference of the extension and resear-ch working groups (paras 41 and 43)
include a detailed skills assessment of M_AFRA technical staff, projections of
future requirements to meet expected nation-wide programs, and preparation and
discussion with the Bank by June 30, 1986 of an Action Plan for meeting these
requirements. Ten man-months of consulting services are provided under the
project to assist these working groups and to helpl in preparation of programs
for expansion of the project concepts to other areas.



*-19-
Project Components
57.      To permit the above developments, provisions are made in the project
for:
(a)   recruitment of about 400 agricultural engineers, 900
agricultural technicians and some 580 drivers for the project
area extension service, together with professionals and support
staff for the EIC, about 100 researchers with attendant support
staff for the research program, and about eight professionals
and 36 enumerators for the M & E program. The Government has
agreed to recruit and assign such staff in accordance with an
agreed schedule (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(b)(ii)).
The Loan would assist in financing incremental salaries and
travel allowances for such staff to permit, inter alia,
expanded programs of extension field visits, field trials,
researcher participation in SMS training, and M&E studies;
(b)   construction of some 1,600 village housing units to allow
existing and incremental VGTs to be deployed in the villages,
some 1,200 houses for county extension staff and about 100
additional offices for TZ in the provinces and counties, and a
building for the EIC. Land for these facilities would be
acquired in a timely manner (draft Loan Agreement, Section
4.07);
(c)   construction of additional facilities at six research
institutes, including dormitories, conference rooms and
cafeterias to permit conduct of SMS workshops, and additional
research facilities and staff housing;
(d)   provision of some 1,650 motorcycles, and about 760 pickups,
station wagons and minibuses to give adequate mobility to the
extension field staff and EIC, about 70 vehicles and additional
farm equipment and machinery for carrying out applied research,
and about 4 vehicles for project management and M&E. Under the
project, measures would be taken to ensure free movement by TZ
staff in performance of their official duties including
arrangements to make available to staff, as needed, adequately
powered and properly insured motorcycles and authorizations
required for their use. The Loan would assist in financing
incremental operating costs for these vehicles and equipment;
(e)   provision of equipment for the EIC, complementary audio visual
equipment for the TZ field offices, scientific periodicals and
books and laboratory and audio visual equipment for the six
research institutes, and office equipment, calculators and
minicomputers for the M&E unit; and
(f)   an intensive program of inservice training for all staff
involved in the project, about 4,700 man-months of overseas
training, about 48 man-months of English language instructors
services, and about 110 man-months of consultant services.



-20-
Cost 'L.stimates and Financing
58.      The estimated total cost of the proposed project is $205.7 million
equivalent (including $8 million in taxes), of which $82.0 million
(40 percent) is direct and indirect foreign exchange.  These costs include
incremental staff salaries and operation and maintenance costs during a
sax-year project implementation period through March 1990. The above
estimates include 10 percent physical contingencies on the building
construction components and about 19 percent price escalation for all
compoonents. 1/ (While local costs are expected to increase at a faster rate,
the floating Turkish lira automatically accommoclates the difference between
loca' and foreign inflation.) Consultants costs are estimated to average
about @12 150 per man-month (including salary, costs, fees, international
travel_ and subsistence).  Overseas training costs are estimated to average
$2,400 per man-month. The proposed Bank loan of $72.2 million together with a
proposed loan from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
of  C10 million would finance an amount equal to the estimated foreign exchange
cost cf the project plus the front-end fee. The IFAD loan would be
adminristered by the Bank. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan that all conditions for the effectiveness of the IFAD loan have been
fulfilled (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7001(a)).  The remaining 60 percent
of costs would be provided by the Government. The Government would by
September 15 of each year, provide tLo the Bank for comment an annual updated
work program and financing plan including the proposed budget allocations for
the various components of the project. The Government would also inform the
Bank annually of the final budget allocations approved for the project (draft
Loan Agreement) Section 4.08(b)).
59,      The net recurrent costs which the Government will continue to bear
fol0owing the six-year project implementation period are estimated at $11.2
million equivalent in December 1983 prices, after deducting about $1.2 million
equivalent of income taxes on incremental staff salaries. The Government has
agreed to provide adequate budgetary funds after the end of the six-year
project implementation period to maintain in the project area the extension
and applied research systems introduced under the Project (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 5.03).
Credit and Agricultural Inputs
So.      Tne above cost elements exclude the additional agricultural credit
and agricultural inputs which the farmers in the project area are expected to
use in improving agricultural productivity following the advice of the
extension staff. The Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2318-TU of
June 27, 1983) includes funds for financing the estimated foreign exchange
component of such credit in 10 out of 16 provinces in the project over a
period of about four years. Agricultural inputs are distributed partly by the
private sector and partly by State Economic Enterprises. During the past
years, most inputs have been available to the farmers as needed, with the
exception of some specific types of seeds which have been in short supply. In
order to improve this situation, the Government has decided since 1982 to
allow the importation of such seeds in case of dormestic shortages and has
1/      7e5 percent price escalation assumed in 1984, 7 percent in 1985, and
6 percent annually thereafter.



amended seeds regulations to encourage the involvement of the private sector
and foreign firms in their production. The Government has agreed to take all
necessary action to ensure availability of adequate agricultural inputs and
credit in the project area (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
Procurement
61.      Vehicles, agricultural equipment and machinery and audiovisual and
office equipment, ($22.7 million) would be procured by ICB, with the exception
of small items to be purchased in limited quantities which will be procured by
local shopping with at least three price quotations for a maximum total amount
of $300,000. Laboratory equipment and seed stock for livestock investigations
($1.9 million) would be procured under limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of not less than three quotations from suppliers in
eligible countries.  One civil works contract with an estimated value
$3.7 million equivalent, including contingencies, would be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB). Other civil works contracts
($83.3 million) consisting of small, scattered works unliKely to be of
interest to international firms, wDuld be awarded under local bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Furniture for buildings to be constructed
under the project ($1.3 million) would be procured by local shopping with at
least three price quotations. Books and periodicals ($0.3 million) would be
purchased directly from overseas suppliers.
Disbursments and Audit
62.      For civil works and furniture IFAD would disburse against 20 percent
of expenditures for TZ in three provinces in Southeastern Anatolia, while the
Bank would finance 20 percent of all other expenditures. The Bank and IFAD
loans would disburse on an 88:12 ratio against (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and local expenditures ex-factory for vehicles; (ii) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for overseas training; and (iii) 50 percent of
incremental operating costs up to an aggregate disbursement of $17 million,
30 percent thereafter until aggregate disbursements reach $25 million, and
10 percent thereafter. The Bank ,.oan would also be disbursed against (i)
100 percent of foreign expenditures and local expenditures ex-factory and
80 percent of other local expenditures for equipment, books and periodicals;
and (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for foreign consultants and
90 percent of total expenditures for local consultants, Two revolving funds
totalling $5 million equivalent ($4.4 million Bank, $0.6 million IFAD) would
be established for withdrawals for civil works contracts and incremental
operating costs to avoid the need for the Government to prefinance and then
await Bank reimbursement (draft Loan Agreement, Schedules 6 and 7). Opening
the special accounts for these revolving funds would be a condition of
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement. Section 7.01(b)). Disbursements ftr
civil works contracts below $750,000, incremental operating costs, and goods
procured through local shopping would be based upon statements of expenditure.
63.      GDAA will maintain separate accounts for the project and would
prepare at the end of each semester a detailed statement of project
expenditures during the period and submit such statement to the Bank within
two months after the end of each semester. In addition, an annual audit would
be carried out by the Ministry of Finance inspectors, and submitted to the
Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.02).



-22-
ImpIementat ion
64.      The project would be administered by GDAA.  Responsibility for
execution and management of project operations in the field would be devolved
to the TZ staff at the provincial and county levels for extension and internal
M&E, and to the six research institutes of GDAA strengthened under the
project. At the central level, a Central Coordinating Committee would be
established, under the chairmanship of the Undersecretary of MAFRA, to ensure
that field staff from the other MAFRA Directorates involved in extension and
research would assist in training TZ staff and cooperate in joint projects
with GDAA's researchers. The Director General of GDAA would chair a Central
Executive Committee, which would meet periodically to review progress and
resolve problems. One of his deputy directors would be designated as Project
Coordinator. Assistance would be provided by the Ankara staff of GDAA's
Departments of Extension, Research, Training, Planning and Budget, and
Technical Cooperation and Coordination (for M&E). The Department of
Externally Financed Projects would handle procurement (as it has in prior Bank
projects within GDAA). A small project administration unit (PAU) would be
established within this department, for which an engineer-architect has
already been appointed.  To foster improved coordination between extension and
research services on a regional basis, a regiona-L coordinating committee would
be established in each of the four agro-ecological zones under the project.
The Government has agreed (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(b)) to the
establishment and maintenance of the Central Coordinating Committee, the
Central Executive Committee, the regional coordination committees and the PAU,
with functions and powers satisfactory to the Bark.  Establishment of PAU and
these coordinating committees and designation of a Project Coordinator would
be a condition of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(c)). The
civil works program would be carried out under the aegis of the Ministry of
Public Works and Resettlement (MPWR) which would appoint firms for
architectural work, tendering and site supervision for the larger construction
projects, and would handle these responsibilities with its own staff for the
smaller projects. The PAU engineer-architect would represent GDAA in dealing
with the architects and monitoring progress of the civil works program. He
would also prepare forecasts of financial requirements.  The Bank has reviewed
standard drawings for the housing and office buildings and preliminary
drawings; for the research buildings and EIC. Site acquisition and zoning
approval have been completed for most extension buildings included in the
first year construction program, and are underway for the remaindier.
65.      Under the Project, four agricultural universities would also provide
services for the training of TZ staff. The National Documentation Center, the
Film, Radio and Television Center of the Ministry of Education, and the
Turkish Radio and Television Service would provide services for staff training
and operations of ETC. Signing of appropriate interagency protocols,
acceptable to the Bank, governing the provision of these services would be a
condition of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(d)).
66.      Based on experience under previous projects, it is expected that the
construction of houses and offices for TZ would be completed by the fourth
year of project implementation, while the construction of larger facilities at
the research institutes and EIC would be completed by the fifth year.
Incremental staff recruitment would be carried out during the first three
years of project implementation, so that all VGTs zan be posted in villages by
the end of the fourth year of project implementation after pre-service



-23-
training. Wherever possible, temporary staff housing would be used to permit
deployment of staff in the villages without awaiting completion of the housing
construction program. The total project implementation period would thus
extend over six years so as to provide financial and technical support to the
operations of the reorganized extension service for 1-2 years after it reaches
its full strength. The above schedule includes allowances for the types of
delays which have occurred in prior projects. GDAA indicated its intention to
complete the village housing construci:ion program in 2-3 years, which could be
feasible provided land acquisition and contract adjudication sre expedited.
Benefits and Risks
67.      The benefits from this project would result from the extension
service persuading farmers to adopt improved techniques, which in most cases
would also require additional expenditures for agricultural inputs, increased
farm labor, and complementary infrastructure. Since it is difficult to
separate the benefits resulting from the extension service from those arising
from these additional on-farm costs, this type of project does not lend itself
to traditional economic analysis or estim.ates of an economic rate of return
(ERR). However, an indicative calculation was made which shows that even a 2
percent increase in average yields as a result of the project, built up
gradually during the project period, would be sufficient to generate an ERR of
20 percent.
68.      While precise allocation of benefits is difficult, improvements in
Turkey's technology generation and dissemination systems have been identified
as key requirements for restoring and sustaining growth in agricultural
production. Effectively, all of Turkey's arable land has already been put
into production. Therefore, further production growth must come from a more
intensive use of existing cultivated area through fallow suppression, expanded
multiple cropping and crop yield increases. The improved extension methods to
be introduced under this project have already proved their effectiveness on a
pilot scale in other Bank projects. For example, the strengthened extension
service introduced in the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (Loan
1130-TU) was instrumental in increasing wheat yields in four years from 1.5
tons/ha to 2.0 tons/ha, and barley yields from 1.4 tons/ha to 2.1 tons/ha
(prior to any significant increase in irrigation). The extension service was
also successful ini introducing new rotations alternating wheat with fodder
crops or legumes, reducing fallow land and adding about 100,000 acres to the
cropped area. Similar opportunities for improvements in rain-fed agriculture
exist in many other areas of Turkey. In addition, most of Turkey's irrigated
area is operated inefficiently with poor water utilization and less than
optimum yields. The project's extension methods have also demonstrated their
effectiveness in Bank-financed irrigation projects. Thus the presently
proposed project can be expected to bring about substantial yield increases in
the project area, to contribute to institution building within GDAA, and to
permit testing and refinement of extension methods to be ultimately extended
to the whole country.
69.      The most important project risk is that the extension improvements to
be introduced may not be fully adopted or permanently institutionalized.
While current management of MAFRA enthusiastically supports the new systems,
their introduction lnvolves changes in the way staff have operated over many
years and may take some time to be fully accepted. The successes achieved in
prior Bank projects may have benefitted from opportunities to select s.aff



-24-
most amenable to trying new methods. A second risk involves the failure to
develop further research findings on which to hase extension recommendations
after the currently available improvements have been adopted. The applied
research and training components of the project are designed to reduce this
risk. The interministerial study on the reorganization/consolidation of
research services and improved priority setting methods (para 43) should help
to bring about the reforms required to provide a continued flow of technical
innovations to improve agricultural productivity. A third set of risks
involves delays in project implementation due to problems in land acquisition,
tendering or contractor performance. Allowance has been included in the
implementation schedule for such delays. The risk of poor contractor
performance will be reduced by prequalification requirements. The final risk
involves inadequate local budgetary support.  The support of the Government
for the extension reforms and the arrangements made for the Bank to comment on
proposed budgetary allocations (para 58) and Bank and IFAD support on a
decreasing basis for incremental operating costs should reduce this risk to
some extent. However, the key factor in this re!gard will be the success of
the Government's overall economic management policies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
71.      Special conditions of Bank loan effectiveness are: (i) the
effectiveness of the IFAD loan; (ii) opening of special accounts for the
revolving funds; (iii) establishment of the PAU, the Central Coordinating
Committee, the Central Executive Comimittee, and the regional coordinating
committees and designation of the Project Coordinator; (iv) signing of
interagency protocols governing provision of services to the project by other
Government agencies; and (v) the establishment of the ministerial working
groups on extension and research (draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). Other
features of special interest are listed in Secticn III of Annex III.
72.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                          ty Ernest Stern
March 19, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-25-                                                   ANEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E  3A                                        PAGE L
TURKEY                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURXEY                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) .a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIHIATE) /b
/9601b  ~  lb  RECENT  lb         MIDDLE INCOME INDUSTRIAL
1960.1-b    1970.0-  ESTIMATE-             EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
ARA (THOUSAND SQ. Ki)
TOTAL                                780.6       780.6       780.6
AGRICULTURAL                         372.3       381.8       381.8
GNP PE  CAPITA (US$)                    300.0       550.0       1540.0             2453.6                    111L2.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTlION PE  CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      258.0        512.0       779.0              1580.8                     7500.6
POPULATION Mfm VITAL STUAISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  27509.0       35321.0     45529.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)         29.7        38.4        46.7                47.8                       78.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              68.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               119.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. tIM.                        35.2        45.2        56.9                82.0                      139.0
PER SQ. KM. AGPI. LAND              73.9        92.5       116.4               157.2                      514.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                          41.2         41.0        38.6                31.9                      22.4
15-64 YRS                          55.2         54.3        57.0                60.9                      66.0
65 AND ABOVE                         3.5         4.7         4.4                 7.2                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (l)
TOTAL                                2.8         2.5         2.3                 1.6                       0.8
URBAN                                6.1         5.1         4.1                 3.4                        1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         43.1        37.9        33.2                25.0                       13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          15.8        12.2         9.2                 9.1                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1         2.7         2.2                 1.7                        0.9
FAMILY PLASNIt4G
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..        65.6        66.6/c
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)           5.3/d       3.0        38.0o7.
FOD AND NUTRITIO
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        96.0        100.0       111.0               108.4                     112.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REOUIREMENTS)       115.0       111.0       122.0               129.6                      134.4
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)           d5.U         80.0        86.0                92.3                      99.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          25.0        23.0        25.0/f              34.6                      61.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           50.0        31.2        19.8                10.4                       0.4
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         50.5        56.6        62.4                67.2                      74.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TiHOUS)      189.5        147.5       119.2                71.4                      10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..         52.0        75.0..
URBAN                                 ..        51.0        70.0/.
RURAL                                ..         53.0        so.0                  ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..20.
A URAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2800.0       2230.0      1630.0              1094.4                     553.6
PUP. PER NURSING PERSON            16310.0/h    1880.0      1130.0               762.5                     182.9
POP. PER dOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              600.0       490.0       500.0/f             334.0                      119.8
URBAN                              340.0/h     310.0       3OO.0d7             216.0                     143.2
RURAL                             5100.0/h    5910.0      6240.0i7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        20.2        22.3/f              20.0                      17.7
iOUSILG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.7/i       5.9
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                2.4/i       2.2
URBAN                                2.D7I       1.9
RURAL                                2.77         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               29.0        41.1        57.0
URBAN                                 ..        78.2
RURAL                                2.0        18.0                                                         . 



ANEX I
-26-                                             Page 2 of 5
T A B L E  3A                                       PAGE 2
TURKEY                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1960.-b  19 7-b RECENT  /b       MEDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIAL
1960        1970/  bESTIMATE-             EL'ROPE            MARKBT ECONCHIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                   75.0       110.0       101.0              102.2                      101.5
MALE                    90.0       124.0       110.0               107.2                     103.3
FEMALE                  58.0        95.0        93.0               97.9                      103.3
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   14.0        27.0        37.0               56.5                       89.2
MALE                    20.0        38.0        49.0                63.4                      84.5
FEMALE                   8.0        15.0        24.0               48.9                       86.0
'JOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)         17.7        13.7        22.3               22.4                       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0        38.0        27.0               24.7                       20.2
SECONDARY                          19.0        28.0        23.0               22.1                       14.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)              38.0        51.3        60.0                69.7                      98.9
COImPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           1.7         3.9        11.5/g             52.9                      356.5
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         49.1        87.7        96.4              165.5                     1085.4
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.0         1.8        75.3              124.2                      449.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             51.3        40.6        89.1               96.3                      331.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       1.1         7.0         1.9/e              2.9                        3.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         13782.0    15829.0      19737.0
FEIMALE (PERCENT)                  40.2        37.0        36.4               34.5                       36.1
AGRICL'LTL'RE (PERCENT)            78.5        67.7        53.5               40.7                        6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.5        12.1        12.8               23.4                      37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              50.1        44.9        43.4               42.0                       45.5
MALE                               58.7        55.7        54.4               55.2                       59.0
FEMALE                             41.2        33.6        32.0               29.1                       32.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.9         1.0         1.0                0.9                        0.8
iEme DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE TNCDME
RECEIVED BY
HI'GHEST 5% OF HOUSEHO1.DS         33.0/d      32.8/k        ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS          61.07w      60.67k        ..                 ..                      43.1
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.27T       2.97k        ..                 ..                        5.5
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           1O.67T       9.47V         ..                                         16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       342.0/e
RURAL                                ..          ..       270.07e
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN
RURAL                                ..          ..       220.0/e            409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                ..          ..          ..
RURAL                                 .          ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populationrweighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of couneries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb Unless otherwise noted, Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estinate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1974; /d 1963; /e 1975; If 1977; Ig 1976; lh 1962; /i 1965; /  1975: Ik 1968.
May 1983



ANNEX 1
-27-                                                                          Page 3 o~f5
tut   hth-egh the data .rr Iroon  fis  c-e  gcrlyJodged th. -.c  soloteie  e   eIbe  I   to    l. ho -Itd thee thy cepra  be  oeoatna
coeprabl  hocoso  f t1he lok  foAodarie   Lc ttont  aud   ocptcedby differntcnnr.                    ci .-llectlo  the dat,  Thoe data Ar.  enibiaa    efsi to
The reernov  troue are Ii ho  no   owr  groupof-teobetcatry .ed (0) A .-ntty gruP with .oenhtt high., avrgotr.. than the  -notry  rsep of the
robjrt  ounty (xcet fo  0006 (cOo   Oi Oxprtee' goupmitr. "idde litee  Noth 9ric.an  bid-e  act'Ladean  he---.of eronch oAtlieierg
grOup hl, dot  fSiha.nd        .to,flo  th1,R        cag  of  nmotrie  amno the indicator. depen.  o  the  -oiiabiLity of data AMd i. rot o-it-. raio. era  he
P00k IttOunai tq.he.l                                                 Pnoolatinn perPhotltt     rpoci             divodod by tuce  of pret-tiNO
-Tutaf - 7-ta  Iuf...  rO  ocprelg  ad a... od  Li.lad aetor; 1960,                                 phytioLoOS. pualiroed, or. a mdLica  etai At -fL.-",lt  l.-I.
un7 .d 190 da.praiore   onc   PeA--e - Peplauton d"irie   hy eb., of K-eblthe
Ugtuiri-fthu-t  ufAaroutr l ae   -dt reeporily or permaenty                                suSod--i ldae  oat   eitt    use.pocoinrr   n
for orope. ponture.-,maket And kth-rbo  gard_t  o, to li  failur; 19b0,                    .u..i. L"    iiale
1900 atd  MDN dat..                                                                           Porooltinn rErlept   Sd-ta.urx.cdop -..                       PNPLCldte   (te"ta,
artn,en  rra)  iotedbythirrnPmotir  tote  nf Ioapittl bade
ClIP Pl 1031* 1107  - ISPper..Pit. eatae    t ..u.r.ti raketap riote,)                       Alabi  in ..pahii  act prOrate getaro  and  epotltcd          i,ell en
OOiruLued by  ane ooocni. ..ttta  .e World took itlae 11979- I baei.l                       r.hgbilitato   ce0v . lpiral. ere .stabhIMMt. penaeaaZlp e"tdfe
1960.  MD7, end 19"1 Onto.                                                                         by or Iea  n.e  oysca . -ttbili.an.-  Pr-rdtg Prinipatf  ecdo
.OIe Art ore Otocla,d,d total banIIale.,  m      e. letnd. heath aNd
E58507 CINSSCSFIO9 POt CAPITA - totuL ap n   --euprire nf ooet.al                          -         e    .Ice  te__r  ot Perm_ueIp etoffed by a ph"L.etr-fn (by  e eeigol
7ru3yexoy(06  an 1igui to, per n..nturl.  gas oud hydnn-. .-gI.ar                          ..i.ant  toAree  LdWI f*, *ta.) nbitb of .e  to-petioc  ar.Rmdaaie     eci
and Octhereal aIecL-tIty) 10 klloOr-n  of col  9iria   per opgta,                                  P..oid. a Ideitedragoo  adt     fonILifIA.  1or I                   t*ttel 
19Sf. 1970, and 980 det.                                                                          lnb.u hopitel. inotod  Wgaft      teieig  eg bheitaise en  ree
focpitala, loca  or rort  (toPtele.I  eW  Radll  M a-P,taty eeae
POPiLfATCOSI Add VrCAL STAT STCR71                                                                   OeoAkIseUd h-spitals are Liredd enip ondr t .t. 1
Intl  tralaii'~  cet      -eod.) -hof JIni  1; 1960. 1970, And 19Sf                      Adtieeiiee ran      II.1t Seg - Totai t.he.  of  dtrete. te o  diochegee
Urbac PepuINtIPA fo t nftotal) - Rati  of orbat to totalpe1              tte
differoat drfilltias  of-oh crt   a  offeoc  n.-pe-bility of data                           841515
-awoganetrt; 1960, 19I70, ted 1981 Uao -eRc  o  hoehl (een   e   n    ed-ttl aria, nod reJrul
Pu   i. in. L     r  006   Cottopll               rJrtiao. Are bu..ad In 1980                    edtiraIn  ..Ile   A boader or iLae    y nrme  eec he tede   la
totAL po iii_'    i      nod er ad   thi    .cruity And f-rthlty                              tWhe eonheid for  Mtt.tieiaL perPeec.
lerel  ese lif.10  rapatoty At birth ioceio   iutroenr                   - peLfpnr    e   o. to all arte..ted  peo   attfd cam                                  .-cIe
..Plre. hon. lore. end female life. aupeoteno  subiticieg At 77.5                             dclige   rpeetlrey.  ThaLitege co1ad   om..eet  treOcna-
ror.Te  aaor  for f-a fllay rare "Ie  har  Obre  lorein                                    -wlord Pea-
orn.uglslto  10 fortility noOrdlog. to i          n.  loo   and ;eat (e-Ily             tauct   itnot  rrato   eetee                       aa.eba   o   ua 
ploexig pefomae.  Ra-h exatry LA" h.sc amf                n  of the.- nOn                      C raiaieiigenbeiorticty       ivN    qer                       Vca  I&6et
_ebI-aIL:e of mortaity ..d f-rilit7 trends fnn prolation  lpare-s                              of tta,or , ceo ro-a  d-nLiege nrpeeoee.y.
auo- T.     t  io      wpafti.ttO  there in ra groeth
cl bfiiitiVi    is eL ual i t..he dr-h rte, and sin  the age                          80060108
troanrclet onotI-t  Thie is onhe-d only cft.. fertiLIty rstae                        WNt.  E-oro1an   SAtIo.
d_olt_  to the rplacmet lt_1 of anit oat roprd-ti.ou     rat, utcPicy  onl-tta.rl.n  feao-G_o  toal.                                                       ci       eml
_ah gen_rtio  of   _s  rePi.... itaNif etlrti.  Theeuitr                                        orlmn    f  l  goa theprmrylee typreuamtofrepegt
PoPalait.ILrOtc  L. tinatd ante-aie of the projecte  rh.reIt-                                    pri-ay  sloiaoperuloti-e;   -LLayioldn rhild-e  ege  b-Il
ito ofthe paltill In the yr-  20000, tod the rtof  -Li-c of                                Iecr %bt adjocond frdifrntiegh   f  ncyfcrta.   o
Orr  taIaa  reoalo1   nae      h   nt   Oorroe -Palone   .. .Ace   uil   r  hm    r  br  teo foa   ocn  oW.
pouato   Nie  il   e   aco. hd   7creloo  -tti. Yeot-;L-  an  irmel -. CelAlao  on aoo  rn. ar
totalareal1960  1970  aodISSO   rta.pipile ceaol  at LT tu 17 Iears of at.; orrpeeo    eaAs on
ol   1960, 1970 and IPOdt.fcafnlrtlaoaIrroro 2eaaoar      ocOcltalef
PnoolattOO  Me IrootuPe (toroeci - Children (014 yetrl.)  nerkIng-ogl 115-            itoad   rohtoh   Ltrtr . orohrprarsek;                         peaetNe
64 -anr), ed rcttrn   (65"l pHrene   -) on pecoec   f aid-rear                                 rt_1ura  depert-rto up  -eoeday  rittc.
peolto1960. 1970, .Acu  ali1 da-a                                                       Iot-toh          Iaio - ertar. tadrmcoat-Toa   tdaa  .atdI
PnnloaoOroh kate      -0eoet  -Ittl - nta  g th rat ar   f total aid-                        Pria-y and  -erod-T leI.- dI.     la  bysehaen  tahnefth   n
peto papeLani   fo  1606.' 1960-  d.at 1970-91.                                                  Orpandiog  aor
pmnl.tiao Irooh Rae.      crst  - arb.a -   .e-Ia  a-et  rate of arbe                            drlinorunoott)-   Liteat  Mlt  Aah   oredcterfo
P.  lato... for 15-60.L190-70. Lan17RSt                                                         a  eonap   tttl  dl  ooe,asAgNd 15 PoA. te  n-W.
Yoor pnplte;060   90   n  1981 fc.                                                          lRet10PTION'
Crude beac  taco (oar thogond)- lroe  doths per thoonad o i d-y- rPseeoerCas  0c  thoattd ro.eaa) - P--acs  or  Rowl-r a
ptotic1960, 170  end 192dta                                                               aeeato    .0 tin  eittprea              ;ebld clier.here   m
fertIlIty rate;  tolpfrepe  aoccee  vedin  iv 1960. 1970. ,5                                    bruadoact  to gerrd  oahio P.r th-.eo  of pSaat              aIedes e-
lyf 1.                                                        Ilaa..d rraeOveeeIa on60tctoOend to pue-  caIn realatain  of  WeIa
trail   LAp        plti A-Mo.vnre   tu-a  (thou.-del - bataIonera  ao.pbr.socto  i  rfeto; data for rena  Ieore  -y ext he  -Wenbl. cie mett
ofbrhoorlderI..  Aede  aaepicea uf tiooai fetip  piaex_ocontle  ahiiehoA li-tattup
progra,,                                                   TO heteivure Irer nheaaOef rorulatloof - ~~~~~TV r-c ...o for bresit..et to
tcaOlrOteonun - enot percat cf  eorto  eoeci - lsroooee ci  arnednerorl poOir pe  zhe.eced ppn(etav1 toladT,ociieaacdOr TV ei-a.
ae  of rtld-lrvaing woo(17-44  eere I  to ate  itch-torldor   oIn  oatre     i,v-yar  ao  rfortt a  TV  ec  n.ei  effet.
oil  arrad  anrt I  Sue  Ovegrou.--                                                   uraao    ir  aln(o   iaaarrlro)-She  theaerg
FOOD tOO NITRITIfO                                                                                   olrla  0  c    alyonee   t-oe  oe-eaer, d.ianod noA pertJAdrl
aooual yrodtntlao of all food cauditias.  Productlatenolo...dec .eed and          to oe  daily" tt it appar   At lxet foar tiLr  Ara.
feed   i an IeotclNde  year he..  Ca-ldlie- coe  prte-ty Sande (e..                         10.0aoa    teraonat  rlo  eSa  Al    APo,ti                           r  f
eagarara  ntcea  of ougar  ud'tat cr.  dIble And -outair  aret   n                       tioket  cld durtog the pou.  modin             ..eio   -  drOn-ta nOn  e
-cnffn  aUd toe Are ealdedf.  Aggrogc  prndutiot of Seth  -orcr  is                               abile ralts.
hate   on tai.-ia  .-.rug  prodao   prttc raighto; 1961-65, 1970, ad 198f
late                                                                                        IdOt FOtOt
Par ...t   xrl  00. osgr-I      (o.eca   roioat) - Coepteti.                                     oilbr MaP   Iteaudol-itnlolyrtonpra.teide 
erargyeqoiroato Of"ifoo Aapleealal   0conr   e  tAN                    per                 foc.  and aoomytlapd  o  ecludisa  horatre   pteeat,or..  cce
day.  Oralahle epphicc  oapnle.de.attopo.   otr  Lmporto lace                           popaleto. nof ALl ag.#.  bfnl           i   ain.- co.tte-. oe  a
I'ooa,ad the     L.i tcek.  lie saplite  .Iclde -aL.    U ted   -And.,.e.. rutrble; 1960. 1970 Aod 195 dat.
qa fLne oed in food pro-cefo, tdoeeindnruca.                                                                   -FaLb.,o for.  an PerAnege of teaL imbar fr-
~alr~ntarnrse,tintedby rA0 heed on phyatiogi-al nod  for roraa                                           next) - L.bnr font in fanmig. foretr. otente  ead
ot,vt  and  nei th __rid.rtng  tinmoc   bepttr.hdy_rigte.                                      f        Ah.gc  P,rr..,. of  ta1 labor tort; 19Sa. 1979 en  leSI daga.
tc cAli era diatribaiit  ofpo.acn. ed alu   10 Merrect for toet                                  lboer  (fo -Let  - LAthur Parr  ieetg         -oatbutte..emarg
athoeod lavc; 19165   970 gld 1980 data                                                      ond   incitity Ia         n - .e anprorg f rocal laor ferm:lOo
per caflt  earnlp  f onoteto(aea  .e.ey- roctcou  ofper tapita                                  1970 AMt 1981 dat.
at tupply af fond per day.  tat     -pl   ffo  Ia dlofioed an abort                .            l, Mti IiaSaelaret -. ttt.1cl.adtml    Iriielee
S"anoatefrAi -totrice e.lbahisd by U(SDA p-ride  . ton e-iot,u                                  a totY rate  eta  eertedenatl raa.en  mRe lab'fr
alocoa   ff60 gree  of tota  Proteo par day aat 10 aen  of exl-a  snd                      retou         ftonI., solo Aao  feaa. Pop-lato  of all ugra rratigely
pulex prtt,a  nbtoh 10 grec  htoaid be .nteaI Otti Tha..90   90  adIN   aa   moe. ar'eedo lt prtle                                                                        ae
erancrdsone  ararthet thee.  f 75 treat of ota-IP ptont  and 23  rsnoittgec-oetutrofinpPALAtioc  and i.  Itime treed.  A
of eximal prtegceanevorgo  o   h   cid   rprdb   Mf in thc                              te-alte   reOe  oicL aat
ThIrd  Iad me.d S-         1                 IIt.L Ico.y  19  't'  ,I     IP.db Y 61-65,190 9nd  00 dat.  toetaSOedayOcl    Ratio  fP..nlaIAII   onder 11 AMd 65- ne1        t
Chill (teec 1-6) bOc  RAte (our tho,-ad) - cAtoel  cthe PerIhut t            tupnet.  sPrct   nee(oh   ta  adOl                                           - .titod-   yvri- 
ago trup 14 pure. t  rilidex  Co  Ue agegvaap;furoe=oaoic                          pentc  vOet00prst.poec  Rpret,adPoarect  A ecran  o
rooort. dta  araed   on life t.blea; 1960. 1970 AMd 1981 -et-                              oehl.
00brt1160   97   n  1691 dent.if                                                             Thoal  heIM OutrIetd  0t  ttniorbi  oIfo
Albrtharf    "olottalA. cr.,adrra)-t eeoal   oe    osf                                           fodabe
catAmias   te  eo   eta  fe   otoe  hurotoles L    roolge, rndOur                                     P_rlalIs pain   aaoI lC   u-hr   fanaaprtpt
aaltpIII) ecvtns.to   hriraptlspaoltio.10a                                                     erxa  Ic, o  t               Lcaty    Ihc[sdi  drod  retiIan
ft.a160   a   e  osdre   etivS  .utl  nonooaca  of.   I               tha                  ttfeta -on dltlnote  io       t  'IoutPnnt   noelve   rns                - tuh
_rhr   f o   oneadd  tthr  n   po   AIeppapOrttdete peer v
Atoesrtottvett Ila  .... gye rtecf t onalatn                     W oa.  re.And- Ii                         .ft           ty             -1i   .I.    -I              .
rarbl- l.0000bli of.porototal  a_.pha t Ia ...al  errud- tyeoorao-a-U                                                   f,hLM,-
h-peoa   Ioreonte   0  OO  resperirtppltoa   toorata dteposal
ray lraolad  the orllction and dopocel, aih Or outbot tLaaet  a                                                        otal  adtfALRc   Ovgo
prioles and sielar ioecal iietau.                                                                                                                  st, 98



-28-                                                     ASINEX I
Page 4 of 5
TURKEY - COUNTRY DATA
Population:       45.5 million (1981)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1540 (1981)
Amount              Average Annual Increase 1%)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$           (at constant 1980 prices)                  (at current prices)
Indicator                                  at current prices)
1982              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80          1965      1970      1975    1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                      52,890                 6.6         7.5        2.8        100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture                                 10,324                 3.1        4.4        2.7         30.7      26.4      26.2    21.4
Industry /b                                 13,527                 9.5        9.5        2.8         16.6      17.2      18.0    28.6
Services                                    26,073                 8.2        8.0        3.7         42.9      46.5      46.0    44.3
Consumption                                    44,345                  5.8       7.0        2.7          84.6      82.8      85.2    &1.8
Gross investment                               10,705                 11.7       12.9        0.6         16.7      20.1      23.3    26.4
Exports of goods and NFS                        7,618                  7.9        7.3       4.4           6.1       5.8       6.1      7.1
Imports of goods and NFS                        9,778                11.2       13.8       -3.1           7.4      8.7      14.5    15.2
Gross national savings                          9,250                11.6       11.9        2.4          15.8      18.8      18.1    18.3
Average Annual IrLcrease (%)        Composition of Merchandise Trade (M)
(at constant 1980 prices)                 (at current prices)
1972-75       1975-80                     1972     1975      1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE /c
Merchandise exports                             5,746                     -6.1        2.8                        100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                      2,317                    -6.3        4.0                         72.6      64.1      64.0
Industrial products                          3,429                    -5.8        0.9                         27.4      35.9      36.0
Merchandise imports                             8,734                     11.2        1.2                        100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture and livestock                      176                    27.9      -23.8                          2.2       4.3       0.7
Mining and quarrying                           212                    17.4        6.8                          1.2       1.6       1.8
Petroleum                                    3,640                     5.4       1L.0                          9.9      17.1      48.8
Machinery and equipment                      2,352                    14.0      -12.1                         45.0      35.6      18.2
Other industrial products                    2,354                     9.9        4.5                         41.7      41.4      30.5
1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator (1980 = 100)                                  29.0       49.4      100.0      142.1       181.5
Exchange rate                                              24.3       31.1       76.0      111.2      162.6
Export price index                                         63.0       78.2      100.0       91.9       92.4
Import price index                                         61.2       71.9      100.0      101.8      102.6
Terms oi trade index                                      102.9      108.8      100.0       90.3       90.1
As Y of GDP
(at cuirrent prices)
1965        1970       1975       1980       1982
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                      15.0        22.6       22.0        19.8       17.0
Current expenditure                                                  10.0        11.8        12.6      11.5         8.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                           -2.0        -2.3       -0.4       -4.8       -1.0
Investment expenditure                                                4.7         5.7        4.2        3.9        3.9
Transfers                                                             5.0          7.5       5.5        9.2        6.0
Foreign financing                                                     1.8          1.6       0.3        0.2       -0.01
1965-70   1970-75   1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                                          6.8        7.7        2.6
GNP per capita growth rate (T)                                               4.1        5.0        0.3
ICOR                                                                         2.9        2.9        5.7
Marginal savings rate (x)                                                   28.2       19.5       30.8
Import elasticity                                                            1.7       1L.8       -1.3
la   At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
T7   Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity, gas, and water.
/c   In accordance with Turkish Government's specifications, which are not compatiLle with SITC's.



-29-                                                                 hNNEX I
Ruoc S of S
TURKEY - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL, AND DE3T Ia
(million US$ at current prices)
Popilatioc:       45.5 cillion  (1981)
GNP Per COpitaL:  US$1540 (1981)
Actual                                      Estimated            Pr-jected
1970      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982        1983       184        1985        1986       1987
bALANCO OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods 8 NFS                             342       1984       2442       4658        3476       1993        2032       2065       2305       2571       2764
Expocts of goots & NFS                              754       3075       3247       4102       6416       7874         7962       9527      11214      13073      15191
IEports or goods & NFS                            1096        5059       5689       8760       9892       9867        9994      11592       13519      15644      17955
Workers' re-ittances                                   273        983       1694       2071       2490       2187         1550       1982       2170       2409       2674
Net transfecs                                           91          -           -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Cacrect accocnt balasce                                -58      -1741      -1771      -3207      -2076      -1010        -1808      -1587      -1763      -1976      -7051
Direct privoc-ejOVesect                                 92        147        200        148         129        125         127        130        144        158        174
r             P.blsc FeLT (gro-s) /b                                 271       1017       4321       2354        2188       2076        1867       1857       1968       2318       2681
A-ortiaation on M&LT /b                               -146       -336       -414       -434       -545      -1230        -1105      -1258      -1783      -2093      -2283
Publ-c U6LT (cet) /b                                   125        681       3907       1920       1643        846          762        599        182        225        398
Other capital Ic                                        27       1061      -2410       1642         983        200         368       1059       1730       1916       1835
Chnage In reserves (- = ccrease)                      -186       -148         74       -503       -680       -162          550       -202       -293       -324       -356
sIeernalso.al reserves                                 612        874        800       1303       1889       2050         1500       1702       1991       2319       2675
Resceres an months of imports                            7          2          2           2          2          2           2          2          2          2          2
Actual
1972      1977     1978       1979      1980     1981      1982
GROSS DISdURSEMENTS
Gross d-sb-rsements                                                           372       759       85'      4198 /d  2279       2116      2020
Official grants                                                              -         -         -         -         -       300       200
Concessional1                                                              261       193       228       588       812       527       355
Bilateral                                                               139       100       129      406        749      499       283
IDA                                                                       4        19         8         3         -         -         -
Other                                                                   Ilaltilaeral  118  74  91    179         63        23        71
Noo-coo.esx. oc. 111                                                                566       629      3610 /d  1466       1294      1465
Official export credits                                                   1        47       133      250        288      355       400
IBRD                                                                     25       146       165      277       313       454       665
Otch-r multiateral                                                       27         5        35        15       150       162       147
Private                                                                 58       368       296      3068 /d   715        323       253
EXTERNA;I. DEST
Scot -ststanding and disbursed                                               2450      4293      6322    10942    13415    13804    14296
Official                                                                  2273      3457      5489      7189      8281      8906     10123
1BRD                                                                    92       512       648       890      1158      1546      2144
IDA                                                                     99       181       188       190       189       188       187
th-er                                                                 2082      2964      4653      6109      6934      7172      7772
Private                                                                    177       63b       833      3753      5134      4898      4193
[.ebt outstandig o-clsdi.g sodosborsed                                       3560      7128      9879    14620    16807    17093    19561
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt sevc   c224                                                                  363       428       627      lOll      1231      2385
PalYcetse                                                                  161       196       264       403       405       546      1229
Interest                                                                    63       167       164       224       596       685      1155
Total debt service as X exposts of goods u NFS
* woracos' remittances                                                   11.8      10.3      10.6      12.7      16.2      13.8      23.7
Total debt service as X GNP                                                  1.3       0.8       0.9       0.9       1.7       2.0       4.4
Average isterest rate .. new  oass (X)                                       4.4       7.7       6.9      11.3       6.5       7.6       7.3
Official                                                                  4.5       7.7       5.6       3.5       5.5       5.3       6.2
Pr-cate                                                                   6.8       7.8       8.2      13.6      10.6      15.4      12.0
Average matority of new loans (years)                                       22.1      11.6      13.3      11.1      17.4      15.0      18.4
Official                                                                 26.0      12.7      15.2      25.1      16.6      16,3      21.1
Private                                                                  11.0       9.2       7.6       7.1       6.4       4.5       8.0
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (I)
IBRSD DOD/total DOD                                                          3.7      11.9      10.2       3.1       8.6      11.2      15.0
IBRD di.bursemeota/total gross disb-rsements                                 6.7      19.1      18.4       6.5      13.7      25.0      32.9
IBRD debt service/total debt service /e                                      5.1      17.2      19.2      16.8      13.3      14.0       9.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                            3.9       4.2       3.0       1.7       1.4       1.4       1.3
1DA d-soursementadtctal groan disbo-semeote                                  1.1       2.5       0.9       3.1       -         -         -
IDA debt service/total debt service Is                                       0.4       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.3       0.2       -
As fof Debt Oust-anding
ct End of Most Resent
Year (1982)
TERMS STZUCTURE
MatLrito structute of debt outstandiog (Y)
Maturities dae within 5 years                                                                     39.9
Mat-rit-es doe within 10 years                                                                    79.5
Interest structure of debt outstanding (X)
Interest due within first year                                                                     6.5
/a   All entries os esternal dcbt are defined as in the Bank's Debtor Reporting Systee  (only public and private guaranteed M6LT debt).
/ob Icludes private guarante-d and son-guaranteed debt and grants.
In   Includes errors and emissions, and for projected years it includes oct IMF, short-tem, and -nideotif-ed capital inflows.
/d Isclde.s $2,638 cillion of consolidated short-term debt.
/e Taie: account of debt relief doe to debt rescheduling, sod e-cludes interest on short-term debt and privote non-guaranteed debt.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page I of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS Ili TURKEY
A.        STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of September 30, 1983)
Loan                                                                               Amount ($ millions) /e
Number    FY      Borrower                  Purpose                           Bank        IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-seven loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                      2079.0    177.4
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey         Ceyhan Aslantas                    44.0                  8.0
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey         Rural Development                   75.0                12.6
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)           Agriculture Credit                 54.3                 26.8
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Livestock III                      21.5                  6.1
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Tourism                            26.0                 14.6
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Northern Forestry                  86.0                 49.8
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                       24.0                 17.9
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemnir Steel Stage II            95.0                 29.6
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation               75.0                 30.8
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                      85.0                 81.1
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                       Industry                           60.0                  9.2
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                       Private Sector Textiles            65.0                 38.3
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                       Private Sector Textiles             15.0                10.3
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control         6.0                 5.1
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower               120.0                 83.3
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Sumerbank Cotton Textiles          83.0                 65.4
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                        51.0                 45.9
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration              25.0                 22.3
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery                       62.0                 37.5
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Labor Intensive Industry           40.0                 31.4
1967-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Second Fruit and Vegetables        40.0                 38.0
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 110.0                 97.2
1998-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         State Industrial Enterprise
Finance                          70.0                62.5
2093-TU   1982   TSKB                       Export-Oriented Industries        100.0                 99.1
2094-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Erzurum Rural Development          40.0                 36.0
2131-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey          Second Fertilizer
Rehabilitation                  38.0                 37.4
2137-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Highway                             71.1                61.0
2159-TU   1982   TSKI                       Istanbul Sewerage                  88.1                 86.4
2318-TU/b 1983   TCZB                       Second Agricultural Credit        150.4                150.4
2321-TU   1983   Republic of Turkey         Fourth Structural Adjustment   300.8                   300.0
2322-TU/c 1983   TEK                        Third TEK Transmissiorn           163.0                163.0
2327-TU/c 1983   TPAO                       Thrace Gas Exploration             55.2                 55.2
Total                                                      4418.4    177.4    1812.2
of which has been repaid                                  439.8      11.0
Total now outstanding                                      3978.6    166.4
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                       - 0 -    - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /d                          3978.6    166.4
Total undisbursed                                          1812.2    - 0 -
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Not yet effective.
/c Became effective in November 1983.
/d Prior to exchange adjustments.
Ie Net of cancellations.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B.        STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                        Amount ($ Millions)
Year      Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB           DF5                                  -        0.92      0.92
1966      SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90      0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II        DFC                                  -        0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III       DFC                                  -        0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                          1.50      0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I       Pulp and Paper                      2.50      0.67      3.17
1970     ACS            Glass                              10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS          Aluminum                            7.00      1.37      8.37
1971      SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75       -        0.75
1971/83  Viking II    Pulp and Paper                         -        0.15      0.15
1972     SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                           -        0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV        DFC                                  -        0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V         DFC                                10.00       -       10.00
1973     Akdeniz        Tourism                             0.33      0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan        Steel Pipes                         3.60      0.43      4.03
1974     AKSA           Textiles                           10.00       -       10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                              1.30       -        1.30
1975     Sasa           Nylon Yarn                         15.00       -       15.00
1975     Aslan          Cement                             10.60       -       10.60
1975     DOKTAS         Steel                               7.50      1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB           DFC                                25.00      1.23    26.23
1976/83/
84     NASAS         Aluminum                             1.58      0.09      1.67
1976     TSKB           DFC                                25.00       -       25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                                12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan        Steel Pipes                          -        0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS         Steel                                -        0.16      0.16
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                    2.15       -        2.15
1979     ISAS           Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.85      0.45      9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                  -        1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                                33.15      3.43    36.58
1980     TSKB           DFC                                  -        1.09      1.09
1980/82/
84     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories          -        1.67      1.67
i980     MENSA          Textiles and Fibers                 4.0                 4.0
1981     Kirklareli
Cam Sanayii
A.S.        Glass Tableware                    12.99       -       12.99
1982     M.A.N.
Motors      Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.41       -        8.41
1982     TSKB           DFC                                  -        0.35      0.35
1984     Pinar          Food and Food Processing            3.90                3.90
Total Gross Commitments                         218.01    21.89   239.90
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                     150.94      8.30   159.24
Total Commitments now held by IFC                67.07    13.59    80.66
Total Undisbursed                                11,26      1.07    12.33



-32--                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND APPLIED) RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Time taken by country to                   One year (May 1982 to May
prepare project                            1983).
(b)      Agency Preparing Project                   General Directorate of
Agricultural Affairs of the
Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry, and Rural Affairs.
(c)      First presented to Bank                    May 1983.
(d)      Appraisal                                  May/June 1983.
(e)      Negotiations                               February 1984.
(f)      Planned Loan Effectiveness                 July 1984.
Section II:         Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:        Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)    Effectiveness of IFAD loan (para 58);
(ii)   Opening of special accounts for Project revolving funds (para 62);
(iii)  Establishment of project administration unit, central and regional
coordinating committees and designation of Project Coordinator
(para 64);
(iv)   Signing of interagency protocols (para 65); and
(v)    Establishment of ministerial working groups on extension and
research reorganization (paras 41 and 43).



-33-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)   Other Conditions:
(i)    Recruitment of adequate project staff in accordance with schedule
acceptable to the Bank (para 57) and issuance of revised job
descriptions for project area extension staff (para 52);
(ii)    Undertaking mid-term review of project implementation (para 55);
(iii)    Employment of consultants or international agency for administering
overseas training (para 56);
(iv)    Submission not later than September 15 each year for review by Bank
of annual work program and proposed budget allocations (para 58);
(v)    Provision of adequate budgetary funds after project completion for
maintenance in project area of extension and research systems
introduced under project (para 59); and
(vi)    Availability of adequate agricultural inputs and credit (para 60).






OBRD IV5 
-   '/ I                                                                            33                                '                               '     :;    .. -r                                             IOVRDRCC  1084
BULGARIA             ,                                                                                                                                                        K i'
)'r/   *    >,KIRKLARELI                                                 L                                                                                                                                          U A  SIANO *  ..  L    KASTAjj  S.ORU  . A  -   _v  >ARTVIN   ,  \  U.S.S.R.
(5                                                                         9                                        -- .1 -N                                        RZ                         AR
f ' \ $ <- f - ~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONGULDAK                                                 v(SAMSUNf ,,-TRBO lv!KS 
f                                                                                     k,"'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D   
TEKIRDAG                        KOCAELIF                _  %% NSatf                                     r                                                                  .. IIEUZ9    -<     
NV:                               N                                 AMASYA                          GIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESUN~
VAI     KOCAELIOL r                                                          ACNKRSYA.--                                                                                               ..
BOL                           -/^j_ SA                     <  ANIRI \CORUM  p A              CUMUSHANE    g   ERZURUM               r                         \
-   ~~~~ ~       SAK   AL:UK                                                                      
U X r 7- F ~~~~~ -- r < -- i ,<~~~~~ TOKAT _1>AR  
BU                  ILE-C-                                 .r-K e                                                      ?      ERZINCANARI. 
40-  CANAKKALE   \               BURSA        BILECIK(        -                                                      - -                                          r.       _ -                                              ISLAMIC                 40
BALIKESIR        -<,J    .J          ESKISEHIR            A/                     .    YOZCAT        JSTUNCELI                                           B NOL        m                   I                 REPUBLIC   OF
ANKARA , ..KRSEHIR                     I'                                    TUCL                          MJS              /     VAN        \      IRAN
KUTAHYA                                             H.-..       _             JBIT  S
MANISA  AFYON                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELAZIG  .. 
)  \  t  MANISA  j   S   AFYON  t   t-     SNEVSEH4W       KAYSE  MALATYA                                                                 -  - iAYSER                -
.-  MUGLA   1    1  ( H-.' z   GAZANTEP_.-                                                            AGRICULTURAIYARBAKIR  E NSIIRT
.1)                                                                     /             N.-Y                                               _N AR
AYDIN1DENIZUS --                                                                                                                                               -   - -A  A             P       UNDER        11
DNZIBURDUIR   SPRAINAV.                                                                 OA       ADYMR            UE                       AGNTRE
GAZ3A5                                                                 AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND
MUGLA                                                                                                 J-j,Z._TE                                                                   APPLIED RESEARCH  PROJECT
MUGLA                 ~~~~~ANTALYA                                           .t                                                                                                     PROJECT AREA
ICEL                                  SYRIAN ARAB  REPUBLIC
I':                                         HATA_  i                                                                          PROVINCES UNDE Ot  P   ': ',S0ATO 160A-  I-N ANDC 5-ES
KILANTE -- 1                                           NTERNASDNN4   EOUNDAR - - L E 5 -
30  3,5'AARICLAL -5010. ROUNO-- 00 CLAS
NOR ORL APIOTAL-
-I  '                                                                    0    4~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0 80  120   VA0            -   -POICAL D--DA-SD
30                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~315                                      4O'



