OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2405 TU
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2405 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    1984, between REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan), in an amount equivalent
to nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,700,000), to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Bank as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Bank is prepared
to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿- 2 -
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the 1, .n account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b) "MPWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works
and Resettlement;
(c) "MAFRA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Rural Affairs;
(d) "GDAA" means the General Directorate of Agricultural
Affairs of MAFRA;
(e) "TZ extension service" and "TZ" mean Teknik Ziraat, the
field extension service within GDAA;
(f) "TURDOK" means the Borrower's National Documentation
Center;
(g) "FRT" means the Film, Radio and Television Center
within the Ministry of Education;
(h) "TRT"   means   the  Borrower's  Radio  and  Television
Service;
(i) "TCZB" means Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi, the
Borrower's Agricultural Bank;
(j) "Bank Special Account" and "Fund Special Account" mean
the accounts to be opened and maintained pursuant to Section 3.02
(b) of this Agreement;
(k) "Project Area" means the area covered by sixteen of the
Borrower's provinces, which provinces may be grouped into four
zones as follows: (1) Izmir, Manisa, Balikesir, Canakkale, Bursa
and Denizli; (2) Eskisehir, Kutahya, Afyon, Isparta and Burdur;
(3) Ankara and Konya; and (4) Diyarbakir, Urfa and Mardin
(Southeast Anatolia);
(1) "EIC" means the Extension Information Center referred
to in Part A.2 of the Project;
(m) "Annual Work Program" means the programs riferred to in
Section 4.08 of this Agreement; and


﻿-3-
(n) "fiscal year" means the period January 1 to Decem-
ber 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-two million two hundred thousand dollars ($72,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article III
of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred eighty thousand and fifty dollars
($180,050).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the L3an withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.


﻿(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.07
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"   means:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1.982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982), less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or        the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Loan and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement, the amount of the Loan and the amount of the Fund Loan
may be withdrawn from the Loan Account and the Fund Loan Account,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such alloca-
tion may be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions
of such Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower,
the Bank and the Fund.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for purposes of civil works, office
furniture and incremental operating costs to be financed under
the Project, open and thereafter maintain at the T.C. Merkez
Bankasi a Bank Special Account and a Fund Special Account on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Fund,
respectively. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Bank
Special Account and the Fund Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedules 6 and 7 to this
Agreement, respectively.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Bank a written application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Bank or the Fund
shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, with the
necessary documentation as hereinafter provided, shall, except as
the Borrower, the Bank and the Fund shall otherwise agree, be
made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the bank such documents
and other evidence in support of the appliation as the Bank or
the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Bank shall have approved any withdrawal requested in the applica-
tion.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Bank or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from
the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds to
be withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by
the Bank, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances, between
the Loan and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 88:12, or such other


﻿- 6 -
ratio as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Fund; provided,
however, that, in respect of Categories (1) (a) and 1 (b) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, or in any other case where an application shall be made in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan only or the Fund Loan only, such application shall be deemed
to be a request to withdraw funds from the Loan Account or the
Fund Loan Account only, as the case may be.
Section 3.05. When the Bank shall have approved an applica-
tion by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Bank shall:
(a) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Loan Account to or on the order of the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement;
and/or
(b) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan Account in the
aggregate amount specified in such notice, that it has approved
payment of the portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and that the
portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account in the amount
set forth in such notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Loan or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals in respect of
Categories (2), (4) and (6) shall be deemed to be requested for
withdrawal of the full amount applied for from the Fund Loan
Account or the Loan Account only, and the provisions of this
Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof shall continue to
apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount credited or to be
credited to such Account shall have been withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request, and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Bank may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund, enter into
special commitments to pay amounts, out of the proceeds of the
Fund Loan, to the Borrower or to others in respect of the cost of
goods required by the Project, subject to the provisions of this
Agreement concerning the allocation and apportionment of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised the Bank that any
such special commitment shall, once it has been notified to the
Fund, constitute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay,


﻿- 7 -
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the
Fui.d Loan, the amount to be disbursed out of the proceeds of the
Fund Loan in fulfillment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
GDAA with assistance from MPWR, or other agency acceptable to the
Bank, for civil works construction under the Project, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall establish and thereafter maintain for the purposes of the
Project: (i) administrative entities acceptable to the Bank,
including a Central Coordination Committee, a Central Executive
Committee, four Regional Committees and a Project Administration
Unit, each of which shall at all times have powers and functions
sufficient to carry out their respective responsibilities under
the Project; and (ii) recruit and assign additional staff for the
Project in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, through GDAA, enter into,
and thereafter maintain, protocols on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank: (1) with the agricultural faculties at the
Universities of Ankara, Izmir and Adana to assist in training of
TZ staff under the Project; and (2) with TURDOK, FRT and TRT to
assist in staff training and operations at EIC.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
September 30, 1984, or such other date as the Bank shall agree,
employ an organization for administration of the training program
under Part D.2 of the Project; and (b) employment consultants in


﻿-8-
accordance with a timetable and staffing schedule acceptable
to the Bank for consultancy services under the Project, all of
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and all of which
shall be selected in accordance with the principles and proce-
dures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 4.04. For purposes of the reorganization of the TZ
extension service to be carried out under Part A.1 of the Project
and for improving the links between research and extension, the
Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1984, issue revised
job descriptions for all TZ staff in the Project Area and for
selected GDAA research staff which shall reflect an extension
organizational structure and operational methods agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such in-
surance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely us-
able by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause all goods and services finan-
ced out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to tho Bank
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall, through GDAA: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's and the
Fund's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed


﻿-9-
out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) prepare, for each semester during
the Project, progress and evaluation reports for the Project;
(iv) furnish to the Bank and the Fund, at regular intervals
during Project execution, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, within two months from the end of
each semester, the progress and evaluaticn reports referred to in
paragraph (b) (iii) of this Section; (v) prior to the end of the
second year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank and the
Fund for their review and comment, terms of reference for a mid-
term review of the Project; and (vi) during the third year of
Project execution, and in any event not later than March 31,
1987, carry out a mid-term review of the Project, in consultation
with the Bank and the Fund, and thereafter consult with the Bank
and the Fund on adjustments, if necessary, in the organization
and operation of the Project as may be appropriate following the
conclusions of such review.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may be publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall provide to the
Bank, on request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Septem-
ber 15 of each year during Project execution, furnish to the Bank
and the Fund, for their review and comment, a draft Annual Work
Program for the following year; each such draft Annual Work
Program shall include the information set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement and shall be accompanied by any supporting docu-
mentation and information as the Bank may reasonably r4quest; and
(b) thereafter, revise said draft Annual Work Program,
taking into account the comments of the Bank and the Fund and,
prior to the beginning of the fiscal year for which said Annual
Work Program was drawn up, inform the Bank and the Fund of the
budgetary allocations (including separate identification of
investments, salaries and other operating expenses) for the
Project for such fiscal year and the corresponding revised Annual
Work Program.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall: (a) establish, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter main-
tain until completion of their functions under said terms of
reference, ministerial working groups to develop, inter alia,
medium-term plans for the reorganization and consolidation of the
Borrower's agricultural research and extension services and for
meeting the medium-term manpower and training requirements for
research and extension; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1986, discuss with the Bank
the findings and recommendations of said ministerial working
groups, together with a proposed action plan for carrying out
said recommendations.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,


﻿- 11 -
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
the T.C. Merkez Bankasi or any institution performing the
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and
submit to the Bank within two months after the end of each
semester detailed statements of such expenditures for said
semester.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year


﻿- 12 -
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; and (iii) enable the Bank and the Fund's representa-
tives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank and the Fund, in the English
language, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by
said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred
to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and the proceeds of the
Fund Loan withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account, on the basis of
statements of expenditure, have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall: (a) at all times cause
the buildings, equipment and machinery included in the Project to
be adequately maintained and cause all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof to be made promptly as required; and (b) unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, for at least ten years following
completion of the Project, maintain in the Project Aree the
extension and research systems introduced under the Project, all
in accordance with appropriate agricultural and management
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for these purposes.
Section 5.04. Without limitation to the provisions of para-
graph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
take all measures necessary to ensure availability to farmers in
the Project Area of (a) credit facilities, through TCZB or other
appropriate entity, and (b) agricultural inputs, both in amounts


﻿- 13 -
sufficient to enable said farmers to benefit effectively from
the expanded extension services made available under the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any loan (including the Fund Loan) made
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the provision of subparagraph (b) of that
paragraph.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿- 14 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a)  the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower
of the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental action and all other conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pursuant to the
Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been duly fuifilled; and the Fund has appointed
the Bank as Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(b) the opening of the Bank Special Account and the Fund
Special Account referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement
in accordance with the provisions thereof;
(c) the    establishment  of   the  administrative   entities
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement and the
designation of a Project Coordinator;
(d)  the signature of the protocols referred to in Section
4.02 of this Agreement; and
(e) the establishment of the ministerial working groups
referred to in Section 4.09 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a)  the   Central  Coordination   Committee,   the   Central
Executive Committee, the four Regional Committees and the Project
Administation Unit referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement have been duly established as administrative entities;
and
(b) the protocols referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement have been duly signed and delivered and duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary administrative and governmental
action.
Section 7.03. The date-                  is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.0   of the General Conditions.


﻿15 -
Section 7.04. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Loan Agreement shall have failed to
come into force and effect by the date specified in Section 7.03
of this Agreement or a later date established by the Bank for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions, or (ii) the
entire principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and all charges which shall have accrued on the Loan
shall have been paid before the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.04
and 12.05 of the General Conditions, the Loan Agreement shall be
deemed to be, or to remain, in force and effect but only to the
extent required for the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan
Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest
to the parties thereunder, subject to such modifications of the
Loan Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Bank
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated, or (ii) the Bank shall notify the Borrower that its
appointment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agree-
ment has terminated, the provisions of this Agreement shall, to
the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan, forthwith termi-
nate; provided, however, that in the case described in the
foregoing clause (ii) such termination shall apply only to the
responsibilities of the Bank as such Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and
Foreign Trade of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret Mustesarligi
Mithatpasa Caddesi No. 18
Yenisehir - Ankara
Turkey


﻿- 16 -
Cable address:                 Telex:
14ALIYE                      821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
HAZINE                      821-42689 (ANK-TR)
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                   440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdraval of the Proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the    Amount of the
Loan Allocated    Fund Loan        % of
(Expressed       Allocated     Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in      to be
Category          Equivalent)   SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(1) Civil
works and
furniture
(a) for TZ in       -            2,130,000     20% of local
Southeast                                 expenditures
Anatolia
(b) others      11,700,000            -        20% of local
expenditures
(2) Vehicles         11,440,000       1,510,000     100% of for-
eign expen-
ditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Equipment,        4,900,00             -        100% of for-
books and                                      eign expendi-
periodicals                                    tures, 100%
of local ex-
penditures
(ex-factory)
and 80% of
local expen-
ditures for
items procured
through local
shopping


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the    Amount of the
Loan Allocated    Fund Loan         % of
(Expressed       Allocated     Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in      to be
Category          Equivalent)   SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(4) Overseas        10,120,000         1,340,000    100%
training
(5) Consultants'     1,470,000             -        100% of for-
services                                       eign expendi-
tures for con-
sultants domi-
ciled outside
Turkey and
90% for other
consultants
(6) Incremental     17,820,000        2,360,000     50% up to an
operating                                      aggregate
costs                                          amount of $17
million; 30%
thereafter up
to an aggre-
gate amount of
$25 million;
and 10% there-
after
(7) Initial          4,400,000          580,000
deposits in
the Bank
Special
Account and
the Fund
Special
Account to
prefinance
items under
Categories (1)
(b) and (6),
and Categories
(1) (a) and (6)
respectively


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the    Amount of the
Loan Allocated    Fund Loan         % of
(Expressed       Allocated      Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in      to be
Category          Equivalent)    SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(8) Fee                180,050               -      Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(9) Unallocated     10,169,950         1,780,000
TOTAL     72,200,000         9,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower and
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental operating costs" means the amount
per annum by which operating costs of Project activities exceed
the operating costs expended by the Borrower on equivalent
activities in the Project Area in Fiscal Year 1983; "operating
costs" includes salaries and allowances for GDAA local personnel,
expenditures for the operation and maintenance of buildings,
offices, vehicles, and inputs and materials for agricultural ex-
tension and research.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Bank and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan


﻿- 20 -
decreases or increases, the Bare may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of the Bank and the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (i) under Categories 1 (b) and (2) through (6)
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) under Category 1
(a) prior to the date of the Fund Loan Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 485,000 may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures eligible under said Category before the date of said
Agreement, but after May 1, 1984.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the pro-
visions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Bank has rea-
sonably estimated that the amount of the Loan or the Fund Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Fund: (i) corres-
pondingly reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or the Fund
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, provided, however, that no such reallocation of proceeds
of the Fund Loan shall be made to Categories (1) (b), (3) and
(5); and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures there-
under shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank    shall have   reasonably determined   that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Fund Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement or of the Fund under the Fund Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan and/or the Fund Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,


﻿- 21 -
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (1) to strengthen and
reorganize the Borrower's TZ extension service in the Project
Area by introducing a system whereby village-level extension
agents carry out intensive programs of regularly scheduled farm
visits under the close supervision of, and training by, subject-
matter specialists and by expanding the use of audiovisual aids
and mass media; (2) to improve applied and adaptive research on
agricultural commodities and farming systems at six of the
Borrower's research institutes; (3) to establish strong opera-
tional links between TZ staff and said research institutes to
ensure the transfer to village-level extension agents of techno-
logy for improving crop and livestock production; (4) to build up
a local expertise in agricultural extension and applied research
through in-service and overseas training; and (5) to test and
refine the extension methods developed under the Project before
extending said methods throughout the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Agricultural Extension
1.   Reorganization and expansion of the Borrower's TZ extension
service in the Project Area through: (a) employment of additional
village-level extension agents to work on a full-time basis in
providing technical advice to farmers on a broad range of farming
activities; (b) establishment and operation of county-based teams
of subject-matter specialists to supervise said extension agents
and to provide fortnightly training sessions in specific areas of
expertise; (c) establishment and operation of provincial teams of
subject-matter specialists to assist the deputy director respons-
ible for extension in each provincial TZ office and to coordinate
activities with other agencies of the Borrower providing comple-
mentary services to the Project; (d) establishment and operation
of centralized teams of subject-matter specialists within GDAA's
Extension Department to develop a technical strategy for each
agro-ecological zone in the Project Area and to supervise and
provide technical support to the provincial teams of subject-
matter specialists; (e) monthly training workshops for subject-
matter specialists to improve the transfer of farming technology;
and (f) assignment of separate staff in TZ specifically to handle
administrative matters.


﻿- 23 -
2.   Establishment and operation of an extension information
center (EIC) in Ankara, under the responsibility of GDAA; the
collection and dissemination by EIC of extension information
through: (a) building up a library of information of interest to
extension agents in the Project Area and dissemination of infor-
mation to such agents; (b) preparation and production of audio-
visual aids to be used by village-level extension agents and
subject-matter specialists in the Project Area in their extension
activities; and (c) coordination and dissemination of information
in the Project Area through mass communication methods.
3.   Improvement of communications between research and extension
staff through placement in each of the six research institutes
referred to in Part B.1 of the Project of extension coordinators
from EIC and the TZ extension service; said extension coordi-
nators shall, inter alia, assist in the running of monthly
training workshops for subject-matter specialists and of the
field trials referred to in Part B.2 of the Project.
4.   Recruitment of agricultural engineers, agricultural tech-
cians, staff for the EIC and adequate support staff, the con-
struction of housing units and offices for TZ and EIC, and
provision of vehicles and equipment for Part A.1 through A.3 of
the Project.
Part B:   Applied Research
1.   Strengthening of the capacity of six research institutes
serving the Project Area (Middle Anatolia, Eskisehir, Aegean,
Southeast Anatolia, Mediterranean and Grassland and Animal
Husbandry) to carry out applied and adaptive research on commodi-
ties and farming systems for the development of improved techno-
logy packages for farmers in said Area through (a) recruitment of
additional staff, including, inter alia, agronomist and animal
husbandry specialists, and (b) integration of economists and farm
mangement specialists in the research teams for commodities.
2.   Carrying out by such research institutes, with the assist-
ance of extension coordinators, of an expanded program of field
trials so as to test recommended technological packages and run-
ning monthly training workshops for subject-matter specialists.
3.   Recruitment of additional professional and support staff for
research institutes, construction at the research institutes of
research facilities, housing and facilities required for the


﻿- 24 -
conduct of workshops for subject-matter specialists and equipping
of said facilities; provision of, inter alia, farm equipment and
machinery, laboratory and audiovisual equipment, research and
training materials, and vehicles.
4.   Coordination of research work and field trials, definition
of research programs and priorities, and dissemination of find-
ings by research coordinators appointed to all research centers
serving the Project Area.
Part C:   Monitoring and Evaluation
1.   Establishment and initial operation by TZ of a management
information service within the Project Area to be responsible for
internal monitoring and evaluation, and to report to the Project
Coordinator, including provision of vehicles and office equip-
ment.
2.   Strengthening of the external monitoring and evaluation unit
within GDAA's Department of Technical Cooperation to carry out
studies on the development and improvement of the extension
methods introduced under the Project.
Part D:   Training; Studies
1.   In-service training, including orientation sessions for all
Project staff, and refresher training courses to complement fort-
nightly training sessions for village-level extension agents and
monthly workshops for subject-matter specialists.
2.   Carrying out of aa overseas training program acceptable to
the Bank for selected staff involved in extension, monitoring and
evaluation and research activities under Parts A, B and C of the
Project.
3.   Provision  of  assistance   to  the  Borrower's  ministerial
working groups on the organization of agricultural research and
extension.
4.   Preparation of proposals for extending beyond the Project
Area the extension methods introduced under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1990.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1988
through   August 15, 2000                  2,775,000
On   February 15, 2001                          2,825,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
for the Middle Anatolia Research Institute shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   Invitations  to bid   shall require bidders     to  guarantee
adequate servicing and spare parts for equipment and machinery.
4.   To the extent practicable, vehicles, equipment and machinery
shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement in accordance
with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,


﻿- 28 -
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering      goods  manufactured in
Turkey if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 29 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works, other than the Middle Anatolia
Research Institute, may be procured through local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works contracts for TZ staff housing and offices shall be
made up into packages by county.
2.   Contracts for laboratory equipment and seeds, livestock and
semen for the research program may be awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three quali-
fied suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with procedures set forth in paragraph A.5 of this Schedule and
in Part A of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 1.2 and 3.9
thereof).
3.   Off-the-shelf items of equipment and consumable materials
with values of less than $10,000 equivalent for each contract may
be purchased on the basis of solicitation of at least three price
quotations from local suppliers; provided, however, that the
aggregate expenditure for items so purchased shall not exceed
$300,000 equivalent.
4.   Contracts for furniture shall be packaged as appropriate and
awarded on the basis of at least these price quotations from
local suppliers; provided, however, that the aggregate expendi-
ture for items so purchased shall not exceed $1,500,000 equiva-
lent.
5.   Books and periodicals may be purchased directly from the
publishers or authorized distributors on the basis of negotiated
prices.


﻿- 30 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost in
excess of $200,000 equivalent, and for civil works estimated to
cost in excess of $750,000 equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account


﻿- 31 -
or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Annual Work Program
1.   For each year during Project execution, the Borrower shall
prepare and submit to the Bank and the Fund, for review and
comment, a draft Annual Work Program which shall include the
following:
(a) a detailed description of the work to be performed
during the forthcoming fiscal year commencing each January 1,
including detailed plans and schedules for activities under the
various components of the Project, housing and office construc-
tion, training, recruitment and deployment of staff, vehicles and
equipment requirements;
(b) the budgetary proposal from the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Forestry and Rural Affairs for the corresponding period
setting forth for each Project component:
(i) proposed capital expenditures;
(ii) for the TZ extension service, the EIC, the six
research institutes and the monitoring and evalua-
tion groups, all proposed recurrent expenditures
such as salaries, travel allowances, fuel, repairs
and maintenance, agricultural inputs, together
with a breakdown of pre-development and incre-
mental expenditures;
(iii) a   comparison  of  the  proposed  investment and
recurrent budgets with the budget of the previous
year; and
(iv) a list of proposed expenditures for technical
assistance, studies and training;
(c) a financing plan with detailed projections for each
semester indicating funds required from the Borrower for each
Project component;
(d) the proposed procurement program and procedures to be
applied thereto; and
(e) a detailed Project implementation schedule for the
forthcoming year.


﻿- 33 -
2.   Each draft Annual Work Program shall be supported by the
following information:
(a) a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on
staff recruitment by GDAA, pre-service training and expected
assignments for the project;
(b) details on the proposed training program;
(c) detailed schedule of activities for civil works,
including land acquisition, final designs, bidding and construc-
tion;
(d) details on specific extension activities to be under-
taken in the various provinces and counties in the Project Area
and on specific research programs which will be initiated or
continued at each research institute supported by the Project;
and
(e) details on various extension approaches to be tested in
specific locations (e.g., mass media campaigns, variations in
staff densities, in methods for selecting contact farmers and in
the village approach to provision of extension services).
3.    Each draft Annual Work Program shall contain a detailed
review of items related to Project implementation, in particular,
agricultural inputs and credit in the Project Area required to
support the operations of the extension service, as well as any
other constraints beyond GDAA's control (provisioa of marketing
facilities, infrastructure).


﻿- 34 -
SCHEDULE 6
Bank Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of civil works and office furni-
ture for TZ in the Project Area (excluding Southeast Anatolia)
and of incremental operating costs required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to Categories (1) (b) and (6) in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in foreign
currency equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (7) and
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Bank
Special Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Bank Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Bank Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter, and on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Bank at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Bank Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Bank
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the
Bank Special Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Bank Special Account as of the
date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of the initial deDosit. Except as the Bank may other-
wise agree, each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective
Categories (1) (b) and (6), and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting


﻿- 35 -
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Bank into the Bank Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Bank
Special Account such documents and other evidence as the Bank
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Bank Special Account shall be
made by the Bank (a) when the Bank shall have determined at any
time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, or (b) unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, when the total unwithdrawn amount
of the Loan allocated to Categories 1 (b) and (6) for civil
works, office furniture and incremental operating costs under the
Project, minus the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse
made by the Bank and of any special commitment entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be sooner.
Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to Categories (1) (b) and (6) for
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, be made only after and to the extent the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Bank Special Account as of the date of such notice
have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Bank Special Account (i) was
made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Bank Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Bank
Special Account or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the


﻿- 36 -
Bank an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Bank Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Bank Special Account.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 7
Fund Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan as set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of civil works and furniture for
TZ in Southeast Anatolia and of incremental operating costs
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1)
(a) and (6) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in foreign
currency equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (7) and
to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account and deposited in the
Fund Special Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph
3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Fund Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, promptly
notify the Fund pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement to
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Fund Loan Account and
deposit into the Fund Special Account the initial deposit. There-
after, and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to
the Bank at such intervals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank
shall further so notify the Fund to withdraw from the Fund Loan
Account and deposit into the Fund Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Fund Special Account with
amounts equal to payments made out of the Fund Special Account
for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that the amount
of any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on de-
posit in the Fund Special Account as of the date of such request,
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial
deposit. Except as the Fund may otherwise agree, each such de-
posit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn from the


﻿- 38 -
Fund Loan Account under the respective Categories (1) (a) and (6)
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit into the Fund Special Account after the initial
deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in -respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Fund Special Account
such documents and other evidence as the Bank, on behalf of the
Fund, shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was
made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Fund Special Account shall be
made (a) when the Bank, on behalf of the Fund, shall have deter-
mined at any time that all further withdrawals can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Fund Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, or (b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Fund
Loan allocated to Categories (1) (a) and (6) of the Project,
minus the amount of any special commitment entered into by the
Bank, on behalf and for the account of the Fund, pursuant to
Section 3.07 of this Agreement with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial
deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Fund Loan
allocated to Categories (1) (a) and (6) for the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Bank, on behalf of the Fund, shall
specify by notice to the Borrower and shall, except as otherwise
agreed, be made only after and to the extent the Bank, on behalf
of the Fund, shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Fund Special Account as of the date
of such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Bank, on behalf of the Fund, shall have determined at
any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Fund Special Account (i) was
made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice and unless otherwise agreed,
prior to any further deposit into the Fund Special Account,


﻿- 39 -
deposit into the Fund Special Account or, if the Bank, on behalf
of the Fund, shall so request, refund to the Fund an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Fund Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice and unless
otherwise agreed, refund to the Fund such amount then outstanding
in the Fund Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affix d the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    <     day of /     , 1984.
FOR SECRETARY


