Doimx:t of
The World Bank
Rqmmt N.T-6506-RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 26, 1995
Country Operations Division II
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region






THE RUSSIAN FEDERLATION
PORTFOIIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section A:   INTRODUCTION           1......................................... 
Section B:   INSTITUTIONAL SETTING  ..........                  ........................ 2
Section C:   PROJECT OBJECTIVES  ....................................  3
Section D:   DETALED PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ........                     .................... 3
1. Fund for Project Preparation  ...............................   3
2. Technical Assistance to Strengthen External
Resource Management .................................   4
3. Establishment of a Business Opportunities Bureau
in the Federal Project Finance Center ............         .............. 4
Section E:   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING   .........                   .................... 5
1. Project Costs and Financing Plan . ............................ 5
2. Fund for Project Preparation  .      .............................. 6
3. Technical Assistance to Strengthen External
Resource Management  ...................................   7
4. Establishment of a Business Opportunities Bureau
in the Federal Project Finance Center ............          .............. 7
5. PPF Advance .................................. 7
6. Repayment of Loan Proceeds ...............................   7
Section F:   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IEFLEMENTATION   ..............                               8
1. Project Management and Organization  ...........             .............. 8
2. Expert Services to the Center ...............................   9
3. Implementation Status .................................    9
4. Procurement .....................................                                10
5. Disbursement .................................                                   14
6. Accounts and Auditing .................................   15
7. Monitoring and Evaluation ................................. 15



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS (con't)
APPENDICES
Appendix I      Illustrative List of Subprojects ...........     ..................... 16
Appendix n      Key Project Activities ...... ............................... 17
Appendix Im     Project Implementation Arrangements .......................... 22
Appendix IV     Key Government Functions and Responsibilities When Dealing with the
World Bank .....................................                            24
Appendix V      Agreed Action Plan to Improve Implementation ..................... 25
Appendix VI    Project Center Regulations .      ................................. 26
Appendix VII   Project Center Organizational Chart and Reporting Lines .....       .......... 29
Appendix Vm    Estimated Staffing Plan of Project Center ......................... 31
Appendix IX     Draft 1995 Budget of the Project Center ......................... 32
Appendix X      Terms of Reference for the Business Opportunities Bureau .....      ......... 33
Appendix XI    Summary of Technical Assistance Inputs ......................... 34
Appendix XII   Training Plan  .......................................... 36
Appendix XII   lmplementation Plan . ..................................... 37
Appendix XIV   Supervision Plan  ........................................  45
Appendix XV Procurement Plan .46
Appendix XVI  Monitoring and Performance Indicators ........           .................. 48



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROTECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. INTRODUCTION
1.           After decades of isolation from the world economy, Russia embarked on a complex
program of economic reform in early 1992 that focussed primarily on price and trade liberalization and
massive privatization of state-owned assets. By end-1994, the Government introduced a second stage of
reforms that is designed to stabilize prices and deepen institutional changes in the economy. The success
of this program will depend on implementation of an austere anti-inflation program and a marked
improvement in the efficiency of investments. Externally-financed projects that advance the reform
program, reduce the financing gap and demonstrate improvements in the efficiency of public investments
will contribute significantly to this effort. The identification and preparation of such projects entails
considerable up-front investments for any borrower. For Russia, this task is even more demanding in
view of the size and diversity of the country, its evolving economic and institutional setting, and the lack
of in-depth analyses and policy frameworks in many sectors. Project identification is complicated further
by the lack of institutional capacity to evaluate relative priorities and to match them with appropriate
external financing.
2.           Russia has attracted considerable external resources since 1991, primarily in the form of
grant technical assistance and trade credits. Experience to date with large externally-financed investment
projects has been limited. The Bank is presently the largest source of external finance for public
investment. However, implementation of the $3 billion of approved operations is beginning slowly. The
Government recognizes that its ability to use external resources effectively has been hampered by the lack
of institutional capacity at all stages of the project cycle. It has also been aware that the complexity and
magnitude of its borrowing program from the Bank will require considerably more resources to develop
and prepare than can be expected from grant or PPF resources.
3.           The Government discussed the concept of a portfolio development project with the Bank
during the 1992 Annual Meetings. It was to be implemented by the Russian Agency for International
Cooperation and Development (RAICD), which had been established by Presidential decree in August
1992. The initial concept was for RAICD to play a highly centralized role in managing all forms of
external assistance from all sources. In fact, this role never materialized. RAICD ultimately acquired
responsibility only for humanitarian and technical assistance. Although partial coordination was provided
by the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Interaction with International Financial Institutions
(DIFI) in the Prime Minister's Administration (the Apparat), specialized institutional support for
development and implementation of major investment projects was never identified. This was rectified
with the establishment of the Federal Center for Project Finance and Technical Assistance in April 1994
and by the abolition of RAICD. During the First Annual Country Portfolio Performance Review, held
in September 1994, the Bank and Government agreed that the proposed operation should be revived and
used both to strengthen the Center and to finance preparation of the expanded Bank program. Early in
October, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Management officially requested that the loan be
processed on an acoelerated schedule.



Techxical Amnex
Pare 2                                                            Portfolio Development Proiect
B. INSIITITIONAL SETTING
4.           Until recently, the environment for collaboration with international financial institutions
has been unsettled. First, the role of key core ministries in public investment decisions is undergoing
significant redefinition. In particular, the Ministry of Finance is becoming stronger while the Ministry
of Economy (the former Gosplan) is limiting its involvement to federally-financed investments. At the
same time, sector ministries traditionally lacked a policy voice. Now, they are gradually moving away
from direct involvement in project execution to a greater policy formulation and monitoring role.
5.           More importantly, power is both highly centralized and diffused in the Russian
Government. Authority is shared among the several Deputy Prime Ministers and above. Ministries
typically fall "below the line' of decision-making power, including the Ministries of Finance and
Economy. Although this may change gradually, it has been necessary for the Bank to receive clearance
from very senior levels of Government before proceeding with many tasks, both important and routine.
A special layer of Government administration, known in Russian as the Apparat, assists by processing
these decision memoranda. Nevertheless, the Apparat does not have the authority to resolve critical
differences among ministries, which has delayed implementation of many Bank projects.
6.           Therefore, despite the high degree of centralization of power, there has been no logical
power center that could function with authority as the Bank's working-level counterpart. This has been
complicated by frequent turnover in the talented Government officials who were assigned to the Bank's
portfolio. This has slowed project processing and the build-up of institutional knowledge on the practices
and procedures of the Bank as well as other external sources of finance.
7.           The proposed project will help clarify and strengthen the institutional framework for
relations with external financing agencies. The project is based on new coordination and loan processing
arrangements agreed in substance among all key government actors and with the Bank at negotiations.
These give a clear role at each step of the project cycle to the Project Center, the Ministries of Finance
and Economy, and the Apparat. A summary of these roles is in Appendix IV. A senior-level
Interministerial Commission for International Economic Relations, established by the Russian Government
after the CPPR meeting in September 1994, would provide the framework both for this project and the
collaboration arrangements with the Bank. Its members are key Deputy Prime Ministers, the Chairman
of the Central Bank, and the Ministers of Finance and Economy. The Commission, to be chaired by the
First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Management, will agree on a medium-term borrowing strategy
for financing by external agencies. For the Bank, this discussion will take place initially during the CAS
and at regular intervals thereafter. In the interim, policy advice on Government investment priorities
would be provided to the Bank by a Working Group comprised of mid-level Government managers (from
the Ministries of Finance, Economy, the Apparat, the Project Center and the Central Bank). Based on
documentation prepared by the Project Center in consultation with the Working Group, the
lnterministerial Commission would decide on Bank projects to be funded with resources from the
proposed loan.
8.           The key to the successful functioning of these arrangements is: 1) a consensus-style of
decision-making; and 2) the establishment of a new institution, the Federal Center for Project Finance
and Technical Assistance.
9.           The Federal Centerfor Prujed ffnance and Technical Assiftance. The Bank agrees with
the Government's view that establishment of a new institution is desirable to fill a void in existing
governmental structures and to build an institutional store of knowledge on the practices and procedures



Technkal Annex
Russia: Portfolb DeveloDment Proiect                                                  Pare 3
of external resource institutions. The Center was established in April 1994 by Government ordinance
as a governmental body but with independent legal status. The Prime Minister appoints the Center's
Chairman, who reports to the First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Management. The First Deputy
Prime Minister is also the Chairman of the Interministerial Commission that approves the external
borrowing program of the Government, including from the Bank. Key management positions in the
Center have been filled and staff recruitment, presently underway, is expected to reach 226 positions over
time, of which 146 would be professional. Presently, a total of 60 professional and support staff are in
place. The Center is organized into six departments, including Technical Assistance, Project Finance,
the Business Opportunities Bureau, Information Services, Finance and Administration. Staff from the
technical assistance advisory unit of the European Union, formerly with RAICD, are included in the
Technical Assistance Department. The regulations, organizational chart and reporting lines, estimated
staffing plan and draft 1995 budget of the Center are in Appendices VI-IX. Its role and responsibilities
have been designed with the experience of the RAICD in mind. It will have three primary functions:
coordination, information dissemination, and advisory services.  Specifically, it will: a) match
Government investment priorities with official external financing sources and support the identification
and preparation of externally-assisted projects; b) advise and assist sectoral ministries and implementing
agencies on the practices and procedures of external financing sources and monitor project
implementation; and c) support the development of the local consulting industry and advise Russian
businesses on procurement opportunities in externally-financed projects.
10.          The proposed coordination and loan processing arrangements will facilitate the
Government's ability to carry out and coordinate externally-financed projects. They will also help resolve
many of the institutional issues discussed above that have retarded processing and implementation of Bank
projects. However, experience with Bank lending is limited in Russia, so the arrangements will evolve
as the program develops. At negotiations, it was agreed that they would be reviewed and further refined
during the forthcoming CPPR in September 1995. Initially, delays can be expected throughout the project
cycle. Over time, however, the new arrangements will contribute to strengthening Russian ownership
of its borrowing program.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.          There are three principal project objectives. The first is to provide an assured and
flexible source of funding for preparation of high-priority projects expected to be financed by the Bank.
The second is to strengthen the institutions involved in coordinating and implementing externally-financed
projects, particularly in the areas of project management, procurement, disbursement and project-level
accounting and auditing. This will also aid the implementation of the Bank's present projects and future
pipeline. The third is to develop the local consulting industry and contribute to greater participation by
Russian enterprises in competitive bidding on externally-financed projects.
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
12.          There are three related project components:  a) a Fund for Project Preparation; b)
technical assistance to strengthen external resource coordination and management; and c) establishment
of a Business Opportunities Bureau in the Center.
13.          Fund for Project Preparation. The fund would be used to prepare projects and related
project activities for which Bank financing has been or is expected to be requested during the next three
fiscal years (see Appendix I). Based on the Government's broad priorities for the FY96-98 lending
program, approximately US$25 million will be required in addition to grant financing and PPFs to
support the project pipeline for the next three years. In order to be eligible for financing under this



Techxiel Annex
Pane 4                                                               Portfolio DeveiopDment Proiect
component, a subproject must be mutually agreed to be of high priority in the Government's development
efforts. Individual subprojects are not expected to exceed US$3 million. They would finance the cost
of sector and feasibility studies, project design work and other project preparation activities. A limited
amount of resources (under US$2 million) would be available to support operational start-up costs in
PPIUs, such as fax machines. In addition, a small allocation is available (US$1.5 million) for pilbt
activities related to the preparation of projects.
14.          The Center would be responsible for identifying the most appropriate source of financing
(e.g. grants or loans from various bilateral and multilateral sources as well as local resources) for
activities proposed for this purpose, taking into account the suitability and ready availability of the
resources. In appropriate cases, a mix of grant and loan funds may be recommended, provided that such
arrangements would not unduly delay the schedule of activities.
15.          Technical Assistance to Strengthen External Resource Management. The Center was
established in April 1994 and is still being staffed. In addition, while institutional roles have been
designated under the collaboration arrangements, experience is likely to result in revisions over time.
Consequently, the scope of this component has been designed flexibly to respond to evolving needs.
Initial activities have been tentatively identified that will strengthen capacity in three parts of Government:
the Center, core ministries, and sector ministries and implementing agencies. These are identified in more
detail in Appendix II, Key Project Activities. In summary, they include, inter i:
1) consultant services, training, equipment, management information systems and
possibly, study tours, to strengthen the Center's capacity to coordinate, evaluate and monitor externally-
financed projects as well as to provide advisory services to Russian consultants and businesses;
2) consultant services, equipment, training and possibly, study tours, to strengthen the
capacity of core ministries in external resource management. This is likely to include equipment and
advisory services for the Ministry of Finance to complete work already initiated on a debt management
system, as well as support for the development of procedures and a regulatory framework to introduce
competitive public procurement practices; and
3) consultant services, training and possibly, study tours, to increase the capacity of
PPIUs in critical project-related activities, including project management, procurement and accounting
and auditing.
16.          Establishment of a Business Opportunities Bureau in the Project Center. The activities
of the Business Opportunities Bureau are described in Appendix X. Its primary purpose is to advise
potential exporters and firms on the opportunities and requirements for competing for externally-financed
contracts. The Bureau would develop and manage a data base on firms and enterprises with a potential
interest in bidding. These would be matched with information from the Bank's Public Information
Documents (PIDs) and International Business Opportunities Services (IBOS). Using this research, the
Bureau would target audiences for its business outreach programs, to include business opportunities
seminars and information and marketing programs. A dissemination mechanism would be established
to reach key audiences with information bulletins efficiently, such as through banks specializing in trade
finance for exporters. In addition, business opportunities seminars would be held in key regional
commercial centers. Two such seminars have already been sponsored by the Center, in Moscow and St.
Petersburg. They were successful in apprising businesses and associations of opportunities to bid on Bank
projects, but also revealed a significant need for in-depth follow-up. Consequently, the Bureau would
contract out training programs on Bank procurement for Russian enterprises and consulting firms that
show strong interest in participating in competitive bids. The loan would finance consultant services to



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolio Development Proiect                                                 Pare 5
develop the data base, an information and marketing strategy, and appropriate publications. Support
would also be provided for training programs. Finally, the loan would finance refurbishment of the
Bureau's premises to make it more amenable as a location for business seminars.
E. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
17.          The proposed project would cover a three-year commitment period, from FY96 to the
end of FY98. The total project cost is estimated to be $79.5 million, excluding taxes and duties, with
a foreign exchange cost of $30 million. It is estimated that about 75% of the loan would finance
consultant services, study tours and other training, 15% would finance equipment and 10% would finance
civil works. The proposed loan would finance the entire foreign exchange costs plus some local costs
for civil works (rehabilitation of Center facilities) and design institutes or consulting firms selected
according to Bank guidelines. The Bank is financing local expenditures in view of the expected increase
in capacity of local consultants to bid successfully on project preparation and other activities, which is
a primary development objective of the project. The local cost contribution from the Russian Government
would include support for refurbishment of the premises occupied by the Center (US$7.2 million), office
supplies and equipment (US$2.7 million), counterpart personnel and operating costs of the Center and
line ministries (US$26.6 million) and local consulting firms under the Fund for Project Preparation (US$3
million). Government contributions are summarized in the draft 1995 budget attached at Appendix IX.
No allowance has been made for physical and price contingencies as the project is essentially a line of
credit to finance project preparation activities for which the specific requirements are not known
precisely. At negotiations, the Bank agreed to the Government's request to reduce the loan amount from
US$45 million to US$40 million to avoid the payment of unnecessary commitment charges on
undisbursed loan preparation funds. However, a follow-up project could be prepared if the loan disburses
faster than expected. Below is a summary of project costs and the financing plan.
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Millions)
Local         Foreign        Total Project Costs
% Project
Government                  39.5 0                                    50
World Bank                  10.0           30.0                       50
TOTAL                       49.5           30.0                       100



Techxical Annex
Page 6                                                              Portfolio Deveionment Proiect
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(USS Millions)
Local    Foreign     K      % Foreign
W   Exchange
Fundfor Project Prepauon             13.0    15.0                     54
Subtotal                             13.0    15.0                     54
External Resource Managemnt
Project Center                       27.6    4.5                      13
Implementing Agencies                -        1.0                    100
Core Agencies                        -       2.0                     100
Subtota                              27.6    7.5                      20
Business Oppotuntes Bureau
Refurbishment of Prmises             7.2     3.5                      33
Data Base and Monitoring System      1.7     1.0                      37
Business Outreach Programs           -        1.5                    100
Training Programs                               .5                   100
..........-....
Subtotal                             8.9     7.5   _                  45
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  49.5    30.0                     38
18.          UNDP normally would be a source of grant financing for many of these activities.
However, the organization has limited resources and has assigned these largely to former Soviet republics
with low per capita GDP. Assistance is nevertheless expected through the Support Implementation Group
of the G-7 and the OECD, principally on a management information system, including for technical
assistance coordination. In addition, the EU may provide expert services to the Center for its operations.
19.          Fund for Project Prenaration. The loan amount for the Fund for Project Preparation
(US$25 million) is based on an estimate of what would be needed to prepare the FY96-98 pipeline beyond
what is available from other sources. Cost estimates for project preparation are based on experience
during the past two years in Russia. The initial outlay of resources needed to prepare the project pipeline
in Russia has been comparatively high in view of the size of the country and the need for greater sector
knowledge and experience. A large share of these costs were defrayed over the past two years by grant
financing from bilateral and multilateral agencies. This is expected to decline significantly over the next
few years. While contributing importantly to project preparation needs, these funds will be insufficient
to prepare the Government's large and rapidly expanding borrowing program. Moreover, the ready
availability of flexible resources from the FPP will enable the Government to prepare investment projects



Technia Annex
Russia: Portfolio Development Proiect                                                 Pae 7
promptly and with a broad selection of domestic and intemational expertise. In addition, FPP funds may
be used innovatively to experiment with pilot activities during the project preparation period, enabling
adjustments in project design prior to implementation. However, should grant financing materialize that
is both suitable and readily available for project preparation above that already estimated, or if costs are
less than expected, the freed resources would be reallocated to finance the initial requirements of projects
programmed for FY99.
20.          Technical Assistance to Strengthen External Resource Management. The loan amount
for the component to strengthen external resource management (US$7 million) is based on the estimated
costs for the following subprojects, which were agreed at negotiations. The subproject to build capacity
in the Center (total US$4.0 million) would include: a) a management information system with supporting
software (US$1.5 million); b) office and communications equipment (US$S1.0 million); c) expert services
to the Center on management, procurement, accounting and auditing, disbursement, aid coordination,
quality control, and engineering (US$1.5 million). The subproject to build capacity in sector ministries
and implementing agencies (total US$1 million) is primarily for training programs and a limited amount
of consulting services on project-related activities, principally procurement, accounting and auditing, and
project management. The subproject to strengthen the external resource management capacity of core
agencies has been allocated US$2 million, part of which would support the strengthening of a debt
management system for the Ministry of Finance. Other subprojects will support high-priority institution-
building subprojects that will arise as Russia's external resource management arrangements develop
further. These are likely to include: (a) consulting services to develop procedures and a regulatory
framework for the introduction of competitive bidding practices for public procurement; and (b) training
to improve public investment programming, particularly at regional levels.
21.           Establishment of a Business Opportunities Bureau. For the establishment of the Business
Opportunities Bureau, US$7.5 million has been allocated to support the following subprojects, which were
agreed at negotiations: a) the refurbishment of Center premises which will house the Bureau (US$3.5
million); b) development of a data base on businesses and enterprises with a potential interest in bidding
on externally-financed projects (US$1 million); c) business outreach programs, including appropriate
information and marketing programs (US$1.5 million); and e) training programs on Bank procurement
for interested Russian enterprises and consulting firms (US$1.5 million).
22.           Advance from the Proiect Preparation Facility. The Government requested and has
received an advance from the Project Preparation Facility of US$500,000. It is financing consultant
services (US$400,000) and equipment (US$100,000) to accelerate project start-up activities in the Center
and Business Bureau. At negotiations, it was agreed that the following activities were of highest near-
term priority, for which terms of reference and procurement documentation are being prepared under the
PPF: a) expert services to the Center in the areas of procurement, disbursement, accounting/auditing and
staff planning and development; b) refurbishment of Bureau premises; and c) acquisition of office
equipment for the Center.
23.           Repayment of Loan Proceeds. During negotiations, the Bank noted that while it was a
purely internal matter, the Government may wish to develop repayment procedures pertaining to proceeds
from the loan to create a pool of funds that could be used to finance the preparation of additional
investment projects. The Government noted that it intends to ask FPP beneficiaries (predominantly
Government entities) to refinance the preparation funds advanced under the Portfolio Loan from the
proceeds of loans that would result from Bank-financed projects. In this manner, the FPP would function
and be refinanced much like advances from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).



Techaa A aex
Page 8                                                              Portfolio DeYdoomeft Proiect
F. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMLEMENTATION
Project Management and Organization
24.          The Center would be responsible for overall project coordination and for the collection,
review and evaluation of information regarding project implementation. The sectoral ministries would
be responsible for monitoring the progress of project preparation of sub-projects and would handle all
technical aspects, including the procurement of consultants and equipment and the arrangement of study
tours and training. At negotiations, the Project Implementation Arrangements in Appendix III were
confirmed.
25.          The first component (Fund for Project Preparation) would be managed principally by the
Center in collaboration with other key ministries, particularly the Ministry of Finance. Subproject
proposals under the Fund for Project Preparation must be consistent with the agreed CAS between the
Government and the Bank, as revised at regular intervals. Specific subproject proposals would emerge
from discussions with line ministry staff during Bank sector and/or project identification missions. The
relevant sectoral ministry would then prepare a request for project preparation funds and forward it to
the Center for review. The request would include a description of the proposed studies to be financed,
the proposed selection procedures for any consultants to be engaged, estimated costs, and other
operational details (similar to a PPF request). The Center would prepare documentation on the proposals
on a regular basis and submit them, with a recommendation on the use of FPP funds, to the
Interministerial Commission for decision. Once approved, they would be forwarded to the Bank for
approval, which would be confirmed by telex. The Center would provide administrative assistance when
needed to the sectoral ministries and would maintain records on the status of each sub-project,
documenting the elapsed time between various steps in sub-project processing and the contracting of
consultants. It would also facilitate disbursements by transferring funds from the Special Account to
project accounts, from which payments could be made directly to contractors. This arrangement will help
develop skills in PPIUs while assuring prudent oversight of loan proceeds.
26.           The second component (technical assistance to strengthen external resource management)
would be managed by the Center, except for subprojects to support core ministries, which would be
managed by those ministries. The initial list of subprojects under the second component was agreed at
negotiations. The funds would be allocated over the next two years, to permit some flexibility as external
resource management practices develop further in Government. Proposals to be funded under this
component that are not already identified would generally come from core ministries or the Center itself.
All subproject proposals would be developed in detail, including the same information as required in FPP
applications, and submitted by the Center to the Bank for approval on a case-by-case basis before the
activities are funded from the loan.
27.          The third component (establishment of Business Opportunities Bureau) would be managed
entirely by the Center. The Bureau would be headed by a Director within the Center. The Bureau's
primary purpose is to advise enterprises, manufacturers and consultants on the opportunities and
requirements for participating in competitive bidding. It would advertise tenders to targeted audiences
on externally-financed projects to Russian consulting firms and enterprises, conduct business
opportunities' seminars in Moscow and regional economic centers, and assist interested suppliers and
contractors with bid preparation through training programs. The terms of reference for Bureau activities
(Appendix X) and subprojects to be undertaken by the Bureau were confirmed at negotiations. As with
all other subprojects, these must be developed in detail and submitted to the Bank for approval on a case-
by-case basis before the activities are funded from the loan.



rechnied Annex
Russia: Portfolio Development Proiect                                                 Pae 9
Expert Servces to the Center
28.          Over time, the Center will acquire the capacity to support the identification, preparation,
implementation and evaluation of externally-assisted projects. The proposed project will help accelerate
this process by financing expert advisory services to the Center. The Center will require expert assistance
over the next two-three years to build capacity, particularly in project management, procurement,
disbursement and project-level accounting and auditing. To a certain degree, this can be acquired through
training courses offered by EDI and the Joint Vienna Institute Program, or financed by the UK Know-
How Fund in procurement. In addition, Center staff would be invited to participate in Bank appraisals
to acquire on-the-job experience. The human resource development needs of Center staff, including
training and expert advisory services, will be evaluated with resources from the PPF. These steps are
summarized in Key Project Activities (Appendix II) and the Implementation Plan (XIII).
29.           For more in-depth training and assistance during project implementation, the TA
component will include financing for six staff-years of resident advisors (US$1.5 million), who would
support the Center for short or longer periods of up to two years. The advisors may, inter A: a)
provide advice on project analysis and evaluation; b) advise on development of appropriate procurement
plans for externally-financed projects; c) help develop appropriate procedures to monitor disbursements
or for selection of project auditors; and d) assist in providing advice to PPIUs on procurement,
disbursement and project-level accounting. The functions and estimated cost of these advisors are
summarized in Appendices XI and XII. The procurement of the experts would be done following
Bank/IDA "Guidelines for Selection of Consultants." The terms of reference and letter of invitation,
including the criteria for evaluating proposals, would be submitted to the Bank prior to Board
presentation.
Implementation Status
30.           The successful implementation of the proposed project depends primarily on the broader
dialogue on coordination and implementation arrangements between the Bank and Government. These
matters were the subject of the first CPPR in September 1994. The Agreed Action Plan to Improve
Implementation, adopted by the CPPR, is in Appendix V to the Technical Annex. All of the short-term
actions have been completed on time. The most important of these was the drafting of coordination and
loan processing arrangements, which were discussed and accepted by both sides during negotiations on
the proposed loan and attached to the minutes of negotiations. The first medium-term action will be for
the Government's Interministerial Commission for International Economic Relations to review the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in April 1995. The Project Center's first responsibility is to play a
key role in the preparation of the documentation for the Commission's discussions. With the assistance
of the key core ministries, it will review and make recommendations on the Bank's three-year lending
program in light of Government development objectives and investment priorities. The outcome of the
CAS discussions will lay the basis for implementation of the proposed loan beginning around April 1995.
The Project Center as presently staffed is capable of carrying out this responsibility as well as those
relating to the initial applications for FPP funds. Actual implementation of these subprojects would be
the responsibility of the technical ministries. Activities under the Fund for Project Preparation are
sufficiently independent of those under the component to strengthen the Project Center that both can be
implemented in parallel fashion. However, the Center intends to act quickly to strengthen its ability to
advise and assist technical ministries during the project cycle and to intiate operations of the Business
Opportunities Bureau. During negotiations, the Russian Delegation agreed that the highest priorities for
near-term action were: a) procurement of expert services to the Center in the areas of procurement,
disbursement, accounting/auditing and staff planning and development; b) refurbishment of the premises
of the Business Opportunities Bureau; and c) acquisition of additional office equipment for the Center.



Technical Axxer
Page 10                                                            PortfoLo Development Proiect
Procurement Aragements
31.          Procurement under this project would be the responsibility of the Project Finance
Department of the Center. A procurement supervisor would be hired by the Department to develop and
administer its procurement operations. He/she would be familiar with World Bank and other donors'
rules and procurement guidelines. General training on procedures and contract administration would be
provided for other Department members and those in the Contract Division to support procurement of
computer equipment, systems and communications software, civil works, consulting services and other
technical assistance. The Department staff would implement the World Bank's standard bidding and
procurement documentation for goods, works and services, with needed addenda or supplements, as
approved by the Bank. The procurement supervisor would ensure that the Center conducts solicitations,
bid evaluations, contract award processes and procurement reporting as required by the Bank. Terms
of reference; prequalified vendor and consultant short lists; and bidding, evaluation and contract
documentation would be routed to the Bank, as appropriate, for needed reviews and no-objections. The
Center would include information on its procurement activities in periodic reports to the IMF/World
Bank.
32.          Annex XV (Procurement Plan) summarizes project elements, their approximate funding
requirements and the methodology envisioned for the procurement of each category of inputs.  As
outlined in the following paragraphs, procurement would be implemented in accordance with relevant
World Bank Guidelines and standard bidding documents and contracts, as appropriate. General guidance
on procurement policies and procedures would also be available from IBRD staff. The following table
summarizes the proposed procurement arrangements.



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolio Dewlooment Proioct                                                                                   Pae 11
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPNMEN PROJECT
Summary of Propoged Procurement Arman eena
(USS millions)
Procurement Method 
Projea Eleument                                                    [CB           LCB    Odter        Not Bank 
I. Works                                                                                                                           a  
Rdudbiltaion and facilities upgrding                -4.2                  .P         7.2                  
(4.2)     (.8)         -
2. Goods
Office Supplies, Equipment and                     2.0                   4.5b        2.7
Fumniture                                         (2.0)                 (45)          -
3. Technical Asitn
Technical, Sector and                               -          -        21.5;        3.0
Feasibility Studies, Engineering                                        (15 
and Softwame Designs
Expert Advisory Services                            -          -         2.5'
(2.5)
Training, Seminars, and Study                       -           -        2.5          -             .
Tours                                                                   (2.5)
Busines  Outreach Programs                          -          -            d-
(materiab   production and                                              (1.5)
dissemination)                                                                                       .
4. Operating Costs of Project Center                                   -          -          -          26.6
5. Miscellaneous
Refinancing PPF                                     -           -        0.S          -
TOTALS                                                                 2.0        4.2       33.8        39.5
-20 -42 (33.8)  (0.0)_
V Totals may not add due to rounding
a/ Includes minor maitence conact and purches for small repair (such a windows) uider USS50,000 that would be prcured thugh local
shopping in accordance with the World Bak Procuremt Gsda. Ibis is primarily for the pilot mubproect financed under the Fund for
Project Preparation (US$0.5 million) but also for refeiubismt of the Busis. Bua (US$03 milion).
b/ Includes DC (eprietaxy) computer sytem elmnAs and softwre purchad according to Wordd Bank OdeUda  (USS0.5 million). Also
included  te Internationel Sbopping for purchas under USS300,000 for office equipmn (USS3.5 miUion) and Loa Shopping for off-the-shelf
pumbas  of item mch - fax machins and to compliet Cenler-financed facilities upgrde  including  nall furnishiep (US$0.5 million),
purchsed in aocordance with World Bak Gud.Ua.
c/ Conulting Services (US526.5 million) would be procured in acoorace with World Dauk Ostdemasa: UL  of Coaklaa (1981 edition).
_/ Primarily conulting srvices (US$1.5 million) relating to the preparation of brochure  ad the dWip ad impleametation of makricing and
diae ation strategies, procured in acordanc with World Dank Gd4nir.se of CoJCma_  (1911 edition).
St A Poct Prepation Facility (USS0.5 milion) would finae initl office equipet and cosing srvice to strngthe the capacity of the
Centr. Procureamet for equipment (USS100,000) would be by Local Shopping and for cosulting services (US$400,000) would be in
accodac e with World Dank GsdeUnar: Use of Consulants (19t1 edition).



TechAical Anne
Pse 12                                                              Portfolio Deveooiment Project
a.           Technical Assistance.  The Fund for Project Preparation is expected to finance up to
US$21.5 million of consultancies for technical, sector and feasibility studies related to preparation of
Bank projects. A total of US$4.0 million in consultant services, including US$0.5 million funded under
the PPF, is allocated for bank-financed procurement of professional and technical services to assist in
capacity-building in the Center and core and implementing ministries.  These will largely be expert
services, some of which may be expatriate, in the fields of procurement, disbursement, accounting,
auditing and project management. In addition, it is estimated that up to US$1.5 million will be required
for consulting services relating to business outreach and US$1.5 million for training programs under the
Business Opportunities Bureau. The program is expected to need technical expertise to provide direct
assistance to potential bidders as well as for the design and implementation of training materials, public
information brochures and marketing programs. There may also be a need for expert assistance in
designing effective business opportunities seminars. The use of local consulting firms and personnel
would be encouraged to develop the domestic consulting industry. Bank-financed consulting services
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency, published in August, 1981. The Bank's standard
bidding and contract documentation would be used. Solicitation methods and Terms of Reference for all
consultant assignments, and all procurement documentation and contracts with consulting firms valued
at greater than US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review and approval. Prior Bank review
and approval would also be required for short lists and contracts with individuals that are expected to
exceed US$50,000 each. The number of technical assistance and consulting contracts with firms and/or
individuals and their approximate values is presently being estimated.  Where practicable, technical
assistance, such as systems installation and/or maintenance services would be sought in contracting
packages to improve accountability and reduce costs and administrative burdens.
b.           ICB Procurement.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) purchases would be
conducted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
ICB procedures would be used for all computer systems and equipment purchases expected to exceed
US$300,000 per contract. Of the total of approximately US$6.5 million allocated for the purchase of
information technology, supporting equipment, other office equipment and related furnishings, US$2.0
million or about 30 percent would be procured using ICB procedures. Principal categories for ICB
procurement are personal computers, printers, and related networking and systems equipment. In the
comparison of bids for equipment purchased under ICB, Russian manufacturers would be allowed a
preferential margin of fifteen percent or the existing customs duty that a nonexempt importer would have
to pay, whichever is lower, over the competing price of imports, providing domestic value-added is at
least twenty percent. The number and expected value of ICB contracts is expected to be relatively low
since the equipment to be procured under the loan is limited and the cost of most individual items is
expected to be small. The Bank would review and clear ICB procedures, bidding documents, evaluations
and resulting contracts on an ex-ante basis; and otherwise review and provide "No-Objections", as
provided for in the Guidelines. Standard Bank IT documentation and bidding procedures would be used
for these procurements.
c.           Direct Contracting/Intemnational Shopping. Direct Contracting (DC), as outlined in the
Bank's Guidelines, may be employed in the procurement of some proprietary computer network upgrades
and software. Spare parts for equipment and netware elements may also be appropriate for DC
purchases. Such procurements would be justified and procedures, documentation and prices reviewed
and cleared beforehand by the Bank. It is expected that Direct Contracting would involve less than
US$250,000 each in two separate contracting actions. As required by the Guidelines, all Direct
Contracting documentation, awards and contracting actions would be subject to prior Bank review and
clearance. International Shopping (IS) may be authorized for readily available, off-the-shelf purchases
under US$300,000 per contract. International Shopping would be based on quotations from at least three
suppliers, from at least three different eligible countries, as indicated in the Guidelines. The first two



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolio Develonment Proiect                                              Pae 13
IS actions would be subject to Bank prior review. All others would be conducted on an ex-post basis
during supervision missions or procurement reviews. Total IS purchases would not exceed US$3.5
million and are expected to be primarily for office equipment.
d.           Local Competitive Bidding. Because they would not be attractive to foreign suppliers,
civil works procurements would be carried out using Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), as provided for
in the Bank's Guidelines. Local competitive bidding procedures would be established by the Center and
submitted to the Bank for review. The total value of LCB actions on works are not expected to exceed
US$4.2 million. The number of actions in each category are under review. The first two LCB actions
would be subject to Bank prior review. The remainder would be subject to ex-post Bank review during
supervision missions or during procurement reviews. As the Bank's Country Procurement Assessment
Report has not yet been completed for Russia and the Borrower's local competitive bidding process has
not been approved by the Bank, the Center's LCB procedures and proposed documentation would be
cleared in advance by the Bank to ensure such purchases would be carried out in a manner consistent with
relevant sections of the Guidelines.
e.           Local Shopping. To support the establishment of the Business Opportunities Bureau and
the rapid build-up of operational capacity in the Center, it is expected that the Center would need to
initiate a few small value purchases using Local Shopping (LS) techniques described in the Guidelines.
LS purchases would complement Center-financed office upgrades and are expected to cover contracts
under US$50,000 each. These purchases, estimated at US$0.5 million, would be used for small value
transactions for simple works (cabling, etc.) and readily available, off-the-shelf items, such as fax
machines or small office furnishings. In addition, a small amount of local shopping is expected to be
used for small maintenance contracts and purchases for small repairs (such as window replacements and
insulation), both for the refurbishment of the Business Bureau (US$0.3 million) and for pilot rehabilitation
subprojects financed under the Fund for Project Preparation. (US$0.5 million). Local Shopping would
be carried out by obtaining at least three price quotations from different eligible suppliers. The first two
LS actions would be subject to Bank prior review. The other small value LS purchases would be subject
to ex-post documentation reviews, with payments probably being effected by Special Account and
Statement of Expenditure.
f.           Bank procurement supervision. In summary, ICB, DC and the first two IS, LCB and
LS purchases of goods or works would be subject to prior Bank reviews and "No-Objections", as
provided for in the Guidelines. Procurement of consulting services would be subject to prior Bank
reviews for all TORs, and for procedures, documentation and contracting with firms over US$100,000
and with individuals over US$50,000. Procurements of goods and services would use the Bank's
standard bidding and contracting documents, modified or suppleinented as necessary, with Bank prior
approval(s). This procurement plan would result in the Bank's prior reviews of approximately 80 percent
of total Bank funds committed for materials and equipment. In addition to reviewing TORs, Bank
reviews of contracting actions for expert services under the second and third components would cover
an estimated 80 percent of total Bank funding for technical assistance inputs. Additional details on
procurement can be found in the Procurement Plan in Appendix XV and Supervision Plan in Appendix
XIV.
g.           Procurement approvals and reporing. A procurement supervisor would be engaged by
the Center to assist in the development of procurement plans and establish procurement procedures. The
supervisor would oversee the preparation of documentation and, via consultations and where applicable,
site visits, guide staff of PPIUs with planning, bid packages, solicitations, bid evaluations and reports,
contracting and the Center's periodic procurement implementation reporting requirements.  The
procurement supervisor would also help coordinate documentation flows needed to secure the World
Bank's clearances and "no-objections" on consultants' TORs and equipment packages needing prior Bank



Techaka Axass
Pie 14                                                             Portfoio De,doament iroiet
review. In addition, Bank staff would monitor procurement activities, contract administration and project
record keeping during periodic supervision missions.
Disbursements
33.          The loan is expected to be fully disbursed over 4 years, closing on December 31, 1998.
The Bank would finance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services; (ii) 100% of expenditures for
overseas study tours and other training; (iii) for equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures for direct
imports, 100% of local ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items and 70% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally; and (iv) for civil works, 100% foreign expenditures and 70% of local
expenditures. The following table gives the estimated project disbursement schedule.
ESTIMATED PROJECT DISBUJRSEMEN SCHDULE
Disbursement over 45 months (lJS$ millions)
EY9        EY9          EY97        EY9       EY9      Tot4
(4/95 -   (7/95-6/96)   (7/96-6/97)    (7/97-6/98)   (7/98-
6/95)                                           12/98)
Semester *      I      2       3    4    5        6    7        8      X 
Project Component
.:a...   .S. y  ....Li..E...
I. Fund for Projeti
Preparation
Annual              1.0    3.0    5.0  6.0   5.0   4.0   1.0         0
Cumulative          1.0    4.0   9.0   15.0 20.0   24.0  25.0   25.0   2. 0
H. External Resource
fanagement
Annual              1.0    1.5   2.0  .75   .75    .75   .75         0
Cumulative          1.0    2.5   4.5  5.25  6.0   6.75   7.5    7.5          7.-
m. Business
Opportunities
Bureau
Annual              1.5    2.5   1.0   1.0  .75    .50   .25         0
Cumulative          1.5    4.0   5.0   6.0  6.75    7.25  7.50   7.50
TOTAL



Technial Anner
Russi: Portfolio Development Proiect                                               Page 15
Disbursements would be made as follows:
Category                  Amounts Allocated    Percentage of Expenditures to be financed
a. Civil Works              US$5.0 million     100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of
local expenditures
b. Goods, including         US$6.5 million     100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
office equipment and                           local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 70%
furniture                                      of local expenditures for other goods
procured locally
c. Technical Assistance,    US$28 million      100%
Training and Study Tours
d. Repayment of Project
Preparation Facility        USS0.5 million
US$40.0 million
34.      To facilitate disbursement a Special Account (SA) to be maintained in US dollars with a
maximum authorized allocation of US$3.0 million would be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank. The selection criteria for the bank holding the special account will be reviewed by the Bank.
Applications for replenishment of the SA will be submitted on a monthly basis. The Center will be
responsible for collecting all the necessary documentation and for monitoring the preparation of
applications for payments.
35.      Disbursement will be fully documented except that expenditures related to (i) training, study
tours and contracts of goods valued less than US$100,000 and (ii) contracts of civil works valued less
than US$50,000 would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting the SOEs would be retained at the Center or at the implementing agency, as appropriate, and
made available for review by Bank supervision missions and auditors.
Auditing
36.      All project accounts (including the SA and the use of SOEs) will be subject to an annual audit
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report will be submitted within six
months of the end of the Government's fiscal year to the Bank by the Center.
Monitoring and Evaluation
37.      The Center would be responsible for monitoring the project and would collect, review and
evaluate information regarding individual subprojects. The sectoral implementing agencies would be
responsible for monitoring the progress of individual subprojects. The Center would report to the Bank
biannually on project implementation according to an agreed format. The Implementation Plan includes
a Mid-Term Review in February 1996.



Techni Aauex
PRe 16                                                                Portfolio DevdoDment Proet
Appendix I
THIE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX I. ILLUSTRATIVE LIST OF SUBPROJECTS
For each project component below, the Bank will approve subprojects on a case-by-case
basis according to the procedures outlined in Appendix Ill.
a)            Fund for Project Prepartion .......................... US$25 million
The Bank has identified the following key areas for future lending projects. Pre-identification, and
in some cases, preparation work has commenced in each area.
*           Social Expenditures
*           Critical Medical Equipment
*           Social Asset Divestiture
*           Community Social Infrastructure
*           Health Reform
*           Agricultural Reform
*           Regional Agricultural Development
*           Agricultural Research
*           Education
*           Ports
*           Water and Sewerage
*           Power Sector
b)            Strengthening External Resource Mauagement .....       ........ US$7.0 million
*           Capacity-building in Project Center ...................... US$4.0
of which:
(i) management information system  ......     ............ US$1.5
(ii) office and communications equipment .....   .......... US$1.0
(iii) expert services . ............................. US$1.5
*           Capacity-building in implementing agencies  .....   ........... US$1.0
*           Debt management system for MOF and .......        ............ US$2.0
capacity-building in core agencies
c)            Business Opportunities Bureau .........      ............... US$7.5 million
- *    .    ........Refurbishment of Bureau premises ...                   US$3.5
*      .    .........Data base on potential bidders ...                    US$1.0
*      .    .........Business outreach programs ...                        US$1.5
*   ..........Training programs ...                                        US$1.5



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolio De,doument Proiect                                                          Pate 17
Appendix 11
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDEX H. PROJECTED KEY PROJECT ACTIVIS
PROJECT ACTIVITY             BORROWER'S OBJECTIVE                BENCHMARKS AND
AND ACTIONS                      TIMETABLES
Fund for Project Preparation    Obiective: To prepare a sound    0 Prepare format for
(FPP)                           pipeline of investment projects     applications from FPP by
suitable for external financing that  March 1995 to permit
advance GOR economic reform        processing of first subprojects
and public investment priorities.  by project effectiveness
Actions: Identification and      * Establish disbursements and
preparation of projects satisfactory  accounting procedures by end
for Bank financing in line with    of March to transfer funds
CAS.                               from Special Accounts to
project accounts held by line
Responsible Agencies: Project       ministries.
Center and Technical ministries.
* In cooperation with technical
ministries, MoF, and Bank,
prepare and approve initial
subproject applications
(March - April 1995)
* Using first subprojects as
examples, hold workshop for
all relevant technical
ministries on FPP processes
and procedures (May-June
1995)
* Review progress with
implementation during second
annual CPPR (Sept 1995)
* Prepare formal evaluation of
results to date for Mid-Term
Review (Feb 1996)
* Complete disbursements (est.
l______________________________     1997-1998)



Technical AAm
Pae 18                                                                    Portfolio Development Proiect
PROJECT ACTIVITY             BORROWER'S OBJEC-TIVE              BENCHMARKS AND
AND ACTIONS                     TIMETABLES
Capacity-building in Project    Obiective: To strengthen GOR    0 Prepare TORs and
Center                          ownership and development of       procurement documents for
Bank program  and to improve       expert services, (including
GOR ability to mobilize,           staff planning and
coordinate and utilize external    development, procurement
resources in support of economic   and disbursement) and for
reforms.                           office equipment by end-
January 1995
Actions: Establishment and
development of Federal Center   0 Arrange for staff training in
for Project Fmance as key          disbursement,
institution within Govemment on    accounting/auditing, project
utilization of external resources  management and procurement
for financing public investment    through EDI (Moscow and
projects                           Washington) - (Jan - Dec
1995).
Responsible Asencv: Project
Center                          * Select expert advisors for
Center in procurement,
disbursement and
accounting/auditing (by April
1995). Initiate on-the-job
training.
* Implement staff development
proposals prepared by
consultants in line with work
program requirements
(beginning June 1995)
* Undertake study visits to
Bank, EBRD, IFC to deepen
knowledge of IFI procedures
and pmctices (June 1995 -
June 1996)
* Develop and maintain data
base to monitor projects
financed by extemal sources
and as resource on local
consulting industry (beginning
June 1995).



Technical Anner
Russia: Portfolio Develoomeot Proiect                                                        Page 19
PROJECT ACTIVITY             BORROWER'S OBJECTIVE               BENCHMARKS AND
AND ACTIONS                      TIMETABLES
Capacity-building in            Objectives: (1) To increase     * Upon establishment of new
Implementing Agencies           management skills of               PPIU, Project Center to
implementing agencies in project   arrange and finance training
identification, prepartion,        for key staff in procurement,
implementation and evaluation;     disbursement, and project
and (2) to develop local           management through EDI or
consulting industry for specific   local institutions (May 1995 -
tasks.                             June 1998). Center to follow
up with advisory services as
Actions: In line with CPPR         needed, beginning June 1995.
recommendations, establish PPIUs
early in project cycle. Build   * Implementing agencies, in
capacity for management of         consultation with Bank
extemally financed projects while  counterparts, to develop a
selectively contracting out        Project Implementation Plan
services that can be handled by    (PIP) for all projects proposed
consultants (such as procurement   for Bank financing. By end -
or design work). Rely              1995, Project Center to begin
increasingly on Project Center for  assisting agencies develop
information and advice on IFI      PIPs through seminars,
practices and procedures and on    advisory services, and by
local and international consultants.    disseminating the lessons of
experience.
* During project preparation,
other measures to build
capacity in the implementing
agency may be recommended
by GOR and approved by the
Bank using funds from the
FPP. These would be
decided on a case-by-case
basis (May 1995 - April
1998)



Technia Axner
Page 20                                                                   Portfolio Development Project
PROJECT ACTIVITY             BORROWER'S OBJECnVE                BENCHMARKS AND
AND ACTIONS                     TIMETABLES
Capacity Building in Core       Objectives: (1) To improve ability   0 Prior to completion of
Agencies                       to formulate borrowing limits and   existing IDF grant for MoF
to manage external liabilities; and  debt management system,
(2) To increase the efficiency of  MoF to prepare subproject
public investments.                proposal outlining remaining
equipment and advisory
Actions: (1) Develop debt          service needs (Jan 1996).
management capacity in MoF; (2)    Tender bids and implement
Upon completion of study on        subproject (March 1996 -
public procurement policy by       December 1997).
MoE, develop appropriate
procedures and regulatory       * Upon completion of
capacity to introduce and manage   procurement study, MoE to
state procurement by competitive   prepare subproject proposal
bidding; and (3) improve ability   outlining expert services
of MoE to identify and plan        required to revise federal
federal investment programs.       procurement practices and to
introduce them in a phased
Responsible Aeencies: Ministry of  manner (May-June 1995).
Finance (MoF), Ministry of         Tender bids and implement
Economy (MoE)                      subproject (Sept 1995 - June
1998).
* Based on consultations
resulting from Bank-prepared
ESW on GOR Investment
Policy, MoE to prepare
subproject proposal to
strengthen the capacity of
government agencies for
investment planning and
programming, particularly at
subnational levels (March-
May 1995). Tender bids and
implement subproject (July
1995 - Dec 1996).



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolio Development Proiect                                                       Pape 21
PROJECT ACTIVITY             BORROWER'S OBJECTIVE              BENCHMARKS AND
AND ACTIONS                     TIMETABLES
Establishment of a Business    Obiectives: To increase market   0 Prepare TORs and
Opportunities Bureau           practices and efficiency in Russia  procurement documents to
by exposing domestic firms to      develop staff resources and
international competitive bidding  refurbish Bureau premises
on externally-financed projects.   (during PPF Jan-March 1995)
Actions: Establish Business     0 Renovation of Bureau
Opportunities Bureau to advise     premises (May-Sept. 1995)
potential exporters and firms on
the opportunities and requirements  * Prepare TORs and letters of
for participating in international  invitation for expert services
tenders.                          to design a data management
system to match Russian
Responsible Agencies: Project      Companies with opportunities
Center                             under IFI-financed projects
(May 1995). Tender bids and
implement subproject (June
1995-May 1996).
0 Prepare TORs and letters of
invitation for expert services
to: (1) Develop business
outreach programs for
Russian firms (including
information brochures,
seminar formats and
dissemination and marketing
strategies); and (2) Develop
formal and on-the-job training
strategies in international
trade and procurement (May
1995). Tender bids and
implement subprojects (June
1995 - June 1998).



Techackd Aner
Pate 22                                                                            Portfolio Development Proiect
Appendix III
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
PROJECT PROCESS                              IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILMES
Activity                     Line or Core Minstry                      Project Center
1. Development of CAS/lending                    N/A                   Plays coordinating and advisory role
program                                                             (technical support) in interagency
development of lending program.
2. Subproject identification and  In consultation with the Bank, develops   Facilites and advises as needed on
approval                      subproject concept and plan of work.    relevant Bank and GOR guidelines and
procedures. Interministerial Conmision
(of GOR) approves inclusion of project
in pipeline.
3. Prepartion of FPP or          Prepares request in consultation with  Upon receipt of request:
Subproject Proposal           the Bank, to include:
(a) a description of the studies and  (a) reviews availability of grant
work to be carried out in            financing for proposed activities. If
connection with the proposed         none suitable and readily available,
subproject; including a time         determines allocation required from
schedule and statement of            loan.
purposes, objectives and expected
benefits;
(b) the proposed selection procedures,  (b) Approval is sent to Bank by telex,
qualifications, terms of reference   with request to allocate funds to
and duration of service for any      subproject account. Bank confirms
consultants to be engaged;           its approval and assigns subproject
account number.
(c) a description of the role of the
department or agency responsible   (c) For TA activities managed by
for the execution of the proposed    Project Center, proposals are
subproject and counterpart staff, if  developed by the Center and
any, to be supplied;                 approved by the Bank in like
manner.
(d) a general description of the
arrangements to be made for the
provision of the office space,
secretariat facilities, transportation
and other operational facilities
required for the subproject to
proceed efficiently; and
(e) estimated foreign and local costs
of the proposed subproject broken
down by major items and showing
an estimnated disbursement
schedule.



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolio Develonment Pro*ect                                                                   Pare 23
PROJECT PROCESS                               IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Activity                     Line or Core Ministry                      Project Center
4. Implementation of Subproject
- Procurement
(a) For each subproject activity,     (a) Advises as needed on Bank
prepares procurement documents        Procurement guidelines.
for Bank review and no objection.
Prepares short lists and issues
letters of invitation.
(b) Evaluates proposals and, after    (b) Receives signed copies of contracts
consultation with the Bank, informs   and other relevant procurement
unsuccessful bidders/consulting       documents and maintains records on
firms, negotiates and signs           projected expenditures for each
contracts.                            subproject.
- Disbursement                 Submits necessary documents to the
Center to request transfer of funds   Manages disbursements for Subproject
equal to 60 days of eligible          expenditures under a Special Account,
expenditures. Ministry (PPIU) makes    opened and maintained by the Center.
payments directly to contrctors out of   Replenishes Project Accounts every 60
its Project Account.                  days on the basis of a request by
Ministry for 60 days of eligible
expenditures. Reconciles the Special
Account for all Subprojects and submits
applications to the Bank for
replenishment on a monthly basis or
whenever the account is drawn down by
about 50%. Receives quarterly reports
from line agencies based on accounting
records of disbursements effected under
each subproject. Advises PPIUs as
needed on Bank disbursement guidelines.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation
- Monitoring                  Supervises work of consultants;        Monitors elapsed time for completion of
arranges any study tours or tring;    Subprojects; evaluates overall project
monitors propess in completion of     performance and reports bi-annually to
subproject activities; evaluates results    Bank on implemenation according to an
in collaboration with Bank.           agreed format.
Prepares audit plan, appoints independent
- Auditing                    Submits relevant documents to Project   auditors acceptable to the Bank and
Center for audit purposes.            ensures subrnission of annual audit report
to the Bank on a timely basis.



Appendix IV
APPENDIX IV. Overview of Key Govermment Functions and Responsibilities
When Dealing with the World Bank
|   Overall Strategy and    [   Project Identifcation    |    Project Preparation    |   Negotiations/SW|ingl         Implementation/
__________j             Program                                                                           Effectiveness                Evaluation
Ministry of    Formulates State priorities    Reviews projects through  Is kept advised by Center of  Participates in Negotiations   Is kept advised by Center
Economy        and Federal progamms        participation in            key developments
Interministerial Commission
(IC) discussions
Ministry of    Jointly with MinEcon        Reviews projects through    Is kept advised by Center of  Participates in Negotiations;  Is kept advised by Center.
Finance        develops foreign lending    participation in IC         key developments            assists in further processing   Monitors, disbursements,
programs and borrowing     discussions                                             of Legal Agreements        repayments
limits
Federal        Assists Ministries of       Reviews new projects and    Assists Technical Ministry    Participates in Negotiations;   Monitors project
Project Center  Economy and Finance and    submits to IC for           through PDL preparation    assists in further processing   implementation; advises
Apparat in development of    consideration and inclusion    funds. Advises Technical    of Legal Agreements    Ministries of Economy and
investment (lending)       in World Bank program.      Ministry during preparation                             Finance and Apparat of
program. Advises as to     Assists Technical Ministry    phase.                                                issues; assists in project
suitability of external    as necessary to further                                                             evaluation and in preparation
financing and potential    develop concept                                                                     of Project Completion
sources, e.g. Bank                                                                                             Reporti
Government    Organizes formal             Reviews projects through    Is kept advised by Center of  Organizes and participates    Is kept informed by Center;
Apparat        discussions of Inter-       participation in IC         key developments           in negotiations; organizes  presents project completion
(DIFI)         Ministerial Commission to    discussions                                            approval of negotiated     reports to Inter-Ministerial
review Bank Assistance                                                             documents; assists in further  Commission
Strategy and Program                                                               processing of Legal
Agreements
Technical      Submits investment          Submits project concepts to   Prepares project. Seeks   Participates in Negotiations,  Implements projects, prepares
Ministry       priorities to Ministries of  Center for review and      preparation funds from      assists in processing of legal  draft Project Completion
Economy and Finance and    consideration to include in    Center                   documents                   Report
potential projects to Center   World Bank Program
for review and consideration
to include in World Bank
Program                                                                                                                                   l
Ministry of                                                                                        Participates in Negotiations,
Justice                                                                                            prepares and signs Legal
Opinions
24



Technical Annex
Russia: PortfoLio Deyclopment Proiect                                               Pare 25
Appendix V
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX V. AGREED ACTION PLAN TO IMROVE IMLEMENTATION
1.  Short Term Actions - ALL OF THE FOLLOWING ARE COMPLETED:
*   Establishment of a permanent Working Group of the Inter-ministerial Commission which is
to meet regularly with the Resident Mission and which will have primary responsibility for
managing day-to-day coordination between the Government and the Bank (October, 1994).
*   Establishment of a Task Force for working out standard coordination procedures and
processing with regard to World Bank loans, to review the procedures, decision points, and
responsible decision makers for key steps in the coordination process. The task force will
present its findings by end-1994.
*   Strengthening of the newly-created Project Finance Center. Resume processing (during
November 1994) of the Portfolio Development Loan to support project preparation and
implementation assistance activities by the Project Center.
*   Designate a ministry to coordinate strengthening of public procurement (October, 1994) and
to manage a grant for the preparation of a Procurement Development Strategy (November,
1994).
=   Hold Business Opportunities Seminars to advise Russian suppliers on opportunities for bidding
on Bank-financed contracts in Russia and other countries (November, 1994).
2.   Medium Terrn Actions
*   Review of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) by the Inter-ministerial Commission on
cooperation with International Financial Institutions and the G-7 (February-March, 1995).
* Increase the involvement of the Government in the project identification process by developing
a proposed list of priority projects for the next CAS discussions (February-March, 1995).
*   Develop guidelines by the Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Finance for review of project
conditionality, sectoral allocation of lending and a more systematic approach to cost recovery,
as input into to next discussion of the CAS (February-March 1995).
*   Prepare objective criteria by the Government to guide the selection of beneficiaries (e.g.
regions) which will participate in investment projects (by mid-1995).
*   Complete the Procurement Development Strategy study and agree on an action plan for
implementation of the recommendations (March, 1995).
*   Hold Country Portfolio Performance Review annually (September, 1995).



Technical Annex
Paze 26                                                             Portfolio Develonment Proiect
Appendix VI
THE RUSSIUN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX VI. THE RUSSLAN FEDERAL CENTER FOR PROJECT FINANCE
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
REGULATIONS
1.   The Russian Federal Center for Project Finance and Technical Assistance (hereinafter namned the
Center) is established by the Govermment's Ordinance No 277 of 04.04.1994 "Organization of Work with
Foreign Investments and Technical Help".
2.  In its activity the Center is guided by the Constitution and laws of the Russian Federation, decrees
and ordinances of the President, decrees and ordinances of the Federal Government, decisions of the
Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation and the present Regulations.
3.   The Main objectives of the Center are:
* participation in implementing state policy in the sphere of international investment and lending
collaboration, attracting and utilizing of loans and other sources of foreign financial aid for the
benefit of economic development of the Russian Federation;
* performing complex analyses of projects proposed by the Russian side to attract foreign
investments;
* monitoring, expertise and consulting within the framework of project realization;
= coordination of the work on attracting and using foreign consulting and technical assistance,
provided for Russian enterprises and institutions;
*  elaboration of proposals and programs of the Russian side on investment-loan cooperation with
foreign countries and international financial organizations;
* elaboration of analytical materials on the issues of international investment and loan cooperation;
*  stimulation of scientific research in the sphere of attracting foreign investments;
* facilitation of the activity of the Bureau for the Use of Consulting and Technical Assistance of
the European Union.
4. In accordance with its objectives the Center performs the following tasks:
* annually elaborates the portfolio of investment projects which have passed the preappraisal
procedures and expertise for being submitted by the Russian Federation to international financial
organizations;
* ensures the reception of applications from enterprises and organizations for project finance;



Techniea Annex
Russia: Portfolio Devieogaeot Project                                                      Pare 27
*  establishes procedures for presenting to the Center applications, information, reports, financial
statements, and other materials necessary for project implementation, analysis and monitoring;
*  organizes the completion and standardization of investment projects prepared by Russian
institutions for submission to international financial organizations;
*  coordinates the preappraisal procedures and expertise with the sector ministries of the investment
projects, prepared for presenting to the Interministerial Commission on cooperation with
international financial and economic organizations and 'G-7" Group.
*  assists Russian enterprises and organizations in preparing investment projects and conducting
negotiations;
*  organizes training to support project development and implemention;
*  renders assistance in certifying goods and services of Russian enterprises to expand their
participation in tenders, organized by international financial organizations in Russia and foreign
countries;
* monitors implementation of the projects approved for external financing, and their evaluation;
*  organizes the work to increase the efficiency of the funds provided by technical aid by
international financial organizations, governmental and non-governmental organizations of foreign
countries, including submitting the applications for assistance;
*  promotes the development of consulting, expertise, insurance, financial and other institutions
essential for effective application of foreign loans and technical assistance;
*  develops drafts of normative acts and instructions dealing with attraction of foreign investments
for project finance;
*  renders methodological and consultant assistance in developing free economic zones;
*  handles inquiries from Federal executive bodies, executive authorities of the subjects of the
Russian Federation, organizations, enterprises, and international financial organizations on issues
within the Center's competence;
*  participates in negotiations, conducts business correspondence and exchanges information on
issues of international investment and credit collaboration;
*  delegates the employees of the Center and subcontractors to business trips abroad, renders visa
support, invites and hosts in the Russian Federation foreign missions, groups and individual
representatives;
*  performs consulting services, publishing, training and other activities, not in contradiction to
present legislation;
*  in order to save budget sources the Center uses the funds received from legal activities for
technical and information facilities of the Center;



Technical Axxer
P4e 28                                                                Portfolio Develooment Proiect
* helps with other issues connected with the establishment and carrying out of the Russian Federal
program of external loans.
5.     The Center is a legal entity, has the seal with the picture of the state emblem of the Russian
Federation and its name.
6.     The Center has its checking, hard currency and other accounts in banking institutions.
7.     The Center is headed by the Chairman, appointed by the Government of the Russian Federation
and introduced by the Minister of Economy of the Russian Federation.
8.    The Chairman of the Center:
* manages the work of the Center;
* bears personal responsibility for fulfilling the tasks and functions delegated to the Center;
* appoints and dismisses the employees of the Center, distributes the responsibilities within the
staff;
*  approves the staff schedule and salary fund;
* is authorized to act on behalf of the Center and manage its assets;
* introduces proposals on changes and amendments to the present Regulations for their ratification
in the established order;
9.     The expenses for maintaining the Center are covered by state budget funds of the Russian
Federation, as well as by the income from the allowed activities.
10.   Location of the Center: the city of Moscow



I    HA I1 4I
f~~~fI
P                                          _~~PL
I  4-
fr   [i  ~ ~ ~ i ~~E
E3   ED~~~~



Appendix VIE
Reporting Lines for Center for Project Finaince and Technical Assistance
Cowrdinatin Chart Legend
1. Nominalts Chairman
Prime Minister
2. Approves Regulaions of the Center,
gets th Chairman's reports
First             2                                                                                 3. Manages Commission, approves its
Dqwjty            I            |                                     Ministry of Economy                decisns
Printe Minisler                    l
Russian Federal Centre                                                4. Prepares proposals on projects
ror Projet Fiance and
>1  _   Teehnkal Asisht nces                                          5. Provides Center's civities; schedules
Intetrminiesi                                               ;amstt rfince of the Center; derines
Comniksw                                                                                                  economic priorkies during the work
Minltty of Finance                wih projects
6. Coordieates federal budget and lending
DlIlWI                                                                                                 program
7. Fowards thew apictions for projett
_rmunce; ca ries out project pre-appraisal.
consults applicants
Lin Minities                              C                                   RegioniW
Aitistration                B3. Ensures the work of Commission.
prepares the Government decrees
* Russian Federal Center for Project Finance and
FAenrpria C      _"nies                                                 Tednical Aissance is an independent legal
entity and is not included into the stnacture of
Government Apparat and Ministry of Econony.
lhe Center is headed by a Chairman nominated
by the decree of the Russian Govemnent.
30



Technical Annex
Russi: PortfoLio Dedooment PMject                                                       Paie 31
Appendix VIIH
TME RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX Vm. ESTIMATED STAFFING PLAN FOR
RUSSIAN FEDERAL CENTER FOR PROJECT FINANCE
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Professional Staff    Sunort Staff
Chairman's Office
- Counselors Team                                   5
- Office Manager                                    1                   2
First Deputy Chairman's Office                             2                   2
- Organizational Division                           2                   4
- Protocol Group                                    -                   5
Technical Assistance Director
- Multilateral Tech. Assistance Department          7
- Bilateral Tech. Assistance Departnent            13
Project Finance Director
- IFD Department                                    9
- Investment Department                            11
- Project Coordination Department                   4
- Dept. for Project Preparation                    11                   3
- Project Examination and Assessment Dept.         20                   5
- Department of Business Training                   4                   1
- Department for Project Identification             6                   2
Business Opportunities Bureau                             22                   7
- Public Relations Department                       4                   1
- Personnel Management                              3                   1
- Legal Services                                    3                   2
Information Services Department                             8                  6
Finance Director/Administration Director
- Accounting and Cost Center                        5
- Contract Division                                 6
- Office Support Department                         -                  12
- Building Maintenance                                                 18
- Building Security                                 -                   9
TOTALS                                                    146                 80   =226



Appendix IX
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT LOAN
APPENDIX IX. RUSSIAN FEDERAL CENTER FOR PROJECT FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROVISIONAL BUDGET FOR 195 (IN RUBLES AND US DOLLARS)
1995 Quarters (Millions of Rubles)                              1995 Quarters (Thousands of US Dollars)
Item    Expenditure Description                  I         n         m            IV          Total                 I          HE m                 IV       Total
I     Staff Salaries                          1,415    2,695       3,032        3,369        10,511              472         89S       1,011      1,123      3,504 -
2     Contribution to Pension                  396       755         849          943         2,943               132         252        283        314        911
3     Mand. Medical Insurance                   51        97          109         121           378                17          32         36         40        126 -
4     Social Insurance                           76      146          164         182           568                25          49         55         61        189
5     Employment Fund                           31        59          67           74           231                10          20         22         25         77       -#:.
6     Transporg Tax                              14       27           30          34            105                5           9         10         I1         35
7     Education Tax                              14       27          30           34           105                 5           9         10         I 1        35
a     Business Travel Allow.                   230       433         493          548          1,709               77         146        164        183        570
9     Operating and Maintenance                 319      365         411          456          1,551              106         122        137        152        517
10     Aquistion and Equipment                3,500       300       1,350       2,500          8,150            1,167         267        450        833       2,717
II     Building Reconstruction Costs          3,500    4,000         6750       7,500         21,750            1,167       1,333      2,250      2,500       7,250       ;       43i      ;;
12    Miscellaneous Expenses                    337      442          497         553          1,379              129         147         166       184        626                 3 3 l
Totals                                 9,933    9,851       13,782       16,314        49,880            3,311       3,234       4,594      5,438     16,627        :         a
Budget by Functional Category
Operating Coats                        2,933    5,051        5,632       6,314         19,930              978       1,684       1,894     2,105      6,660                  40%
Equipment Purchases                    3,500       800       1,350       2,500          3,150            1,167         267        450        833      2,717
Building Reconstruction Costa          3,500    4,000        6,750       7,500         21,750            1,167       1,333      2,250      2,500      7,250                 44%.
Totals                                 9,933    9,851       13,7S2       16,314        49,880            3,311 3,311  3,284      4,594      5,438     16,627                100%
32



Technical Anner
Russia: Portfo;o Develonment Prooect                                                  Pate 33
Appendix X
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX X. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE RUSSIAN FEDERAL
CENTER FOR PROJECT FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES BUREAU
.       IThe Govermment of the Russian Federation is in the process of setting up the above Center and
one area of concern to be addressed by the Center is that Russian Enterprises with the capability to
export are currently either unaware of the mechanisms to access their appropriate markets or are
hindered by the inability to comply with the quality requirements of these opportunities. It is
therefore envisaged that provision be made, from the World Bank Loan for the above Center, to
assist such enterprises in overcoming the aforementioned problems.
2.      To accommodate this aim approximately 4 million US dollars have been set aside for the
provision of Technical Assistance to the Center's Business Opportunities Bureau. The Bureau will
require assistance to fulfill the following tasks:
* Development of a system to assist in the matching of Russian companies with export capability
to Bank or other IFI (international Financial Institution) financed projects. The system shall
be fully translated to the Russian language and shall include access to information from the
IBOS (International Business Opportunities Services) database and/or PIDs (Project Information
Documents) together with other appropriate data sources.
* Targeting of Russian companies, with reasonable quality manufacturing capability, for training
in advanced manufacturing techniques and Quality Management, with a system to track their
training and successful application for quality accreditation to international & Russian standards.
 Creation of the systems necessary to produce information brochures on business opportunities
targeting exporters in specific subsectors of the economy.
* A system to disseminate Bank (and other EFI) business opportunities to branch offices of
commercial banks (Russian and foreign banks) throughout the country, whereby the latter could
offer to advise their customers of applicable business opportunities.
* Preparation and delivery of business seminars to different sections of the business community
and foreign trade organizations. The latter being selected after review of available and planned
projects to be financed under the Bank (or other IFI's) within the next three years.
* Preparation and delivery of business seminars to Service organizations and business' such as
commercial banks, consulting firms and foreign trade organizations offering consulting services.
* Provision of formal and on-the-job training in the field of international trade and procurement
to enterprises and foreign trade organizations. This would be done in order to enhance the
quality and efficiency of implementation of the Bank's lending program in Russia.



Techxica Axe
Pate 34                                                             PortfoL;o Deveionment Proiect
Appendix XI
THE RUSSIAN FOOUNDATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPNMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX XI. SUIMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INPITS
1.      In addition to training inputs, which are summarized in Appendix XII, technical assistance
would be provided to support project implementation. It includes:
*  resident advisors and other expert services to increase capacity in the Project Center
(US$1.5 million);
*  consultant services to design management information systems for both the Project Center
and the Business Opportunities Bureau (US$2.5 million);
X  consultant services to develop information and marketing programs, including appropriate
publications, for the Business Outreach Program (approximately USS0.5 million).
2.      The Ministries of Finance and Economy are also expected to require expert services as part of
subprojects to be prepared in 1995-96, to include:
* for the Ministry of Finance, completion of a debt management system now under
development;
* for the Ministry of Economy, design of subprojects to improve public investment
programming and to introduce competitive bidding for federal procurement.
3.      The GOR will seek grant financing that is both timely and appropriate to support these
activities. Any loan resources thus freed would be reallocated to support preparation of additional
investment projects. A current estimate of TA inputs for the Project Center follows.



Technical AxnAe
Russia: Portfolio Development Project                                                         piae 35
Estimated Technical Assistance Requirements
Project Center
Expert Services                      Staff/Month'                       Total(US$)
Project Management Advisor                   24                         480,000
Accounting/Auditing/
Disbursement Advisor                        8                         160,000
Procurement Advisors
-Local                                12                         34,000
-International                        12                        240,000
Implementation/Training Advisor              12                        240,000
Ad Hoc Advisory Services
-Local                               24                          68,000
-International                        10                        200,000
Total                                                                 1,422,000
4.             The primary purpose of the resident advisors would be to assist Project Center staff
acquire skills more rapidly through on-the-job training. Management authority would reside with Project
Center staff; advisors would not be involved in executive decisions. Ad hoc advisory services will be
required as the external resource management process evolves and new demands are placed on Center
staff.
f/All international advisors are estinated at US$20.000 per smaffvmonth including tmvel, loc tmvel and per diem when appficable. Lca
advisors are eastimated at US$2,SOO per month.



Technical Axxex
Pare 36                                                                Portfolio Development Proiect
Appendix XII
THE RUSSLIN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX XII. SUM[ ARY OF TRAINI    INPUTS
1.           Purpose of Traning. Training inputs will make an important contribution to the success
of the project and are included in all three components. The first purpose is to develop project
management skills in the Project Center, the Business Opportunities Bureau and implementing agencies.
Additional specialized training may be arranged on a case-by-case basis for PPIU staff and financed from
project preparation funds. The second purpose is to train interested firms and contractors in bid
preparation for competitive tenders. Finally, subprojects to increase capacity in the Ministries of Finance
and Economy will also include training elements.
2.            Tranee Groups and Topics. Up to 100 professional staff of the Project Center (including
the Business Bureau) and 30 professional staff in at least ten PPIUs are expected to receive modular
courses ranaine from three days to three weeks in proiect manazement. disbursement. accounting/auditing
and procuremen , in addition to sector- and institution-specific courses as needed. Most of these courses
are available in Moscow (and in some cases, at Bank Headquarters) through EDI or through local
institutions trained by EDI. Procurement training is also available on a grant basis for a period financed
by the UK Know-How Fund. A significant number of Russian firms would receive general information
on IFI projects and procurement procedures in one-day seminars in Moscow and large regional centers.
In addition, more specialized courses in project costing and bid preparation would be targeted at selected
groups such as civil works contractors, design institutes and the manufacturing export sector.
3.            Training Dellvery Methods. A wide variety of delivery methods will be employed. Most
training would be in the form of modular courses contracted out by the Project Center, primarily to local
institutions but also to the Joint Vienna Institute. In a limited number of cases, study visits to the Bank,
EBRD or exemplary institutions may be organized for managers in the Project Center (including Business
Opportunities Bureau), PPIUs and core ministries. The Project Center will also organize: 1) workshops
for technical ministries in IFI projects and in the FPP program and procedures; 2) seminars for Russian
firms on business opportunities and IFI procurement practices; and 3) specialized courses for Russian
consultants and exporters. Finally, significant use will be made of on-the-job training, initially through
on-site technical assistance provided by expert advisors to the Project Center, and later by Project Center
staff to technical ministries.
4.            Tnaining Plan. The Project Center, with the assistance of expert advisors, will assess
training needs, topics and delivery methods in technical ministries and local firms after gaining experience
with initial PPIUs and business opportunities seminars. (The Center has already organized two successful
business opportunities seminars in Moscow and St. Petersburg that revealed more specific follow-up
training needs.) With respect to PPIUs, the Center would identify core skills required in most technical
ministries, more specialized needs, and expertise that might be more effectively contracted out. For local
firms, the Center would review the IBOS (International Business Opportunities) database and PIDs
(Project Information Documents) and match them, with the use of a management information system, to
potential Russian suppliers. Based on these reviews and the results of initial training courses, the Center
would develop a training plan by the end of 1995 to improve the effectiveness of training organized by
the Center.



Technikal Anxex
Russis: Portfolio Development Proioct                                                Past 37
Appeadhz XI11
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
APPENDIX Xm. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
TASK NAME                                   PROPOSED SCHEDULE
PROJECT START UP                            Jwuary - March 1995
1. Sign PPF
2. Issue General Procurement Notice (GPN)   February 1995
3. Initiate preparation activities          January - March 1995
For Center:
*     Technical Assistance
*     Staffing
*     Equipment
For Bureau:
*     Identify refurbishment
requirements
*     Evaluate design proposals
4. Assist with procurement documentation-   January - March 1995
*     Develop Terms of Reference
*     Issue Letters of Invitation
*     Initiate Requests for Proposals
|   *  Secure Bank clearances/no
objections
5. Conduct project launch workshop          February 1995
ESTABLISH OFF7CE PREMISES                   January  - September 1995
6. Obtain temporary offices                 January 2  - January 15, 1995
7. Tender refurbishment contracts (LCB);    March I  - May 3), 1995
Minor Contracts (LS)
8. Renovate Center; Bureau premises         June I  - September 30, 1995
9. Begin occupation of premises             June I  - June 30, 1995



Technicti Aaamex
Pate 38                                                             Portfolio De,dorment ProWedt
(PPF) EQUIPMENT PURCHASES                  January  - Apri 30, 1995
Bureau:
10. Complete LS tender process; award      March I  - March 31, 1995
contract(s)
11. Equipment delivery and installation    April I  - April 30, 1995
Center:
12. Complete ICB, IS, LCB tender process;  January  - April 30, 1995
award contract(s)
13. Equipment delivery and installation    March I  - April 30, 1995
STAFF RECRUITMENT & DEVELOPMENT   January  - December 31, 1995
14. Initiate recruitment process           January  - March 31, 1995
15. Review Consultant Evaluation Report    April I  - May 31, 1995
on Staffing; training needs
16. Implement recommendations; continue    June 1  - June 30, 1995
recruitment
17. For Center staff, conduct training at  January  - December 31, 1995
EDI etc.
18. Initial Appointment of Expert Advisors to    April 1  - April 30, 1995
Center
FUND FOR PROJECT PREPARATION                March 1, 1995  - December 31, 1998
19. Prepare format for FPP applications    March 1  - March 31, 1995
20. Establish Disbursement; Accounting     March I  - March 31, 1995
procedures
21. Approve initial subproject applications  March 1  - April 30, 1995
22. Conduct workshop for Technical          May 1  - June 30, 1995
Ministries
23. Review progress at CPPR                September 1995



Technica Axxer
Russia: Portfolio Development Proiect                                              PN. 39
24. Prepare mid-term review report         January 1, 1996  - February 28, 1996
25. Complete Disbursements                  unnl December 31, 1998
ADDITIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING IN            April 1, 1995  - June 30, 1996
PROJECT CENTER
26. Undertake Study Tours to IFIs          June 1, 1995  - June 30, 1996
27. Initiate Design of M.I.S; Database     April I  - November 30, 1995
28. Assist with procurement documentation  April I  - September 30, 1995
*     Develop Terms of Reference
*     Issue Letters of Invitation
*     Initiate Requests for Proposals
*     Secure Bank clearances/no
objections
*     Tendering of Bids; RFP*
Evaluation
*     Award Contract (s)
29. Conduct System Test and Initiation     November I - November 30, 1995
CAPACITY BUILDING IN IMPLEMENTING   April 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
AGENCIES
30. Train new PPIU staff                   April 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
31. Project Center undertakes advisory     April 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
activities:
*     On IFI practices              June 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
*     On Project Implementation     June 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
Plans (PIPs)
*     GOR recommendations on FPP   April 1, 1995  - April 30, 1998
financing
' RFP - Request for Proposal



Techicd AUL%u
Pae 40                                                              Portfoli Development Proiect
BUSINESS OPPORTUNI7TES BUREAU              Jowuary 1995  - June 30, 1998
31. Renovation of premises                 June I  - September 30, 1995
32. Develop Training Strategies; Business  May 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
outreach seminars
33. Begin work on M.I.S.; Database         April I  - November 30, 1995
34. Disseminate Bank documents (PIDs;      January  - August 31, 1995
guidelines etc.)
35. Conduct:                               June 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
*     Training program (s)
*     Business outreach seminars
CAPACITY BUIDIVNG IN CORE                  June 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
AGENCIES
36. Debt Management System (MoF)           February 1, 1996  - December 31, 1997
*     Prepare proposal
*     Obtain Bank approval of
Subproject
*     Tender Bids
*     Implement Subproject
37. Competitive Procurement (MoE)          July 1, 1995  - June 30, 1998
*     Prepare proposal
*     Obtain Bank approval of
Subproject
*     Tender Bids
*     Implement Subproject
38. Improved Public Investment             July 1, 1995  - December 31, 1996
Programming (MoE)
Prepare proposal
*     Obtain Bank approval of
Subproject
*     Tender Bids
*     Implement Subproject



Sr;~~, -  a O0 a; 1    , w b I. IJJ3  0*,       . 
I.  .1      ! h ll'1 jf| 
|~    'ij  ifITili IE
I~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ l



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX XiII. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I9"S                 19%4                  1997                   1
ID  Name                                                           r      2 Q lQU3    4                           1 2    3    4    I    2 131 4   t 11>2l  3 F-4
26  STAFF RECRUITMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
27      In-tAt Recnuitn Pi
2n      Review Comulsi Evaetios oStaffuig   Tramung Nea               g
29      baeymmi R*wnmaWdiou. Contulm  Reauitui
30      Cend  StIfT_i-s (Cail SUMl at EDI dc.                         _
31      Appoija   & Tra_i of Expq  Advisen to Cdwir
32  FUND FOR PROJECT PREPARATION
33      Pwqpar F e for FPP Aplictios 
34    EaMi DW net APatn hocdw
33        Mm  A-g  b"  Mhoitee AppUceti. 
36      CoAid Wetikbp fi TSAcul Mhi*1
37      Reviw harm at CuR
32      Prepe Mid Two      b Review Repot
39      Compeke D        _ usmeai
40  ADDITIONAL CAPACITY EUILDING IN PROJECT CENTER                    y-
41      Undake Study Toum b IFbl
42      1.10.4 Delpg of M.LSJDsIsDmm
43           1epae Taen ofd efad for Expert 8av  
44           Iuwce OfLAter soinvilatolma                             D
45           1ites Requa for Pfqpoeeb                                 Dl
46           Secur Bak CleukafNo Oljediu                              gm
47           Tndaing of P;  RFP Evakuation                              Elifi
42           AwrdnoCod   (a)                                                  -
49           Coniuding Syden Tet and Initiation                                    II        .
42



T'llE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX X1II. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ID  Name                                                           Qtr I    2 1 Q2     3 1Q  4 QtI I Qlr2 1   3 1Qt4 QtrI  1U2 fQir3 3Qr4 QrI IZp2  1 Qt3   4
50  CAPACITY BUILDING IN IlIPLEMENTING AGENCIES
SI      Tmin Ne uPPIU Staff
52      ProJect Caster Initaes Advls. Adtiviles
53           On IF[ adic.m
34           an Proect le1mmsiein Piece (PIP)_
55          aOR recanu ae        n    rli on 1PP rlancing
56  BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES BUREAU
57      Rovah   of Praniaeles
St      BuLoime Oubeach Sewninm
59      Distr%olkei AB* Dacmneia
60       DvuIDedop      of Data 3mn
61           Pqm Tofna fRe3ig    tr EEut Servimes
62              _e cLA., uyfllati.
63           J_iia Reva for Pipaa                                       Om
64           Sonm Ban aw.e.bNo OedkmO
65           T_in,dguflii o  IB   Evalurlen
66          AAwa&mgc(Cou I()                                                 -m)
67           CabaWig Sylahn Teal mid aititien                                        IM
6a       Devdep O0teah Prqgauu; T  sbng Struleges
69           Pea  Tamn s(Reforricefar ExprtServices           S
70           bmam  fLern c(hwilagm
71           Ibki  Revte     for PrpsII
72           Boom BDk ClearmsNo Objedics                                  I
73           Taeneig fBiB4; RFP EvaIuation                                  111
74           Awardkig ofConf ed (i)                                              I
43



THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX  XliI. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
_   "                  19m                 I ss     "7  1       9m     
ID  Name                                                       I | rQt  13lQtr4 QlQV2lQtr3         Q            3I   QlIjQ0,2jQt3 Qlt4
75          Inylktt OutbaCh Srlnt, Training Po
76  CAPACITY BUWLDINC IN CORE ACENCIES- SUBPROJECTS
77      Preopurula ofPr.pmd for Debt Mma_mem  Uya-e (M oF)
74         Obtai Bk Afk ovfl ob8uojec
79         Teder Bi  I ISubPrujd
W       Preparulam . _     P"_rup   em C _mpetUhe P _r.cuesmt (M-E)
II          Ohahfu *Appo,aof&uhoja
n2          Tender Eid  hykn.i SubProjed
83      PtrpwaIs of Prepeao Pubic Emvaaim1 i (MeE)
34         Obtai Bind Appovel oi'Subrojact
Us         Taw B  hybmAdlu oJed
44



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolo Dvdoomeat Pro;eCt                                                       Paee 45
Appendix MV
THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX XIV: SUPERVISION PLAN
Mission Dates        Nature of Mission    Required Personnel          sw/ea.           Total
1. Jan.-June 1995                          Task Manager (ResMis)          4             4
Disbursement Officer (ResMis)  4            4
2. February 1995     Project Launch/       Task Manager (HQ)
Supervision                                         2             2
3. April/May 1995   Supervision            Task Manager (HQ)              2
Training/Implem. spec.        3
Procurement specialist        3              8
TOTAL FY95                                                                             18
4. July 1995-June 1996                     Task Manager (ResMis)          4
Disbursement Officer (ResMis)  6            10
5. July 1995         Supervision           Task Manager (HQ)              2
Procurement specialist        2              4
6. November 1995    Supervision            Task Manager (HQ)              2
Procurement specialist        2              4
7. February 1996     Mid-Term Review       Task Managers (HQ/Res Mis)   2
Procurement Specialist        2
Training/Implem. spec.        2              8
TOTAL FY96                                                                              26
6. December 1996    Supervision            Task Managers (HQ/Res Mis)   2                4
7. June 1997         Supervision           Task Managers (HQ/Res Mis)   2                4
TOTAL FY97                                                                               8



Appendix XV
APPENDIX XV. PROCUREMNT PLAN
CONTRACT TYPE & TOTAL                   PROCUREMENT                       CRITICAL PROCUREMENT
SUBPROJECT                         COST (in min  USS)                      METHOD                                   STEPS
Bid Prop/tendering     Contract Signing
A. Fund for Project Preparation
* Consultancies                         Consultants Contracts       26.5     Where appropriate, Short List of  March 1995 -      (Throughout)
(Studies)                           3-6 Consultant Firms, election    December 1997
based on Technical Merit
* Equipment for Implementing Agencies   Information and             2.0      IS/LS (According to Thresholds   March 1995 -       (Throughout)
Communications                      in the Loan Agreement)          December 1997
Equipment and Supplies
* Pilot Works                            Rehabilitation Works,      1.5      LS/LCB (According to the        April 1995 - May    September 1995
Minor Maintenance                   Thresholds in the Loan          1995
Contracts                           Agreement)
B. Strengthening External Resource
Management
* Equipment for Project Center           Information and            1.5      ICB/IS/LS (According to         March 1995 - July   May 1995 - September 1995
Communications                      Thresholds in the Loan          1995
Equipment                           Agreement)
* TA for Core Agencies                   Consultancies/             2.0      IS/LS (According to Thresholds    March 1995 -      (Throughout)
Training/Equipment for              in the Loan Agreement); For     December 1997
Core Agencies                       Consultancies Short Lists of 3-6
Firms, selection based on
Technical Merit (Where
appropriate)
* Debt management system for MOF         Software Development       1.0      ICB or DC (not to exceed        January 1996 -      May 1996 - July 1996
and Equipment                       US$0.5 million)                 March 1996
46



CONTRACT TYPE & TOTAL                   PROCUREMENT                       CRITICAL PROCUREMENT
SUBPROJECT                        COST (in mlms US$)                      METHOD                                    STEPS
Bid Prep/tendering     Contract Signing
* Consulancies for Center and Bureau    Consultancies Contracts     2.5      Where appropriate, Short List of  January 1995 -    (rhroughout)
3-6 Consultant Firms, weection    September 1998
based on Technical Merit
C. Busine  Opportunities Bureau
* Refurbishment of Bureau premises      Design, Rehabilitation      3.5      LCB                             May 1995 - March   May/September 95
Works                                                               1995
* Data base on potential bidders        Software Development        1.0      Where appropriate, Short List of  April 1995 - July    July 1995 - September 1995
and Consultancies for               3-6 Consultant Firms, election    1995
Market Rearch                       based on Technical Merit            __c
* Business outreach progams             Consultancies               1.5      Where appropriate, Short Lint of  June 1995 -       (Throughout)
3-6 Consultant Firms, election    September 1998
based on Technical Merit
* Trining programs                      Consultancies               1.5      Where approprite, Short List of  June 1995 -        (Throughout)
3-6 Consulting Firms, election    September 1998
based on Technical Merit
47



Techrjc A"e=
Page 4a                                                              Portfolio Development Proiect
Appendix XVI
THE RUSSIAN EERTION
PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX XVI. MONITORING AND IMACT INDICATORS
The impact indicators for the project and measurements of its success are derived from the
purpose of the project and its major objectives.
The purpose of the project is to improve the Government's ability to mobilize, coordinate and
utilize external resources in support of economic reforms.
This purpose will be fulfilled by attainment of the following major objectives:
A. DEVELOPING SOUND PROPOSALS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS SUITABLE FOR BANK
FINANCING
Indicators                                 Measurement
i. Develop simple format for applications    1. Format approved and tested with first two
fur FPP funds                            subprojects
2. Establish procedures to transfer funds  2. Procedures established and tested with first two
from Special Account to project          subprojects
accounts and to monitor Center
efficiency in processing subprojects
3. Hold workshop for technical ministries   3.  - Number of ministries attending
to explain FPP program and procedures     - Assessment of impact by ministries
4. Approve subprojects                    4.  - Number of subprojects approved per fiscal
year
- Time elapsed to process applications



Technical Annex
Russia: Portfolio Development Proiect                                                 Pate 49
B. STRENGTHENING EXTERNAL RESOURCE COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
Indicators                                 Measurement
1. Increase operational readiness of Project  1. - Expert advisors recruited
Center                                    - Staff development plan completed
- Key staff hired and trained in project
management, procurement and disbursement
- Office equipment procured
2.  Achieve full functional capacity of  2.  - Amount of information requested or services
Project Center                             provided to technical and core ministries
- Number of training courses organized for
implementing agencies
* Management information systems operational
to track progress in subprojects and to
disseminate information on local consulting
industry
3.  Acquire operational debt management    3.  - Software designed and equipment installed
system in MOF                             - Staff trained
- Reporting system generating timely
information
4.  Initiate process to introduce competitive  4.  Expert services procured to draft procedures
bidding for public procurement            and regulatory framework
5.  Prepare subproject to improve public    5.  Subproject defined and implemented
investment programming
C. IMPROVING THE CAPACfTY OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Indicators                                  Measurement
1. Establish PPIUs early in project cycle    1. Timeliness and effectiveness of PPIU
institutional structure
2. Develop core skills of PPIU staff      2.  - Number of staff trained
- Amount and nature of services contracted out
- Reliance on external advisors



hale SO                                                             Portfolio De,elooment Proiect
D. INCREASING PARTICIPATION BY LOCAL FIRMS IN EXTERNALLY-FINANCED
PROJECTS
Indicators                                 Measurement
1. Greater participation by local consulting  1. - System established and updated to match
firms in project preparation and           local firms with PIDs
implementation within Russia             - Number of firms short-listed for tenders
- Number of firms retained for IFI project
work
2.  Greater participation by local suppliers   2. - System established and updated to match
of goods, works and services for          local firms with IBOS (International Business
projects outside Russia                    Opportunities) data base
- Number of firms contacted through Business
Opportunities Bureau seminars, training
programs and information network
- Number of firms bidding on IFI project work



