           Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 29497

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
       (PPFB-P2630 CPL-38440)

               ON A

               LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40 MILLION

              TO THE

       RUSSIAN FEDERATION

              FOR A

 PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




            June 24, 2004

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective July1, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Russian Ruble(RUR)
                      Russian Ruble(RUR) = US$ 0.033
                                      US$ 1 = RUR 30.31

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1     December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOB      Business Opportunities Bureau
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR     Country Portfolio Performance Review
FCPF     Federal Center for Project Finance
FY       Fiscal Year
GoR      Government of Russia
IBOS     International Business Opportunities Services
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
MoE      Ministry of Economy
MoEDT    Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
MoF      Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation
MoFA     Ministry of Foreign Affairs
MoJ      Ministry of Justice
MTR      Medium Term Review
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
PDL      Portfolio Development Loan
PID      Project Information Document
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PPIU     Project Preparation and Implementation Unit
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
TA       Technical Assistance
TTL      Task Team Leader



                            Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director       Kristalina I. Georgieva
                           Sector Manager        Richard Clifford
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Andrei Darusenkov

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    Portfolio Development


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P008823                                                  Project Name: Portfolio Development
Team Leader: Andrei Darusenkov                                       TL Unit: ECCU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Portfolio Development                                    L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P2630; CPL-38440
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Other economic management (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/30/1992                                     Effective: 11/04/1995                01/02/1996
     Appraisal: 04/21/1993                                         MTR:                             06/30/1997
      Approval: 02/16/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/1998                 05/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA/FEDERAL CENTER FOR PROJECT FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Kristalina I. Georgieva                        Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager:                 Richard Clifford
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrei Darusenkov                              Marsha M. Olive
ICR Primary Author:             Andrei Darusenkov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

   The Portfolio Development Project (more customarily referred to as the PDL - Portfolio Development
   Loan) was initiated in early 90's in response to the growing evidence of systemic administrative,

managerial and financial bottlenecks in the system of the Government that negatively affected the
preparation and implementation of the quickly expanding IFIs-financed portfolio of projects.

In early 1992 Russia embarked on a complex program of economic reforms focused on price and trade
liberalization and massive privatization of state-owned assets, that by end-1994 was followed by
measures to stabilize prices, curb raging inflation and deepen institutional changes in the economy.
Externally financed projects advancing the reform agenda, reducing the financing gap and demonstrating
improvements in the efficiency of public investments were seen as significant contributors to these
reform efforts.

By mid-90's the Bank had become the largest source of external finance for public investment, however,
implementation of the $3 billion of approved projects was beginning slow, largely due to the limited
capacity of the Government to effectively manage external resources. The identification and preparation
of new projects in the quickly growing pipeline entailed considerable upfront investments in view of the
size and diversity of Russia, the breadth of reform efforts and the lack of in-depth analysis and policy
framework in many sectors. Given the complexity and magnitude of its borrowing program from the
Bank, considerably more resources were required to develop and prepare projects that could be expected
from grant and PPF resources. In fact, PPFs, due to then cumbersome internal approval procedures and
inherent upfront political commitments, were not widely used.

Furthermore, the institutional framework for relations with IFIs was not clear with evolving roles of the
core and sector ministries, deputy prime ministers, Apparat of the Government, etc. without appropriate
coordination at both political and working levels. This was further complicated by frequent turnover of
Government officials assigned to the Bank's portfolio. In response to these problems the Government
established in 1995 the Federal Center for Project Finance (FCPF) (i) to support the identification and
preparation of externally assisted projects; (ii) advise and assist sector ministries and implementing
agencies of the IFIs' practices and procedures and monitor portfolio implementation; and (iii) support
the development of the local consulting industry and advise Russian businesses on bidding opportunities
in externally-financed projects.

The Project was conceived to address these institutional problems and preparation finance gaps and
therefore, as stated in Section 11 (page 3) of the Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President,
the three principal objectives of the Project were to:

    1. provide an assured and flexible source of funding for preparation of high-priority projects
         expected to be financed by the Bank;
    2. strengthen the institutions involved in coordinating and implementing externally-financed
         projects, particularly in the areas of project management, procurement, disbursement and
         project level accounting and auditing;
    3. develop the local consulting industry and contribute to greater participation by Russian
         enterprises in competitive bidding on externally-financed projects.

Project objectives were clear, realistic and important for the Russian Federation. They were in line with
the CAS objectives of (i) developing public sector institutions and procedures supportive of open and
constructive markets and oriented toward the provision of physical, social, legal, and institutional
infrastructure not normally provided through the private sector, and (ii) establishing the Bank as a
trusted and reliable development partner through the financing of high priority public sector investments
and policy advice on key economic and sectoral issues (Report No 14473-RU of May 15, 1995). Project
objectives remained relevant under the most recent CAS (Report No 24127-RU of May 14, 2002) with


                                                    - 2 -

   its emphasis on strengthening public sector management and improving the business environment and
   enhancing competition.

   Since the Project was initiated, there were no changes in the Recipient's circumstances and development
   priorities, which would require revision of the Project objectives.


3.2 Revised Objective:

   The original Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

   The Project (original loan amount ­ US$40 million ) included the following three components: (A) Fund
   for Project Preparation, (B) External Resource Management, and (C) Business Opportunities Bureau.

   Fund for Project Preparation (Part A, US$25 million) was designed to finance and support preparation
   of projects for which Bank financing had been or was expected to be requested. Under this component,
   line ministries in consultation with the Bank were to submit requests for FPP financing to the FCPF,
   which would review them for consistency with the Government's investment priorities as agreed with the
   Bank in the Country Assistance Strategy. Subprojects proposals mutually approved by the Government
   and the Bank would receive an allocation from the loan. Individual subprojects were not expected to
   exceed US$3 million. They would finance the cost of sector and feasibility studies, project design work
   and other project preparation activities. A limited amount of resources (under $2 million) would be
   available to support operational start-up costs in PIUs, and up to US$1.5 million for pilot activities
   related to the preparation of projects. The line ministries would handle all technical aspects of the
   subprojects and would contract consultants and procure equipment. The Center would monitor
   subproject processing, effect disbursements and provide advice when needed to PIUs on Bank
   procedures, particularly on procurement, disbursement and accounting.

   External Resource Management (Part B, US$7 million). The scope of this component was defined
   flexibly to respond to evolving needs. Initial activities were tentatively identified that would strengthen
   capacity in three parts of the Government: FCPF, core ministries, and sector ministries and
   implementing agencies. In summary, they included:

        1. consulting services, training, equipment, management information system and, possibly, study
            tours, to strengthen the Center's capacity to coordinate, evaluate and monitor
            externally-financed projects as well as to provide advisory services to Russian consultants and
            businesses;
        2. consulting services, equipment, training, and possibly, study tours to strengthen the capacity of
            core ministries in external resource management. This was likely to include equipment and
            advisory services for the Ministry of Finance to complete work already initiated on a debt
            management system, as well as support for the development of procedures and a regulatory
            framework to introduce competitive public procurement practices; and
        3. consulting services, training and possibly, study tours to increase the capacity of PIUs in critical
            project-related activities, including project management, procurement, as well as accounting and
            auditing.

   Business Opportunities Bureau (Part C, US7.5 million ). The primary purpose of this component was to



                                                       - 3 -

   advise potential exporters and firms of the opportunities and requirements for competing for
   externally-financed contracts. The Bureau would develop and manage a database on firms and
   enterprises with a potential interest in bidding. These would be matched with information from the
   Bank's Public Information Documents (PIDs) and International Business Opportunities Services
   (IBOS). Using this research, the Bureau would target audiences for its business outreach programs to
   include business opportunities seminars and information and marketing programs. The loan would
   finance consultant services to develop the data base, an information and marketing strategy, and
   appropriate publications. Finally, the loan would finance refurbishment of the Bureau's premises to
   make it more amenable as a location for business seminars.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

   At entry the project was not rated by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) as QAG did not exist at the
   time of the Project preparation. The Project aimed to support preparation and implementation of a
   quickly growing Bank's portfolio in Russia supporting the substantial integrated reform program that
   was designed rapidly during 1992-94. From the point of view of the technical subject matter, the
   Project was well prepared covering the major issues in a well structured and logical manner. The
   Project had narrowly focused and clear objectives, and streamlined procedures for approval of
   sub-projects. However, as a project involving creation of a new institution the Project faced significant
   risks that were difficult to mitigate in a quickly evolving socio-political environment in Russia with
   resulting frequent turnover of government officials. As a project that aimed to increase the capacity of
   the Government to manage the Bank supported program it was not immune itself from the Borrower's
   lack of prior experience with the Bank.

   The decision to go forward without a fully established, organized and operational FCPF was a
   calculated risk foreseen at appraisal. However, a strategic decision was made at the time, in line with
   other projects, to move quickly on getting the investment program in Russia up and running. The logic
   was that quick action was needed to deal with a volatile economic and political situation and that
   without such action, a relapse into communist rule was a distinct possibility.

   The combined impact of all these factors resulted in slow progress during the early years of
   implementation. After Board approval it took the Project almost 11 months to become effective,
   followed by over a year of very little progress due to teething problems of the Center. Eventually, the
   Project started to be implemented in earnest only after the new management team coming largely from
   the Ministry of Economy was introduced. Eventually, this three year Project ran for over 8 years,
   however several Project extensions were necessitated by the evolving borrowing strategies of the
   successive governments, rather than by the internal inefficiencies of the project. Therefore, the projects
   is rated satisfactory for quality at entry.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

   The Project was a major financing and administrative vehicle to prepare new projects during the very
   "bumpy" period of 1997-2003 in the socio-economic development of Russia. The share of the pipeline


                                                       - 4 -

   prepared through PDL funding and support was up to 70% in the last years of the project. It would be
   fair to state that especially in 1998-2001, in the aftermath of the crisis, there was hardly any systematic
   alternative to the PDL financing for project preparation either from the federal budget nor from other
   sources in the domestic legal environment that made the Bank's PPFs practically impossible.

   Even more important than availability of preparation funding was both a decision making mechanism
   involving core ministries and administrative capacity throughout the system created through the Project,
   to address the pipeline and portfolio management issues. Establishment of the Center wholly owned by
   the Government and co-managed by MoF and MoE augmented at the political level by the
   Interministerial Commission on IFIs created a logical and efficient system within the government
   bureaucracy to manage the relations with the Bank and other IFIs that played a critical role during the
   painful transition in the second half of the 90-s.

   The Business Opportunities Bureau played an important role in raising awareness of the domestic
   business community of the bidding opportunities under Bank-financed projects in Russia and elsewhere.
   Creation through the Project of the official public procurement publication ­ "Competitive Bidding"
   magazine ­ was an essential complement to the public procurement reform in Russia.

   The Project was a major vehicle to built and strengthen the ownership of the Bank's program by the
   Government and therefore the outcome/achievement of the project is rated satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

   Fund for Project Preparation (US$25 million, or 62% of the original Loan amount). The FPP financed
   preparation of a total of 21 projects, including 18 Bank-financed projects and three feasibility studies for
   large projects in the energy sector (Table 1). The dynamics of the share of projects prepared through the
   FPP financing in the total number of projects included in the program of Russia's borrowings from the
   Bank was as follows: 11% in 1996; 41% average in 1997-2000; and 70% average in 2001-2003. The
   total investments attracted into the Russian economy for implementation of these projects is estimated at
   almost US$ 4 billion (assuming the revolving nature of the Bank's guarantee operations).

           Table 1. Use of FPP Resources (as of 30.09.03)
                           Project                          Loan Amount          FPP Amount Used
                                                              US$ million            US$ million
    Sea Launch Guarantee*                                              1000.0                  0.538
    Electricity Sector Reform Support                                     40.0                 3.872
    Bureau of Economic Analysis                                           22.6                 0.226
    Social Protection Implementation Loan (SPIL)                          28.6                 0.395
    State Statistics System Development                                   30.0                 0.369
    Moscow Urban Transport                                                60.0                 1.995
    Sustainable Forestry Pilot                                            60.0                 0.691
    Northern Restructuring Pilot                                          80.0                 2.127
    Treasury Development                                                400.0                  0.497
    Coal and Forestry Guaranty                                          200,0                  0,725
    Pension Reform Support **                                               0.0                0.066
    Education Reform                                                      49.9                 0.730
    Health Reform Implementation                                          30.0                 0.662
    Second Tax Administration Modernization                             100.0                  0.440



                                                      - 5 -

 St. Petersburg Economic Development                                       161.1            2.599
 Customs Development                                                       140.0            0.096
 TB and Aids Control                                                       150.0            0.074
 E-Learning Support                                                        300.0            0.275
 Baltic Oil Pipeline System ***                                            460.0            1.658
 Kamchatka Power System ***                                                217.0            1.002
 Arkhangelsk Oblast Gasification ***                                       455.0            0.053
 Total                                                                   3,984.2          19.090

       */     Total amount of attracted investments with a guarantee of US$100 million.
       **/    The project eventually never became effective.
       ***/   Projects not to be financed by the Bank.


The average share of the project preparation costs covered from the Fund in the total project cost does
not exceed 0.7%. Overall, a total of US$19.090 million was provided from the Fund to the beneficiaries
for preparation of 21 projects, which makes 76.4% of the original Fund amount ( or 96.9% of the
reduced amount following cancellation of US$5.3 million that could not be used prior to the closing
date). Of this total reduced amount, US$9.818 million (51.4%) was provided on a repayable basis, and
US$9.272 million (48.6 %), on a grant basis.

Projects prepared through the PDL supported social and economic reforms underway in Russia in key
sectors:

     1. improving public sector governance and ensuring increased revenues and efficient control of
         budgetary expenditures at the federal and sub-national levels (36% of investments);
     2. reforms in health, education, and social protection of the population (33% of investments);
     3. development of businesses and market infrastructure (about 15% of investments), taking into
         account that support to private sector development was provided not only through lending, but
         also via attracting private investments backed by the Bank's partial risks guarantees;
     4. development of urban infrastructure in line with the government investment program (8% of
         investments).

The on-lending risk management system established by FCPF ensured 100% repayment of sub-loans
provided to non-public institutions for feasibility studies and other preparatory activities. As of
September 30, 2003, US$10.147 million equivalent of reflow funds (received as repayment of the
principal and service payments by the Fund beneficiaries) was accumulated in the Reflow Account,
including US$0.609 million and RUR271.288 million (equivalent to US$9.538 million at the exchange
rate as of July 1, 2003). These accumulated funds, if decided so by the Government, can be used for the
preparation of new projects.

The Project supported the development of a model to evaluate benefits generated by the Fund, allowing
the simulation of cash flows associated with contracting and servicing of the Bank's loans prepared
through the FPP financing. The model analyzes financial and fiscal benefits from the Fund's operation
under various scenarios of preparation and implementation of Bank-financed projects and of the
development of macroeconomic environment in Russia. It compares the option of the Government
raising an IBRD loan prepared through the Fund, with the option of borrowing the same amount of
funds for the same project from available alternative sources.

High demand for and efficient us of the Fund's resources prove that the Fund has become an effective


                                                       - 6 -

instrument of providing resources for preparation of Bank-financed projects proposed to be
implemented in Russia and therefore the component is rated satisfactory.

External Resource Management (US$7 million, or 17.5% of the original Loan amount). This
component supported creation of organizational, technical and methodological tools and instruments that
in their totality represent a sustainable and reasonably efficient mechanism for the preparation and
management of the Bank supported portfolio of projects. The main elements of this system include
instruments of organizational and analytical support, computerized information systems that provide
information on project preparation and implementation as well as methodological tools. The component
has also improved performance of those units in the core ministries and agencies that are directly
responsible for the Bank supported program. These include the Department of International Cooperation
at the Office of the Government of Russia (GoR), the Department of International Financial Institutions
at the Ministry of Finance (MoF), the Department of Interaction with International Financial and
Economic Institutions at the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (MoEDT), the Department
of Economic Cooperation at the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) and the Department of
International Economic Law at the Russian Ministry of Justice (MoJ), as well as the Federal Center for
Project Finance.

Memorandum on Monitoring of Preparation and Implementation of Bank-financed Projects in Russia.
An important systemic result of the Project has been the preparation and agreement on the Memorandum
on Monitoring of Preparation and Implementation of IBRD-financed Projects in Russia, signed by the
Government and the Bank on May 21, 2002. The Memorandum aims to:

    l ensure that projects under preparation fit the Bank's CAS and the Government's Program of
         Cooperation with the World Bank;
    l coordinate actions of key participants in project preparation and implementation;
    l ensure that projects are prepared and implemented in accordance with agreed plans, schedules
         and budgets;
    l timely identify and resolve potential problems in the course of project preparation and
         implementation;
    l help the Bank and Government make timely decisions to improve efficiency of project
         management.

Bank-Government Joint Working Group. Pursuant to the Memorandum, a Joint Working Group (JWG)
has been established including representatives of the Bank's Moscow Office, MoF, MoEDT,
Government Office and FCPF. While lacking formal decision making authority, the Joint Working
Group, that has held 11 meetings since it inception in the summer of 2002, has been a critically
important mechanism for discussion and resolution of portfolio wide and project specific issues. The
JWG with the strong ownership by the Government, has effectively replaced the post crisis semiannual
CPPR process. Working in cooperation with the Bank's project missions, implementing ministries and
agencies and PIUs, the JWG:

    l makes an annual programming review of the next year program in line with the Government and
         Bank budget cycles;
    l conducts at least quarterly reviews of problem projects and other critical project specific issues,
         such as extensions;
    l participates in the Bank's supervision missions.


Among other things, the JWG has approved and has been implementing the Procedure for extension


                                                   - 7 -

requests that makes the process timely, open and transparent which helps to prevent excessive sector
lobbying. While the JWG demonstrated its efficiency in resolution of implementation problems, it yet
has to improve its capacity to follow through on agreements reached on future projects, as this process
has proved to be extremely sensitive to political factors.

Improved Capacity in Core Ministries. Through a combination of procurement of critical equipment,
provision of selective advisory services and training of staff (as detailed below), provided through the
Project, adequate capacity has been created in all core ministries with a critical mass of qualified staff
equipped with adequate information technology and methodological materials. While turnover of staff
continues to affect these ministries, these changes are no longer critically disruptive.

Efficient FCPF. The project has succeeded in building the capacity of the Center to act as a de-facto
secretariat effectively supporting the core ministries in the management of the Bank's program in
Russia. In addition to its role in preparation finance, the FCPF assists the GoR in defining its strategy of
cooperation with the Bank, prepares regular analytical and informational reports for the Government
(such as status of project implementation, analysis of funds utilization across the portfolio, financial
profile of the Russia loan portfolio, utilization of the Bank loans in various sectors of economy and
regions of Russia), insures that lessons learned are incorporated in new projects. In many cases these
materials serve as a basis for subsequent decision-making by the Government. This coordinating role of
the Center has been further reinforced by its Director General's position as the Coordinator from GoR in
the Joint Working Group. It is important to note that FCPF is not a budget entity and it operating costs
were not financed from the Loan but rather from the income it receives from renting out space in the
building owned by FCPF in the center of Moscow.

Automated Systems for Monitoring of Portfolio and Pipeline. Two computer based systems to monitor
implementation of active projects and preparation of new projects have been set up and are now
operational. These bilingual systems (i) analyze the implementation of project specific activities agreed
upon by Russia and the Bank in the course of project preparation and supervision as recorded in
missions' aide-memoires; (ii) identify project preparation and implementation bottlenecks, and (ii)
forecast project and portfolio ratings. These Internet based on-line systems are accessed and used by the
Bank staff, Office of the Government, MoF, MoEDT, Chamber of Accounts, and PIUs.

Intranet Information System for Project Implementation Units. The Intranet based Information System
for Project Implementation Units (PIUs' Intranet) has been created and is now operational. The system
provides online information on project implementation performance and on implementing agencies
(Project Implementation Units) and serves as an efficient system of information exchange among various
PIUs as well as a source of information to the core ministries on the overall status of the Bank financed
portfolio in Russia. This information includes key project documents: project data, project related legal
documents, informational quarterly bulletins on project implementation status, minutes of JWG
meetings, aide memoirs of the Bank's missions, relevant mass media publications, etc. The system
assists the Government in analyzing implementation performance of both individual projects and the
entire portfolio, identifying bottlenecks in a timely fashion and, therefore, in taking timely portfolio
managements decisions.

Procedures and Methodology for Setting Salaries for PIU Staff. The methodology was prepared to set
salaries for PIU staff that was subsequently approved by the Ministry of Labor, MoF and MoEDT. The
Methodology allows to calculate salary levels for PIU staff on the basis of costs of similar services in
the local labor market, and the scope of work and project implementation performance of a specific PIU.
PIU staff salaries determined annually pursuant to the Methodology are further approved as part of the


                                                    - 8 -

PIU budget by the PIU governing bodies consisting of core and sector ministries' representatives.
Introduction of this Methodology, while not entirely uncontroversial as it employs the Bank's project
ratings as one of the factors, served to streamline and unify PIU salaries and respond to the Accounting
Chamber and mass media criticism of high PIU salaries that were seriously undermining the credibility
of the program among the public.

Draft Procedures for Evaluating Implementation Performance of Bank Financed Projects. Draft
Procedures for Evaluating Implementation Performance of Bank Financed Projects with a Format of
Evaluation Report have been developed and agreed with the Accounting Chamber and MoEDT and later
submitted to the GoR for approval.

Package of Draft Regulations and Instructions applicable to Bank Financed Project. As a result of a
major consulting assignment on generic project implementation issues, augmented by over 20 workshops
with PIU staff, the following package of documentation has been prepared:

    l major report with analysis of PIU operations on utilization of loan proceeds;
    l model of PIU operations;
    l proposals for accounting of assets purchased through Bank financed projects;
    l package of regulations and instructions applicable to project implementation, such as Standard
         Agency Agreement between MoF, implementing ministry and PIU; Standard Subloan
         Agreement between MoF and Sub-borrowers; Standard Agreement on Guarantees provided by
         regional administrations to MoF; draft Standard Co-financing Agreement with a regional
         administration; draft instructions on accounting and reporting in PIUs; draft Instruction of the
         Central Bank of Russia on terms and conditions of Special Accounts under Bank financed
         projects, etc.

This assignment tested a mechanism for preparation and justification of external borrowings, helped to
put in place accounting, analytical and control mechanisms of key external debt indicators, improve the
system of introducing adjustments in the action plan during project implementation. The work carried
out by the consultants resulted in a series of recommendations and practical tools for all stages of the
project cycle: from the evaluation of creditworthiness and procurement mechanisms to project closure
and performance evaluation. Many of these proposals have been subsequently incorporated in model
documentation and practices of the core ministries.

Strengthened Institutional Capacity of Core Ministries and Agencies. The component provided a
demand driven training to the key staff of the core ministries and agencies (Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Office of the Government,
Ministry of Justice, Federal Center for Project Finance) in competencies relevant to the World Bank
program in accordance with priorities indicated in the Loan Agreement: training in procurement, project
and program management, monitoring and evaluation of projects and programs, activities of
international financial institutions. Potential candidates' responsibilities were matched against the
proposed training subject. The range of topic covered was as diverse as IBRD rules and procedures,
procurement and financial management in Bank financed projects, cooperation with IFIs, project and
supply management in Bank financed projects, IBRD legal procedures, IBRD new financial products,
debt restructuring and analysis of sustainability, public debt management, project finance, methods of
credit analysis, political risk insurance, guarantees and guarantee facilities, structuring of legal
agreements for projects of private-public partnership. In view of the staff rotation risks in the core
ministries, a library of training materials gained through the component has been assembled that was
made available to other Government staff. The training activities under the component assisted in


                                                   - 9 -

establishing a core group of staff in the key ministries conversant with the Bank's procedures and
fundamentals of project and portfolio management.

Basic IT and communication equipment and furniture has been procured through the Project for IFI
related departments in MoF, MoEDT, MoFA and FCPF, that improved their overall efficiency at the
time of severe budget constraints in Russia. Installation of modern equipment in the FCPF's Training
Center had a substantial impact on the quality of services provided to public officials and private
companies' staff and its future sustainability. The lower than expected use of loan funds for this
subcomponent is attributable in part to specific features of taxation and reporting in Russia, that
complicate supplying equipment procured through funds managed by the third party (FCPF), to
ministries as end-beneficiaries.

Development of a System for Accounting of IFIs Related External Debt and Loans. The component has
assisted in developing a modern information system for the MOF's Department of International
Financial Institutions that combines information resources of the Bank, EBRD, sector ministries and
PIUs to address the task of accounting of transactions under IFIs financed projects and calculation of
liabilities for debt service management.

Overall, this Component assisted in the development of a comprehensive system for the management of
external borrowing program and increased ownership of the program by the Government. This system
includes a methodological framework for project development and implementation, monitoring
infrastructure, efficient communication between key ministries and other stakeholders, clear reporting
arrangements, adequate analytical support, Internet based on-line information resources. Therefore, the
component is rated satisfactory.

Business Opportunities Bureau (US$7.5 million, or 18.7% of the original Loan amount). The Business
Opportunities Bureau (BOB) established, refurbished and equipped under the Project has been
facilitating greater participation by Russian enterprises in competitive bids in Russia and CIS countries
for contracts financed by the Bank, other financial institutions as well as by the Government. The BOB
serves as an important institutional complement to the public procurement system in Russia by:

   l providing all interested parties with official information on bids to be conducted in Russia and
          abroad;
   l training of bidders and bid organizers in bidding procedures;
   l providing advisory services to bidders;
   l assisting in development of regulatory and legal framework for public procurement in the
          Russian Federation;
   l conducting public information activities to promote competitive public procurement.




                                                  - 10 -

Information and Analytical Gazette "Konkursnye Torgi" (Competitive bidding). The Project sponsored
the creation in 1998 and initial issues of an information and analytical gazette "Konkursnye Torgi"
initiated jointly by MoEDT and FCPF to inform businesses and the public of public procurement
opportunities in Russia. In accordance with Federal Law No. 97-FZ, dated May 6, 1999, and
Government Order No. 502-r, dated April 22, 2000, the Gazette is an official publication in which
budget financed organizations are required to publish procurement notices. In 1999, in addition to the
Gazette an accompanying Journal was launched to publish analytical materials, statistics,
methodological guidelines, and regulations in the area of public procurement. These two publications
address information needs of both prospective bidders and procuring agencies. Now the publication is
accompanied by the web-site.

The Gazette is issued every second Monday, and the Journal is released 8-10 times a year. Currently,
each issue of the Gazette publishes about 1100-1300 procurement notices up from about 100 notices in
2001, which makes it the most complete source of bidding information. All notices on bids conducted by
public organizations and under Bank financed projects in Russia are published free of charge. As of
early 2004, the number of subscriptions exceeded 4,000, which ensures fiscal sustainability of the
publication. Due to the computerized preparation of the Gazette on the basis of the BOB information
system, only about 10 staff members successfully cope with preparation and distribution of the
publication in spite of ever increasing number of notices and subscriptions. For comparison the staff of
a similar local publication "Moskovskiye Torgi" (Moscow Bidding) is three times larger, while it
publishes 15-20 times less information and it does not have an Internet website.

By introducing uniform standards for bidding information and by provision of information support the
publication has been contributing to the transparency of public procurement procedures and higher level
of competition.

BOB Information System. A Competitive Bids Information System (CB IS) was developed and
introduced under the Project in 1999 and has been subsequently developed and improved through
FCPF's own financing. In February 2002 at the Second Moscow International Fair of Innovations and
Investments, the CB IS was awarded a bronze medal for the support of the public procurement system in
Russia.

The system has a number of modules that allow to:

    l provide online access to bidding information through Internet;
    l store information on bids conducted by public purchasers, including their results and prices
         obtained;
    l ensure online publication of bidding information in the Internet to allow suppliers to
         immediately receive information on bids posted prior to the relevant issue of the Gazette
         "Konkursnye Torgi";
    l fully computerize preparation of the Gazette using the database;
    l prepare by computerized means and send notices on tender results through the Internet;
         computerized preparation and publication helps to minimize errors and improve quality of
         bidding information;
    l electronically introduce changes and amendments in terms and conditions of bidding documents
         with automatic notification of bidders, collect and publish questions sent by bidders and answers
         given by bid organizers;
    l conduct bids online by both private and public purchasers (domestic legislation does not set




                                                  - 11 -

         forth any rules for e-procurement);
    l track public purchasers' compliance with requirements regarding publication of procurement
         notices and bid results as well as assess the range of suppliers of an individual purchaser;
    l analyze suppliers' rating online (these data is used by the Association of Assistance to
         Competitive Procurement Development in Russia (set up by the FCPF and MoEDT) to evaluate
         the procurement process, including the selection of the winner of the annual Best Public
         Purchaser award that was conducted for the first time in 2003).

Today the Competitive Bids Information System supports all main elements of the public procurement
system. As of February 2004, more than 4,000 public purchasers representing the federal, regional and
municipal levels, have been registered in the system. Over 50,000 suppliers are users of the system. It
stores information about over 30,000 tenders conducted in Russia in 2000-2004. Today the system
registers data on more than 2,000 bids and more than 1,500 results of bids per month. More information
about the system can be obtained at www.bob.ru. While originally the CB IS aimed to transmit
information to suppliers on future bids, by now it has accumulated vast information on goods, works
and services procured for public needs. It allows users to obtain price information, forecast the volume
of the public procurement and purchase online. Work is under way to develop a module that will help set
various bid evaluation criteria depending on the type and amount of goods procured in a semi-automatic
mode. If applied, this approach will help users computerize the process of bids evaluation and minimize
subjectivity in summarizing results of the bids.

Efficient BOB Training Center. The BOB Training Center, refurbished and equipped through the
Project, is a first rate training facility on competitive procurement by the state, IFIs and commercial
companies. The project financed preparation of training materials on over 90 procurement related
topics, more than 880 slides, 5 business role plays and 20 case studies. The Center was staffed with
training experts graduated from the Public Procurement Management Institute in the Higher School of
Economics. Since its opening in 2001, the BOB Training Center organized and delivered about 100
workshops for about 1000 trainees from 500 entities, representing suppliers/contractors, public
purchasers and implementing agencies/PIUs of the Bank-financed projects. In addition to existing
programs on procurement of goods, works and services under World Bank procedures, several new
programs were developed to extend training to the area of the domestic public procurement. Evaluation
feedback from participants has demonstrated high degree of satisfaction with courses, training methods
and materials and training organization and facilities. Based on the feedback new workshops were
developed. A conference on Greater Opportunities for Russian Suppliers' Participation in
Implementation of World Bank Financed Projects in 2004 was held on December 3, 2003 to inform
prospective local bidders of the Bank financed projects scheduled for implementation in 2004, projected
amount of disbursements, procurement procedures to be employed and types of contract.

By the end of 2003, a comprehensive training program had been developed that included a range of
topics for commercial and public entities on domestic and international bidding. The up-to-date training
programs are focused on acquisition of practical skills. The program is based on a module principle
tailored to the level of trainees and includes basic and advanced modules, all modules supplementing
each other. Trainees can choose a different mix of workshops and select workshops that are most
relevant for their particular needs.

In conclusion, the BOB infrastructure established through the Project and high level of its fiscal
sustainability appears to be a critical factor in further development of the competitive procurement
system in Russia. Therefore, the component outcome is rated satisfactory.




                                                    - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
   N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

   As indicated above, the Project directly supported a wide range of institutional improvements, which
   significantly strengthened the Borrower's institutional capacity for management projects supported by
   external borrowings and donors. Therefore, for the purposes of the ICR (Section 2), the institutional
   development impact of the project is rated as substantial. The relevant project outcomes include, in
   particular, the following:

      l Portfolio monitoring and management mechanisms, tools and methodologies have been created
            through the Project centered around the Bank-Government Joint Working Group that despite the
            limitations of its mandate has critically contributed to the strengthened ownership of the
            program by the Government.

      l The Federal Center for Project Finance has been established and built up to assume an
            important role as (i) a support and advisor to the Government, core ministries, implementing
            agencies in portfolio and project management, (ii) a coordinator of the Bank-Government Joint
            Working Group, and (ii) an efficient financing vehicle for preparation of new projects.

      l Capacity of the core ministries to manage the Bank supported program has been substantially
            strengthened. A group of staff has been trained in the core ministries' units dealing with the
            Bank that is well conversant with the Bank and its procedures. These units have been adequately
            equipped with IT, communication equipment and relevant software to perform their functions.

      l The Business Opportunities Bureau created by the Project has filled the niche as a key entity to
            provide training in the Bank's procurement procedures and increasingly in various aspects of
            public procurement, as well as to support and further develop the public procurement system in
            Russia.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

   In August 1998, Russia experienced a severe financial crisis. The country defaulted on its external debt
   payments, the ruble exchange rate dropped by almost three times. The ruble equivalent of the dollar
   denominated debt had tripled accordingly, affecting not only on-going projects with on-lending to
   regions but also a number of regional projects under preparation. The overall portfolio rating plummeted
   to unprecedented low 30% of satisfactory projects. Up to US$17 million was frozen in Special Accounts
   in bankrupt domestic banks. The new Government embarked on a re-thinking of socio-economic
   policies, including borrowing strategy. Indecisiveness of the Government regarding the borrowing
   priorities resulted in slowing down the use of the Fund for Project Preparation and its consequent partial
   cancellation once eventually the final batch of future projects was agreed (already under the new
   Government) and FPP funds for its preparation were committed.




                                                      - 13 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

   The overall relatively low efficiency of the public service in Russia has affected this as well as other
   Bank-financed projects. In spite of the professional staff, many of whom have gone through training
   under the project, existing mechanisms and arrangements of interaction, coordination and decision
   making are still not perfect in ensuring efficiency in the development of external borrowing programs
   and management of externally financed projects. Unfortunately, interdepartmental rivalries and lobbying
   occasionally have been playing a more important role in defining the program than considerations of
   systemic impact and developmental priorities.

   The absence of performance based longer term horizon budgeting is another factor that has been
   affecting the program, as investment decisions were sometimes taken without due regard to longer term
   developmental impact and appropriate monitoring of performance indicators (it is only recently that the
   Government has started moving in this direction). Lack of clarity about who is doing what in the
   government, including the respective roles of core and sector ministries, and that of the Ministry of
   Finance and the Ministry of Economy, has been another factor detrimental to the process.

   At the initial project implementation stage the Government had not provided due leadership vis-·-vis the
   FCPF and had not applied adequate pressure on the Center's management to formulate and implement
   the work program in support of the project objectives. As a result the Project was effectively stalled by
   the then FCPF management that (i) insisted that preparation funds should be provided to sector
   ministries on a repayable basis, and (ii) focused on business related aspects of the Project as opposed to
   its public objectives.

   Finally, there is a risk that due to staff rotation, specialists trained under the Project would leave for
   other jobs in the government or, which is even more likely, for the private market. This risk was not so
   apparent during project implementation, however this may be different later on.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

   The project preparation stage was very much affected by the frequent turnover of counterparts, both
   entities and management. Following loan signature and project effectiveness, the management team at
   FCPF turned out to be inadequate either to formulate key activities in support of project objectives, nor
   to effectively assist the GoR in the management of the program. The second CPPR in 1996 produced an
   ample evidence of the Center's team inability to play a coordinating and logistical role for the portfolio
   review. The management of the Center of the time practically stalled the implementation of the Fund for
   Project Preparation for about a year by insisting on providing preparation funds to ministries on a
   repayable basis.

5.4 Costs and financing:

   At appraisal the total Project cost over three years was estimated at US$79.5 million. This was to be
   financed by the Bank's loan of US$40 million (50.3% of the project cost), and US$39.5 million by the
   Borrower. The actual Project cost was approximately US$50.9 million, of which US$28.3 was from the
   loan proceeds and US$22.6 million of counterpart co-financing (see Annex 2). US$11.7 million from the
   Loan was cancelled in several stages once the pipeline of new projects was already fully covered by the
   loan funds, and requirements of the core ministries in terms of IT and communication equipment had
   turned to be more modest than expected at appraisal, while the BOB's refurbishment ended up being less



                                                        - 14 -

   expensive than initially projected. The amount of Government co-financing has been reduced roughly
   accordingly. After the mid-term review in 1997 an amendment was introduced in the financing
   categories and respective reallocation effected to allow loan financing of operating costs of sector PIUs
   responsible for preparation of new projects financed by the PDL.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

   The project is highly likely to be sustainable for the following reasons.

   The Center continues to enjoy support of the Government, it is staffed with qualified specialists and
   equipped with IT and communication equipment and therefore is best placed to continue to perform its
   important functions of analytical and monitoring support to the Government's efforts to improve the
   portfolio management. Its is important that the Center earns to pay for its operating costs while its
   management structure ensures - through its Supervisory Board ­ that the Center indeed is an extension
   of the Government and is subordinate to its main stakeholders (MoEDT and MoF).

   The Russian Government, including the one recently appointed following the Presidential reelection, has
   stated its intention to further develop cooperation with the Bank. With the budget surplus of the recent
   years the Government now wants to have fewer loan supported projects, but the ones with increased
   focus and impact, especially in the regions. These projects may include big infrastructure projects of
   national importance, institutional development projects in public administration and social projects more
   focused on poverty reduction. Advisory role of the Bank is highly valued and proposed to be further
   expanded. Given this continued cooperation and expected qualitative improvements in the program, the
   role of the Federal Center for Project Finance is likely to remain important.

   Qualified staff has been trained and equipped through the Project in the core agencies' departments
   dealing with the Bank and other IFIs. While the risk of staff turnover is still relatively high and some
   downsizing across the entire Government bureaucracy may take place following the recent sweeping
   federal Government reorganization, it is not expected to severely affect the efficiency of these
   departments. They now possess a critical mass of qualified staff while under the favorable budget
   situation it is expected that their IT and communication equipment as well as supporting software will
   be timely and adequately updated. At the same time in the longer run the Government will need to
   address the issues related to the funding of training of new staff coming on board in the core ministries
   to work with the Bank. This will be needed to preserve the high caliber of staff that has been trained
   through the Project.

   The Business Opportunities Bureau, including its Training Center, has been refurbished and fully
   equipped through the Project and already during the Project achieved the level of cost recovery that
   made it fully fiscally sustainable. Hence, BOB can finance its own further development. The Training
   Center, which is fully operational, provides training programs for public agencies and private companies
   that were previously procured in the international market. Assisted by Russian consultants the Bureau
   has been facilitating creation of the infrastructure for the public procurement system, on the one hand,
   and produced and assembled a strong pool of highly skilled specialists in a number of areas, on the other
   hand. The Bureau is part and parcel of the developing public procurement "community" in Russia that
   includes, inter alia, MoEDT and Institute of Public Procurement at the High School of Economics, and
   in cooperation with these and other interested parties, it is expected to continue to play an important and
   constructive role in further development of the system.



                                                      - 15 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

   To a large extent, the transition to regular operations had taken place already prior to the closing date,
   partly due to the fiscal sustainability of the Center which acts as an extension of the Government with
   independent sources of revenues (the Center's operating costs have never been supported by the Loan).
   This is particularly true of the BOB component that ceased to use loan funding already some time ago,
   and of the institutional development component with the Center efficiently playing its coordinating and
   supportive role within the Government bureaucracy and in the Joint Working Group. The Fund for
   Project Preparation can, if the Government decides so, potentially use the reflows (repayments) under
   the on-going sub-loans, that are being accumulated in a separate bank account. The mechanism has been
   ably managed by FCPF throughout the project and proved its efficiency. However, in view of the
   on-going Bank supported budget reforms with emphasis on the Treasury execution of the budget, and
   given the budget surplus, it maybe expected that regular budget financing mechanisms will be employed
   for the preparation of new projects. In fact, creation of the revolving preparation fund has never been the
   objective of the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

   The Bank performance in lending is rated overall satisfactory. The Bank provided adequate support to
   GoR and other project stakeholders in identifying key project activities. It also assisted the Borrower in
   project preparation and insured a high degree of participation of key project governmental stakeholders
   in the appraisal. Objectives of the Project were fully consistent with the governmental development
   priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy for the country. Components of the Project were clearly
   defined and the institutional design of the proposed implementation arrangements, including for
   procurement and financial management, were adequate. Overall, a rather flexible and innovative project
   was developed as a tool to address existing institutional gaps, typical of the teething period for the new
   Borrower, related to preparation and management of external borrowing programs. Given the quickly
   evolving situation with reforms in Russia and massive external assistance, the Project was timely,
   relevant and adequate to existing conditions.

   However, in view of the unusual nature of the Project that had to operate in a very volatile, politically
   sensitive and institutionally weak environment, expected outcomes and to some extent the design of the
   Project lacked specificity. Therefore, the system of monitoring and evaluation based on measurable and
   quantifiable performance indicators, that would be typically found in newer Bank financed projects, was
   not the strongest aspect of this Project. This was further exacerbated by the need for the Borrower to
   learn and adapt to Bank's policies and requirements, and develop its own new operational procedures
   related to project governance, technical supervision, procurement planning, disbursement and financial
   arrangements, etc. For that, and some other reasons detailed in Section 7.5 below, the Project start-up
   was slow and required extensive support from the Bank.


7.2 Supervision:

   At an early stage the Project was incapacitated by frequent changes of the structure and management of
   the implementing agency. During the first year of implementation the then management team at FCPF
   had failed to adequately perform its functions both as the PIU for the project and as a coordinator within



                                                      - 16 -

   the Government on the Bank financed program. Hence, the Project was moving very slowly, its
   implementation rating was downgraded to unsatisfactory and potential cancellation of the project was
   discussed at that point. However, once the new team was installed in the Center in early 1997 and the
   Mid-Term Review was conducted by the Bank, the project implementation started in earnest. By
   mid-1997 the Project became fully satisfactory and this rating was maintained until project closing.

   The Project was one of the first in the Russia portfolio that benefited from delegation of task
   management responsibility to a national staff in the field. Subsequent decentralization of procurement
   and financial management resulted in having a Russian speaking project team located in Moscow that
   was best placed to provide advice, guidance and support not only on day-to-day supervision issues, but
   also on more strategic issues of the Project as the Country Director was also placed in Moscow. This
   was indeed critical for the Project with an evolving implementation plan. The Project was reviewed by
   QAG in 2001 and the review concluded that the supervision was highly satisfactory (see Annex 7 ­ ICR
   Supporting Document No. 4). The review revealed however that the Bank's processes and
   documentation requirements (missions, aide-memoires, etc.) are geared more towards the typical model
   of supervision from Washington, as opposed to supervision by the team which is in the field and can
   daily interact with counterparts on all project issues.

   The project ended up being a rather long one as the Bank (and the Borrower) grappled with the dilemma
   how to close what was basically a credit line for preparation of new projects as long as funds were still
   available and the agreed pipeline in place. In retrospect, these multiple project extension appear justified
   and necessary for the fuller achievement of the development objectives.

   For the purposes of the ICR, the Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

   The establishment of a new institution as a main project objective is always risky. In this case it appears
   to have been a well calculated risk. The Bank worked pragmatically, flexibly and patiently with
   counterparts on project related issues, including project extensions, to ensure that a very useful final
   result was achieved. Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

   Preparation activities on the Borrower's side were very much affected by multiple changes of the
   implementing agency and its management. This was detrimental to the consistency of the approach to
   the development of the project design and prevented preparation of the detailed action plan for project
   implementation. While the Government commitment to the Project and its objectives remained high
   throughout preparation stage, this commitment had not always translated into adequate involvement of
   the working level counterparts and preparation of quality inputs to the project design. For the above
   reasons, it took the Project about three years to materialize from the initial discussions and proposals to
   the approval by the Bank's Board of Directors. Therefore, the Borrower performance during preparation
   is rated unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:




                                                     - 17 -

   The implementation performance of the Government is rated satisfactory, albeit with some reservations.
   The Project has been very well managed through the FCPF's Supervisory Board where the Government
   is represented by the core government ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance as an official
   representative of the Borrower under loan agreements, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade as
   the ministry responsible for the substantive elements of the Bank's program, as well as the Ministry of
   Industry and Science, Ministry for Property Relations, and Ministry of Taxes and Fees. Strategic project
   decisions, such as loan amendments, extensions, reallocations, partial cancellations, etc. were made by
   these two ministries in a timely fashion. MoF was taking, albeit with some delays, appropriate steps to
   execute sub-loan and grant agreements to provide financing to preparation sub-projects. Both ministries
   and other stakeholders were actively engaged in the training component of the project. However, the
   Government was not as good at formulating a comprehensive approach and necessary inputs to the use
   of the project as an instrument to develop an efficient mechanism for preparation and management of
   externally financed projects. The were no articulated training strategy developed for the staff of the core
   ministries and no specific and consistent steps made to ensure reproduction of the knowledge gained
   during the project implementation.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

   At the initial stage the project experienced serious problems due to inability of the initial FCPF's
   management team to manage the project. However, once the new team took over in early 1997 FCPF
   has been an exemplary implementing agency. The Center exhibited extraordinary commitment to the
   project, and was a major driving force behind successful efforts to create a consistent and meaningful
   portfolio management system. Moreover, the Center turned into a de-facto secretariat of the Government
   on matters of IFIs supported programs, with its director general serving as a coordinator from the
   Government in the Joint Working Group. Cooperation with the Bank's project team was excellent. The
   FCPF's implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

   The Borrower maintained the commitment, capacity and resources required to successfully complete the
   project, achieve its objectives and maximize development benefits. The overall Borrower performance is
   rated satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

   The Portfolio Development Project was a very unusual operation implemented in a very unusual
   Borrower during a very specific time period. Hence, lessons learned do not lend themselves easily for
   formulation if one attempts to draw conclusions potentially applicable to new projects in Russia, let
   alone other countries. Nevertheless, the key lessons learned from the Portfolio Development Project are
   summarized below:

   Patience and flexibility of the Bank vis-·-vis project's teething problems pays off in the longer run.
   There have been a few projects in the Russia portfolio that have experienced severe difficulties during
   the initial implementation stage (such as Land Administration Reform Implementation (LARIS), Tax
   Administration Modernization, etc.). The reasons behind such painfully slow start-up have varied, but
   eventually these particular projects not only improved but in fact turned into success stories. It seems



                                                     - 18 -

that patience and flexibility exhibited by the Bank may work wonders for some projects. The difficulty
of course lays in making the right judgment about whether it will eventually pay to be patient and
flexible in a specific case. In retrospect, in this particular project it has worked apparently once the
critical mass of ownership of the Project accumulated circa 1997. The PDL started to perform only
when the right team was assembled in FCPF with very strong leadership.

Having a strong manager in an implementing agency may alter the project fate. The above leads to yet
another conclusion which is perhaps a controversial one, i.e. that a new institution building project may
succeed provided, among other things, that a capable, well connected and strong manager is identified,
whose commitment to the project is clearly above average and who has skills that are normally required
for crisis management. If this is not the case then the risks to the sustainability of the project increase
exponentially.

Decentralization of task management benefits a project. For the project as cross-cutting as this one,
decentralization of the task management functions, as well as procurement and financial management
support is a critical advantage. Portfolio building is really a very much joint exercise that can not be
delegated to PIU's consultants, even if extremely capable ones. This work requires practically daily
interactions between senior staff of the country department and their counterparts in the Government.
Such close interaction is hardly possible with Washington-based staff. In this particular case, the project
benefited from almost simultaneous task management delegation to the field by the Bank and
introduction of the new team at FCPF. Physical proximity of the task team to the Country Director and
Country Manager, who were stationed in Moscow about the same time, was also a critical factor for the
success of the project. On top of it, a portfolio manager in the Moscow office was a logical choice for
the job of the task manager of this portfolio development project.

The supervision requirements could be adjusted by factoring in task teams in the field. However, such
full delegation of the task team to the field revealed that the supervision requirements, especially for
documentation, are very much geared towards a typical model of task management from Washington
with regular supervision missions. When the task team is permanently in the field project issues are
being resolved on the daily basis and, hence, recording of these project developments in formal
aide-memoires tend to seem like a somewhat artificial and superficial burden. Perhaps an alternative
arrangement to record the status of such project could be offered.

Innovative solutions to fiscal sustainability of project created entities. Fiscal sustainability of a new
entity is a key foundation for success of an institution building project, especially if an entity created is
not supposed to or can not be, for various reasons, financed from the regular budget. The solution for
this Project, though again perhaps not easily replicable, but certainly an effective one was to provide to
FCPF a building in the center of Moscow. The building is a major source of revenues to cover FCPF's
operating costs and thus an important factor behind the sustainability of the project.

In spite of the obvious success of the Project, a major dilemma remains, i.e. should the functions
performed by FCPF-like organizations be rather carried out by regular government agencies within a
streamlined government structures (as promoted by the Bank), or given a very specific nature of
relationship between the Bank and a Government specially created bodies for external aid coordination
have the right to exist and may be quite helpful, especially in the face of the typical antagonisms
between ministries of finance and economy world-wide? In Russia FCPF became an efficient and
indispensable tool for cooperation with the Bank ideally designed to resolve "country-specific" issues. It
remains to be seen whether this model should or can be replicated elsewhere.




                                                    - 19 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                       Summary Report by FCPF on Project Outputs and Outcomes
                                                   June 18, 2004

   An IBRD Loan for the Portfolio Development Project was contracted in accordance with GoR
   Resolution No. 1249 of December 26, 1995.

   The Project had three major objectives:

      l develop substantiated proposals for future projects eligible for financing by the IBRD; provide
            guaranteed sources of funding for the preparation of top priority projects proposed to be
            financed by the Bank;

      l strengthen organizations involved in the approval and implementation of externally financed
            projects, particularly in the areas of project management, procurement, costing, accounting and
            auditing at all project levels;

      l develop the local consulting industry which should help encourage greater interest from Russian
            enterprises in competitive bidding for projects financed from external sources.

   The composition of the project objectives suggests a comprehensive approach to addressing the issue of
   increasing the efficacy of Russian borrowings from the IBRD.

   In line with the project objectives, the Project included the components outlined below.

   The Project Preparation Fund was designed to finance and support preparation activities for the
   projects with respect to which applications for receiving funding from an IBRD loan have been
   submitted to the IBRD, and also to support pilot projects related to the preparation activities.

   Enhancing the institutional and operational capacity of the Federal Center for Project Finance and
   other relevant state establishments in the area of management and coordination of externally
   financed activities.

   Activities under this part of the project were defined flexibly so as to allow meeting growing needs.
   Initial activities were aimed at strengthening the capacity in the three government segments: the core
   government, central ministries, and line ministries and executive agencies. In summary, these activities
   included:

      l consulting services, training, procurement of equipment, management information system, and
            possible study tours with the aim of strengthening the capacity of the Center in coordination,
            evaluation, and monitoring of externally financed projects and also providing counseling
            services to Russian consulting firms and enterprises;
      l consulting services, procurement of equipment, training, and possible study tours with the aim
            of strengthening the capacity of central ministries in managing external resources. This should
            include equipment and consulting services for the Ministry of Finance to finalize the already



                                                      - 20 -

         initiated work on the debt tracking and management system, as well as assistance in the
         development of procedures and the regulatory framework for introducing competitive practices
         of public procurement; and
   l consulting services, training and possible study tours to improve the capacity of the Project
         Preparation Group in critical project-related areas, including project management, procurement,
         as well as accounting and auditing.

Business Opportunities Bureau. This component was designed to support a business promotion
program and create a database of enterprises potentially interested in participation in World Bank
supported tenders.

The project implementation period as set by the Loan Agreement was through December 31, 1998.
Subsequently, the implementation period was extended several times, and the final version of the Loan
Agreement specified as the loan closing date May 31, 2003. The implementing organization for the
Project was the Federal Center for Project Finance (FCPF), an open joint-stock company established by
a GoR resolution to undertake work on preparing and implementing projects provided for by agreements
between the Russian Federation and international financial institutions and also financed from other
external sources. Our evaluation shows that the Project not only has achieved its objectives but also
generated many system-wide effects that are essential in terms of building mechanisms for the efficient
use of government investment resources.

Implementation of the concept of the Project Preparation Fund (hereinafter ­ the "Fund"), which was
created in the amount US$25 million out of the proceeds of the IBRD Loan (No. 3844-RU) under its
Part A, made it possible to develop and introduce modern principles of forming a portfolio of
borrowings, and also create mechanisms for provision of funding for project preparation and a system
for monitoring of the preparation processes.

During 1996­2003, the Project supported preparation of and provided assistance in implementation of
three 3-year indicative programs of cooperation between Russia and the IBRD, approved by the Russian
Government. Using financial resources of the Fund, a total of 21 projects were prepared, including 18
IBRD-financed projects and three feasibility studies for large projects in the oil and gas sector. The
amount of investments attracted in the Russian economy for implementation of the prepared projects is
estimated to make US$3.5 billion (with allowance for the revolving nature of IBRD guarantee
operations).

The average share of the project preparation costs covered from the Fund in the total project costs does
not exceed 0.7 percent.

High demand on Fund resources is evidence that the Fund has become an effectual instrument capable of
efficiently providing finance for preparation of large IBRD-supported projects proposed to be
implemented in Russia.

As part of the project implementation, a great deal of attention was devoted to the creation and
development of a management system for the IBRD portfolio of Russian projects.

The efforts of project participants were focused on creating a system of management, i.e., a set of
organizational, technical, and methodological tools which, in their totality, would constitute a
sustainable and efficiently functioning mechanism for project portfolio management. As its key
elements, this system includes the following: means of organizational and analytical support (the


                                                  - 21 -

institution of the Joint Working Group (JWG) comprising representatives of Russia and the Bank,
various review materials and briefing notes, thematic workshops), technical means of information
support (automated information systems containing data on how preparation and implementation of the
projects progress), and means of methodological support (various guidelines and directive materials).
Thus, the task of project portfolio management was approached in the comprehensive manner.

The Project supported creation of the Automated System for Evaluation and Development Outlook for
Project Portfolio which is now functional. This system is designed for review of the progress in
implementing measures to improve the performance of particular projects as agreed between the Russian
side and the Bank and for forecasting ratings of each particular project and the overall portfolio based
on the on-line data provided via the Internet. Such measures are developed based on the findings of
IBRD missions on each project under implementation. Based on the results of implementation of these
measures at each particular point in time ratings are assigned to each of the projects and the overall
project portfolio. Users of this automated system include Bank's project teams, all PIUs, GoR Office,
MOF, MEDT, Russia's Chamber of Accounts, and World Bank Moscow office.

The Corporate Information System of PIUs has been created and is now functional, which, on the one
hand, serves as a source of on-line information on the course of implementation of particular projects
and on organizational structures (project implementation units) involved in their implementation and, on
the other, is an efficient vehicle for information exchange between various PIUs and also a source of
information on the overall status of the IBRD's Russian project portfolio.

Preparation and adoption of the Memorandum on Monitoring of the Preparation and Implementation of
IBRD-financed Projects in Russia had a significant role in making the system of project portfolio
management more effective. Having defined the objectives of joint monitoring, this Memorandum has
identified a new mechanism for development and clearance of joint proposals for handling day-to-day
issues in preparation and implementation of the projects ­ the Joint Working Group (JWG) ­ and
specified procedures for its functioning. As an instrument of day-to-day monitoring in the time between
JWG meetings, the document has defined the Automated System for Evaluation of and Development
Outlook for Project Portfolio and the Automated System for Monitoring of Project Preparation.

It is of note that the institution of the JWG was created in 2002 at a point when the Inter-Agency
Commission for Cooperation with International Financial and Economic Organization (IAC) had not
met for as long as two years while its working body (the Working Group) by that moment also had
virtually stopped functioning. Thus continuity was ensured in that the processes of strategic and
day-to-day decision-making moved first from the IAC to its Working Group and then from the Working
Group to the JWG. At the same time, the new institution acquired a new quality through involving the
Bank into the decision making process, which undoubtedly improved the efficacy and timeliness of
adopted decisions.

In the course of the project, a great deal of work was undertaken to develop materials on the methods of
improving the effectiveness of cooperation between Russia and the IBRD. These include proposals on
evaluation of the performance of IBRD projects in Russia, methods of establishing salary levels at
project implementation units, and a package of draft regulatory and directive documents regulating
activities of participants in implementation of Bank-financed projects.

The Business Opportunities Bureau (BOB) was established in 1997 as part of the Portfolio
Development Project. The key aim of creating the BOB was to expand participation of Russian
enterprises in competitive bidding for contracts for goods, works and services procured under World


                                                   - 22 -

Bank projects in Russia and CIS countries, and also held by other international financial institutions or
public sector clients in the Russian Federation.

In 1998, in order to raise awareness of the general public and the business community of bidding for
contracts for goods, works or services held in the Russian Federation the Ministry of Economic
Development and Trade together with the Federal Center for Project Finance instituted an information
and analytical bulletin named "Competitive Bidding." Presently, in accordance with Federal Law No.
97-·· dated May 6, 1999 and based on GoR Directive No.502-· dated April 22, 2000, this bulletin has
become "an official publication of the authorized federal executive authority," in which administrators
of budgetary funds must announce every open tender. Presently, the bulletin comes out every second
Monday in a month while the journal supplement is published 8-10 times a year.

Publication of the Competitive Bidding bulletin during 1998-2001 made it possible to initiate
development of a system of procurements for public needs. The disclosure standards for public
procurement that were developed by BOB staff had a drastic impact on all of the procedures used by
public sector clients in their procurement activities. Back then public sector clients were not experienced
enough in holding bidding for goods and works contracts. In that context, the editorial staff of the
Competitive Bidding bulletin were counseling representatives of public sector clients both on the matters
of information support at all stages in the procurement process and on basic aspects of procurement
procedures. Introduction of uniform standards for information provision has appreciably increased the
efficiency of information support for the bidding procedures and improved the transparency of public
procurement processes. This increased competition in the area of public procurement, indirectly
evidenced by an eight-fold rise in the number of bulletin subscribers during 1998-2003.

Since 2001, the bulletin has been financed exclusively from subscription fees. The stable financial status
of the publication makes it possible to continuously upgrade the process of handling the growing
amounts of information and do without increasing the number of BOB staff members engaged in bulletin
publication. Presently, as a result of integrating the bulletin with the BOB Information System (IS) and
creating a system for automated composition of the bulletin from the BOB IS, the number of staff
members involved in the publication and subscription processes is as small as ten.

In 1999, the Bank project supported the development and introduction of the Competitive Bidding
Information System. At that time, the main purpose of the system was to provide ­ as efficiently as
possible ­ access to bidding information via Internet and to assure delivery of such information to
vendors by distributing notices via e-mail and fax. Information updates of the IS and the bulletin have
been fully synchronized since May 2000. Since then the information system contains information on
tenders held by public sector clients and on their outcomes, including description of procured products
and price data.

Presently, the Competitive Bidding Information System supports all key elements in the competitive
procurement process. As of February 2004, more than 4,000 public clients at the federal, regional, and
municipal levels have been registered in the system. Also, among system's users are more than 50,000
vendors.

The BOB training center is organizing seminars on the aspects of participation in and organization of
competitive bidding for contracts for goods, works, or services procured under projects financed by
international financial institutions and also those procured for public needs or for needs of commercial
organizations.




                                                   - 23 -

   Thus, it would safe to say that the infrastructure created by BOB has now become the core of the
   competitive procurement system in the Russian Federation. Continuous and dynamic development of this
   infrastructure helps generate efficiency gains in spending of budgetary funds, including borrowings, and
   supports the designing and introduction of modern procurement technologies that help reduce the costs
   of holding tenders. The high level of financial autonomy of the BOB, making possible regular
   investments in the development of BOB in general and the competitive procurement system in particular,
   suggests long-term sustainability of the Bureau.

   Implementation of the Project was generally successful thanks to the efficient work of the Bank project
   team, leading Russian ministries, and the FCPF. The Bank team was managing the Project, promptly
   responding to changes in the management of the IBRD portfolio of Russian projects. The Bank was
   providing methodological assistance to Russian project participants, especially as concerns provision of
   information on foreign experiences and best international practice. An important component of the
   success was the fact that the Bank team was comprised of staff members of the Bank Moscow office.
   This made it possible to efficiently conduct day-to-day monitoring, promptly adopt decisions concerning
   the Project, and interact with Russian project participants.

   Following closure of the loan that supported the Project, the system of cooperation between Russia and
   the IBRD keeps on developing based on the results generated by the Project, which is evidence for
   sustainability of the Project. It is of note that implementation of the Project continues up to now with the
   involvement on the methodological side of staff members of the Bank's Moscow office.

   In summary, the IBRD loan extended in support of the Portfolio Development Project has laid the
   groundwork for the system of management of the portfolio of external borrowings contracted for
   purposes of institutional development in the Russian Federation.


(b) Cofinanciers:
   None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
   None

10. Additional Information

   None




                                                       - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1.Develop sound proposals for future                                       The FPP financed preparation of a total of 21
projects suitable for Bank Financing                                       projects, including 18 Bank-financed projects
                                                                           and three feasibility studies for large projects
                                                                           in the energy sector. Of these 18, only one
                                                                           project was dropped prior to effectiveness.
                                                                           The dynamics of the share of projects
                                                                           prepared through the FPP financing in the
                                                                           total number of projects included in the
                                                                           program of Russia's borrowings from the
                                                                           Bank was as follows: 11% in 1996; 41%
                                                                           average in 1997-2000; and 70% average in
                                                                           2001-2003.

                                                                           Application format and procedures have been
a) Develop simple format for applications for                              approved by the Government decree No 395
FPP funds                                                                  on the dealings with the Bank.




b) Establish procedures to transfer funds                                  A comprehensive disbursement manual has
from Special Accounts to projects accounts                                 been developed and approved to guide the
and to monitor Center efficiency in                                        disbursement process for the project,
processing subprojects                                                     including operations of the Special and
                                                                           sub-projects accounts.


c) Hold workshop for technical ministries to                               FPP program and procedures are available
explain FPP program and procedure                                          on-line in the Internet, and experienced
                                                                           FCPF's staff is available to guide sector
                                                                           ministries in the application process.

d) Approve subprojects                                                     A total of 21 sub-projects have been
                                                                           approved. Time lapsed to process
                                                                           applications varied throughout the life of the
                                                                           project from two to several months depending
                                                                           on particular circumstances.

2. Strengthen external Resource                                            The component assisted in the development
Coordination and Management                                                of a comprehensive system for the
                                                                           management of external borrowing program
                                                                           and increased ownership of the program by
                                                                           the Government. This system includes a
                                                                           methodological framework for project
                                                                           development and implementation, monitoring
                                                                           mechanisms, efficient communication
                                                                           between key ministries and other
                                                                           stakeholders, clear reporting arrangements,
                                                                           adequate analytical support, Internet based
                                                                           on-line information resources.


                                                                           The Center has been fully (i) staffed by
a) Increase operational readiness of Project                               trained specialists, (ii) equipped with IT and
Center                                                                     communication technology and furniture and
                                                                           (iii) management information systems and
b) Achieve full functional capacity of Project                             databases. The project has succeeded in
Center                                                                     building the capacity of the Center to act as a
                                                                           de-facto secretariat of the Government
                                                                           effectively supporting the core ministries in
                                                                           the management of the Bank's program in
                                                                           Russia. In addition to its role in preparation
                                                                           finance, the FCPF assists the GoR in
                                                                           defining its strategy of cooperation with the



                                                        - 25 -

                                                                           Bank, prepares regular analytical and
                                                                           informational reports for the Government,
                                                                           insures that lessons learned are incorporated
                                                                           in new projects. This coordinating role of the
                                                                           Center has been further reinforced by its
                                                                           Director General's position as the
                                                                           Coordinator from GoR in the Joint Working
                                                                           Group.




                                                                           Debt Management System related to Bank
c) Acquire operational debt management                                     financed projects has been created in MoF.
system in MoF                                                              Development of the comprehensive MoF's
                                                                           Debt Management System was to be handled
                                                                           under a separate component of the Capital
                                                                           Markets Development Project.


                                                                           Competitive public procurement has been
d) Initiate process to introduce competitive                               introduced through appropriate laws and
bidding for public procurement                                             regulations supported by the Bank's IDF
                                                                           grant. Subsequently, project played an
                                                                           important role by ensuring the issue of the
                                                                           official public procurement publication and
                                                                           other business outreach programs.

                                                                           Improvement of the public investment
e) Prepare subproject to improve public                                    programming turned out to be a much
investment programming                                                     broader task that was beyond the project
                                                                           scope and influence.

3. Improve the capacity of implementing                                    PPIUs are selected on a competitive basis
agencies                                                                   among existing PIUs early on in the project
                                                                           cycle to assist ministries with administrative
a) Establish PPIUs early in project cycle                                  procurement/disbursement/auditing
                                                                           procedures. Existing PIUs possess
b) Develop core skills of PPIU staff                                       professional staff and technology to effective
                                                                           assist ministries in project implementation.

4. Increase participation by local firms in                                The share of local consultants in Bank
externally-financed projects                                               financed contracts increased from 18% in
                                                                           1996 to 64% in 2001. Participation of
a) Greater participation by local consulting                               Russian suppliers in Bank financed project in
firms in project preparation and                                           Russia has been steadily increasing,
implementation within Russia                                               however, it varied significantly depending on
                                                                           the nature of projects, for instance, from 10%
b) Greater participation by local suppliers of                             under Oil Rehabilitation projects, to 74%
goods, works and services for projects                                     under Enterprise Housing Divestiture
outside Russia                                                             Projects.




At the time of the Project approval log frame matrix was not in use. Key performance indicators for the
Project were formulated in such a way that outcome and output indicators were blended and hence are
treated in the above table only.

Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




                                                        - 26 -

1End of project




                   - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Fund for Project Preparation                                 28.00          23.36              83
External Resource Management                                 35.10          17.88              51
Business Opportunities Bureau                                16.40            9.70             59

Total Baseline Cost                                          79.50          50.94
                         Total Project Costs                 79.50          50.94
                           Interest during construction
                  Total Financing Required                   79.50          50.94




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00             4.20         0.80         7.20        12.20
                                   (0.00)           (4.20)      (0.80)         (0.00)      (5.00)
2. Goods                            2.00             0.20         4.50         2.70         9.40
                                   (2.00)           (0.15)      (4.50)         (0.00)      (6.65)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00        16.10         0.00        16.10
Technical Assistance               (0.00)           (0.00)      (12.87)        (0.00)     (12.87)
5. Miscellaneous:                   0.00             0.00         0.50         0.00         0.50
Refinancing PPF                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)      (0.50)
   Total                            2.00             4.40        21.90         36.50       64.80
                                   (2.00)           (4.35)      (18.67)        (0.00)     (25.02)




                                                 - 28 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
  1. Works                                   0.00              1.79              0.00             2.03             3.82
                                           (0.00)             (1.36)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (1.36)
  2. Goods                                   0.00              0.00              0.43             3.12             3.55
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.27)           (0.00)            (0.27)
  3. Services                                0.00              0.00             22.66             1.14             23.80
  Technical Assistance                     (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.00)           (0.00)           (15.00)
  5. Miscellaneous:                          0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00
  Refinancing PPF                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
      Total                                  0.00              1.79             23.09            22.59             47.47
                                           (0.00)             (1.36)           (15.27)           (0.00)           (16.63)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through nation-al shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
      staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank          Govt.       CoF.         Bank        Govt.        CoF.      Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Fund for Project              25.00          3.00                     19.10        4.26                  76.4     142.0
Preparation

External Resource              7.50          27.60                    4.45        13.43                  59.3     48.7
Management

Business Opportunities         7.50          8.90                     4.80         4.90                  64.0     55.1
Bureau

Total                         40.00          39.50                    28.35       22.59                  70.9     57.2




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/26/1992                1    CO-TASK MANAGER(1);
                                             TASK MANAGER(1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/20/1993                2    CO-TASK MANAGER(1);
                                             TASK MANAGER(1)

 Supervision

              06/23/1995                3    CO-TASK MANAGER (1);             U               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              11/21/1995                4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          U               S
                                             CO-TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              06/25/1996                5    OPERATIONS MANAGER (1);          U               U
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1)
              05/30/1997                6    MGR. OF OPERATIONS (1);          S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ACCOUNTING
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); IMPLEMENT. SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              07/06/1998                7    TASK TEAM LEADER                 S               S
                                             (1);DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1);IMPLEMENT. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HEAD OF MOSCOW
                                             OFFICE (1)
              03/19/1999                8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HEAD OF MOSCOW
                                             OFFICE (1)
              12/19/1999                9    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HEAD OF MOSCOW
                                             OFFICE (1)
              06/30/2000               10    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HEAD OF MOSCOW
                                             OFFICE (1)
              12/25/2000               11    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                                              - 31 -

                                            (1); PROJECT ASSISTANCE
               06/29/2001            12     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROJECT ASSISTANCE
               12/27/2001            13     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROJECT ASSISTANCE
               06/15/2002            14     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROJECT ASSISTANCE
                                            DISBURSEMENT SPEC.(1)
               12/12/2002            15     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROJECT ASSISTANCE;
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPEC.



 ICR
               06/24/2004             1     TASK TEAM LEADER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               24
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     8                          126
  Supervision                            160                           485
  ICR                                       4
  Total                                  196                           611




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IBRD to the Executive Directors on a
    proposed Loan in the amount of equivalent to US$ 40 million to the Russian Federation for a
    Portfolio Development Project No. P-6506-RU, January 26, 1995.
 2. Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President report, Russian Federation, Portfolio
    Development Project     No. T-6506-RU, January 26, 1995.
 3. Loan Agreement 3844-RU dated July 7, 1995 for the Portfolio Development Project.
 4. QAG assessment of the quality of the project supervision dated November 14, 2001.


  QAG ASSESSMENT ON PDL.doc




                                              - 35 -

- 36 -

