Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3844 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                      (Portfolio Development Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 7, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3844 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1995, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
Page  2
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Center" means the Borrower's Federal Center for
Project Finance and Technical Assistance, established on April
4, 1994 pursuant to Government Ordinance 277;
      (b)   "Sub-project" means a particular study or project
selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (d)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 28, 1994 and
January 25, 1995 between the Borrower and the Bank.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of forty million dollars
($40,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
                (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                      ending on the date immediately preceding
                      each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                      Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                      Period in which this Agreement is signed.
               (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                      cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
                      and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
                      the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn
                      down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                      borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank
                      has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                      investments; and (B) loans which may be made
                      by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                      interest rates determined otherwise than as
                      provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
              (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                      second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
    amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
    time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
    Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
    of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
    the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
    amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
    calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
    Period."
          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
    Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
    commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
    calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  4
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, technical and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
Page  5
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Ilyinka Street 9
          103009 Moscow
          Russian Federation
                                        Telex:
                                          112008
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                By /s/  Yuli Vorontsov
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  6
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated             % of
                               (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods under                    2,000,000        100% of foreign
    Part A of                                       expenditures,
    the Project                                     100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 70%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2) Technical                     21,500,000        100%
    assistance
    and training
    under Part A
    of the Project
(3) Works under                    1,500,000        100% of foreign
    Part A of                                       expenditures and
    the Project                                     70% of local
                                                    expenditures
(4) Goods under                    4,500,000        100% of foreign
    Part B of                                       expenditures,
    the Project                                     100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 70%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(5) Technical                      3,500,000        100%
    Assistance
    and training
    under Part B
    of the Project
(6) Technical                      3,000,000        100%
    Assistance
    and training
    under Part C
    of the Project
(7) Works under                    3,500,000        100% of foreign
Page  7
    Part C of the                                   expenditures and
    Project                                         70% of local
                                                    expenditures
(8) Refunding of                     500,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
                                  __________
        TOTAL                     40,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures."
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) developing sound proposals for future projects suitable for
Bank financing; (ii) strengthening capacity to coordinate and
manage the flow of external assistance; (iii) improving the
implementation capabilities of local institutions involved in
the execution of projects; and (iv) developing the local
consulting industry.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Fund for Project Preparation Activities
1.  Establishment and operation of a fund for the financing and
carrying out of preparatory activities for future projects for
which Bank financing has been or is expected to be requested.
2.  Pilot projects related to project preparatory activities as
described in Part A.1 above.
Part B:   Strengthening of Foreign Assistance Management and
          Coordination
    Improving the institutional and operational capability of
the Center and other designated government organizations to
manage and coordinate externally financed activities through
the acquisition of equipment, employment of consultants and the
provision of training, including study tours.
Part C:   Business Opportunities Bureau
1.  Establishment of a business opportunities bureau, carrying
out of business outreach programs, including seminars, to
provide local firms advice and training on opportunities and
Page  8
requirements for competing for externally financed contracts
and establishment of a database on enterprises with a potential
interest in participating in the bidding procedures under such
contracts.
2.  Refurbishment of premises of the business opportunities
bureau.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning July 15, 2000
    through July 15, 2011                           1,665,000
On January 15, 2012                                 1,705,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable
                                  to the Loan on the day of
                                  prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
Page  9
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures.
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Russian Federation may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract and up to an
Page  10
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract and up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $500,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
3.  Goods which the Bank agrees: (a) are of a proprietary
nature; (b) the timely supply thereof is critical for efficient
project execution; or (c) need to be compatible with other
installed equipment, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $500,000, may be purchased from suppliers on
the basis of negotiated contracts pursuant to procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.  (a)   Subject to the provision of paragraph 4(b) below, works
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
    (b)   Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $800,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three contractors, eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect: (i) to each contract awarded in
accordance with Parts A and C.3; and (ii) the first two
contracts awarded in accordance with Parts C.1, C.2. and C.4,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  11
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall, or shall cause its department or agency
responsible for the execution of a Sub-project to, employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines
requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each for firms
and $50,000 equivalent each for individuals. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts with firms or to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above for individuals and
$100,000 or above for consulting firms.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Center shall be responsible for the overall coordination
of all Project activities. It shall cause all activities under
the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Sub-projects) to be
carried out in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement. For this purpose, the Borrower shall establish and
monitor arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for ensuring
effective coordination among the departments and agencies of
the Borrower involved in the implementation of the Project.
2.  The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method of
implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of
proceeds of the Loan shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.
Criteria for Sub-project Eligibility
3.  A Sub-project shall be one of the following:
    (a)   under Part A of the Project, preparatory activities,
including consultants' services, goods and rehabilitation works
needed to carry out such activities, for projects for which
financing by the Bank, under loans made or to be made by the
Bank other than the Loan, has been or is expected to be
requested;
    (b)   under Part B of the Project: (i) a program to
strengthen the capacity and capability of institutions in the
Russian Federation for project planning and implementation and
economic development, including, inter alia, training and
overseas study tours and the acquisition of equipment; and (ii)
a program for overall development of the administration and
management of technical and financial assistance; and
    (c)   under Part C of the Project: (i) the refurbishment of
Page  12
Center premises which house the business opportunities bureau;
(ii) development of a data base on enterprises with a potential
interest in bidding in externally financed projects; (iii)
business outreach, including information and marketing
programs; or (iv) training programs on procurement procedures
for interested local firms.
4.  A Sub-project shall have no equally suitable financing
available from other external financing agencies.
Sub-project proposals
5.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
submit, for each Sub-project, the following to the Bank for its
approval:
    (a)   a description of the studies and work to be carried out
in connection with the proposed Sub-project, including a time
schedule for, the purposes and objectives of, and the benefits
expected from, such Sub-project;
    (b)   the proposed selection procedures, qualifications,
terms of reference and duration of service for any consultants
to be engaged for the purposes of the proposed Sub-project;
    (c)   a description of the role of the department or agency
or personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the
execution of the proposed Sub-project and counterpart staff, if
any, to be supplied by the Borrower;
    (d)   a general description of the arrangements to be made by
the executing agencies for the provision of office space,
secretariat facilities, transportation and other operational
facilities required for the Sub-project to proceed efficiently;
    (e)   estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed Sub-
project broken down by major items and showing amounts to be
financed by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Loan,
respectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
    (f)   measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs 6 (b)
and (c) below.
6.  Consultants
    (a)   Consultants shall be employed as provided in Section II
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (b)   The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable measures to facilitate the work of consultants in
the performance of their services for the Project and make
available to them all information relevant to the Sub-project
concerned.
    (c)   The Borrower shall not permit the amendment or waiver
of any of the terms and conditions of employment of consultants
employed for any Sub-project, or the grant of any material
extension of time or any approval of sub-contracts or
modifications thereof, or the agreement to substitute personnel
of such consultants, without prior agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Bank if it proposes to suspend payments under or terminate any
contract with such consultants.
    (d)   The Borrower shall cause the consultants employed for
the Project promptly to furnish to the Bank copies of the
documents prepared by them for the Project, including reports
and draft thereof, in such number as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
    (e)   The Borrower shall establish arrangements and
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for supervising and
directing the work of any consultants employed for Sub-projects
and reviewing the reports and recommendations of such
Page  13
consultants.
7.  The Borrower shall prepare, under guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, without limitation in the
provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions,
semi-annual progress reports on the carrying out of the
Project, to be provided to the Bank by March 31 and September
30 in each year, for the periods ending December 31 and June
30, respectively.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be
Page  14
                withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  15
