Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15168
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA-BISSAU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1517-GUB)
SECOND TECHNICAI. ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1935-GUB)
DECEMBER 8, 1995
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (PG)
EXCHANGE RATE: PG/US$'
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    1993
127  1 176    239    851  1 1363 1 1987   2509   4959   8656   11464
EXCHANGE RATE: US$/SDR'
1984  11985    1986    1987 11988  11989    1990  [1991  11992            1993
Jue        1.0312   .9983    1.1776   1.2780  1.3106   1.2464 [ 13239   1.3145 1 1.4312    1.4036
DeCkc   .9802     1.0984   1.2232   1.4187  1.3457   1.3142   1.4227   1.4304   1.3750    1.3735
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
BNG           Banco Nacional da Guine-Bissau (National Bank of
Guinea-Bissau)
GUB           Guinea-Bissau
IMF           International Monetary Fund
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAC I         Structural Adjustment Credit, Credit 1798-GUB
SAC II        Second Structural Adjustment Credit, Credit 2019-GUB
SAP           Structural Adjustment Program
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SEPAECI    Secretario de Estado da Presidencia para os Assuntos
Economicos e Coopera,do Internacional (State Secretariat
for Economic Affairs and International Cooperation)
TA I          First Technical Assistance Project
TA II         Second Technical Assistance Project
UGPAT         Unidade de Gestao do Projecto de Assistencia Tecnica
(Project Management Unit in Guinea-Bissau)
UMOA          Union Monetaire de l'Ouest Afrique (Western Africa
Monetary Union)
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
End-of-period



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                         December 8, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report (PCR) on Guinea-Bissau-Technical Assistance Project &
Second Technical Assistance Project (C1517-GUB; C1935-GUB)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Guinea-Bissau Technical Assistance (TA
I & TA 11) Projects (Credit 1517-GUB, approved in FY85 and closed in FY89; Credit 1935-GUB,
approved in FY88 and closed in FY94) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower 's
evaluations of TA I & TA 11 are included in Part II of the PCR.
These projects sought to assist the Government in preparing and implementing Bank-supported
adjustment programs and strengthening key economic ministries. TA I (US$6.0 million) assisted in the
formulation and implementation of the economic reform program supported by IDA through a structural
adjustment credit (SAC), approved in FY87. The objectives pursued through TA I included: (i)
strengthening the macroeconomic management capability of key economic ministries; (ii) strengthening
the operational capacity of line ministries, and (iii) developing a sound institutional framework in newly
created ministries and agencies.
The project had a positive but limited short-run impact on public policy dialogue within the central
government. Little progress was made, however, in improving management of state enterprises and civil
service reform. The civil service census, redraft of civil service statutes and the review of state
enterprises contemplated under TA I, were completed with assistance from TA II. Also, the TA I credit
did not contribute to the formulation of a feasible project design for SAC. In view of these failings, the
TA I project's outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. The institutional development impact is rated as
negligible and its sustainability as unlikely.
The TA II credit (US$9.7 million) sought to further strengthen technical and management
capabilities of key economic agencies to support the structural adjustment program. TA II also suffered
implementation delays but succeeded in meeting, at least partly, several of its objectives. TA II made a
beginning in upgrading public sector management skills, but broader civil service reforms, to develop
long term internal capability for training and retaining staff, were not implemented. Restructuring of
management of state enterprises, public investment programming and project monitoring and evaluation
objectives were only partially achieved. Contemplated studies on investment incentives and
consequences of entry in Western African Monetary Union were also not completed. Thus, the project
outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory. The institutional development impact is rated as modest and
the project sustainability as unlikely.
These projects suggest the following lessons: (i) the rationale for the provision of technical
assistance and its specific objectives should be clearly defined from the outset. Without clearly defined
objectives, effectiveness is difficult to measure; and (ii) project design should be in line with the
borrower's implementation capacity.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
PREFACE ..................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..................................................                                iii
PART I-PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  . ...................
A.  PROJECT  IDENTITY ..................................................I
B.  BACKGROUND  TO  IDA'S INVOLVEMENT .............................................                     1
C    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION  ......................................... 3
D    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .........................................  6
E. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ..................................................8
F.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ..................................................9
G.  IDA  PERFORMANCE ...................................................9
H.  BORROWER  PERFORMANCE .................................................                           10
I.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................                           10
J.   FUTURE OPERATION .................................................                               12
K.  KEY  LESSONS LEARNED .................................................                            12
PART 1I-PROJECT REVIEW
FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .................................................   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.



PART III-STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................... ................... 19
Table 1.A       Summary of Assessments
for the Technical Assistance Project (TA I) ............................... 20
Table 1.B.      Summary of Assessments for
the Second Technical Assistance Project (TA 1 1) .21
Table 2.   Related IDA Credits .22
Table 3.A.      Project Timetable
for the Technical Assistance Project (TA 1) .23
Table 3.B.      Project Timetable
for the Second Technical Assistance Project (TA 11) .23
Table 4.A.      Credit Disbursements for the
Technical Assistance Project (TA I): Cumulative,
Estimated and Actual .24
Table 4.B.      Credit Disbursements for the
Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II):
Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .24
Table 5.A.      Key Indicators for Project Implementation,
Technical Assistance Project (TA I) .25
Table 5.B.      Key Indicators for Project Implementation,
Second Technical Assistance Project (TA I) .27
Table 6.A.      Studies Included in the Technical Assistance Project (TA I) .28
Table 6.B.      Studies Included in the Second Technical
Assistance Project (TA II) .28
Table 7.A.      Project Costs, Technical Assistance Project (TA I) .29
Table 7.B.      Project Costs, Second Technical Assistance Project (TA 11) .29
Table 8.A.      Project Financing, Technical Assistance Project (TA I) .30
Table 8.B.      Project Financing, Second Technical Assistance Project (TA 11) . 30
Table 9.A.      Status of Legal Covenants, Technical Assistance Project (TA I) . 31
Table 9.B.      Status of Legal Covenants,
Second Technical Assistance Project (TA I) .34
Table IO.A.     IDA Resources-
Staff Inputs, Technical Assistance Project (TA 1) .36
Table lO.B.     IDA Resources-
Staff Inputs, Second Technical Assistance Project (TA  1) .36
Table 11.A.     IDA Resources-Missions, Technical Assistance Project (TA 1) .    37
Table 1 1 .B.   IDA Resources-
Missions, Second Technical Assistance Project (TA 11) .38



PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First and Second Technical Assistance
Projects (Credits 1517-GUB and 1935-GUB) in Guinea-Bissau.  The first Technical
Assistance Project (TA I) was approved on September 9, 1984 for an amount of SDR 6.0
million (US$6.0 million equivalent). It was closed on schedule on December 31, 1988, and
the final disbursement was made in August 1989, at which time the undisbursed amount of
SDR 21,569.65 was canceled.
The Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II) was approved on June 23, 1988 for SDR
7.0 million (US$9.7 million equivalent). It closed on December 31, 1993, nine months later
than the original closing date of March 31, 1993. The final disbursement was made in April
1994 and the undisbursed balance of SDR 81.89 was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by Jennifer Edwards (AF5CO) and Katerina Taiganides (consultant)
and reviewed by Birger Fredriksen, Chief, Country Operations Division and Emmerich
Schebeck, Project Adviser, Western Africa Department.
Preparation of this PCR was based on documentation in the project files, including: the
President's Reports, Development Credit Agreements, Project Supervision Reports,
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA memoranda, audit reports,
progress reports, and interviews of IDA staff involved. The borrower contributed to the
preparation of the PCR by submitting its evaluation of the project's execution and
achievements.
This PCR covers the evaluation of the implementation of two technical assistance credits,
for the following reasons: TA I, followed closely by TA II, initiated IDA's long-term
technical assistance strategy in macroeconomic management for Guinea-Bissau. In 1988,
when TA I closed, the preparation of formal project completion reports for technical
assistance projects was not obligatory. Meanwhile, TA II started up before TA I was
closed.  Since this project was considered a continuation of the original technical
assistance  strategy,  this  PCR   provides  an  evaluation  of  both  projects.






iii
The Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Project Completion Report
First and Second Technical Assistance Projects
(Credits 1517-GUB and 1935-GUB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background to IDA's Involvement
Following independence in 1974, Guinea-Bissau faced the task of rebuilding from
the devastation of a lengthy liberation war which had decimated and dislocated the
country's human resources, destroyed an important part of the economic infrastructure, and
severely reduced agricultural production. Today it remains among the poorest countries in
the world with a per capita income of US$220 and life expectancy of under 40 years. The
economy is dominated by a traditional rural sector which is oriented towards subsistence
farming. In the first years after independence, this sector was neglected and the economy
further deteriorated under a rigidly centralized system.
Faced with a deteriorating economic situation, in 1983, the Government initiated an
economic recovery progran, defining a market-oriented and agriculture-based medium-
term development strategy in three stages: financial stabilization, economic recovery, and
self-sustained growth. The stabilization program was designed to correct internal and
external price distortions, shift the urban-rural terms of trade in favor of the rural sector, and
improve the efficiency in the management of public sector resources. At this time a free-
standing technical assistance project was requested from IDA to assist the authorities in the
management of the economic recovery program. It was in this context that TA I was
developed; preparation began in January 1983 and the project was approved in September
1984. In 1987 the Government embarked on the first phase (1987-89) of its structural
2
adjustment program  which concentrated on stabilizing the economy by removing the most
critical macroeconomic distortions and improving public sector management. This program
proceeded more or less on schedule, albeit with limited impact on longer-term
sustainability.
In 1988, with the design of the second phase (1989-91) of adjustment underway, and
funds from TA I fully committed, the Government requested a continuation of the technical
and material support which had been started under TA 1. A Second Technical Assistance
Project (TA II) was therefore prepared during the last phase of implementation of TA I
(closed on schedule in December 1988). TA II was approved in June 1988. The second
phase of the adjustment program, supported by a Second Structural Adjustment Credit3,
2 This program was supported by the World Bank through a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1798-GUB,
approved April 27, 1987), a Special African Facility (A-26-GUB), an SAF arrangement with the IMF and
balance of payments support from other donors.
3 Credit 2019-GUB, approved April 25, 1989, and related Dutch Grant, approved February 8, 1990).



iv
aimed at: (a) promoting greater economic stability; (b) generating diversified growth; (c)
changing the role of government from involvement in productive sectors to the provision of
assorted public services; and (d) reducing the external debt burden to manageable
proportions. Overall the objectives of SAC II were achieved, though with considerable
delays in the release of the third tranche (almost 24 months behind schedule) due largely to
periods of weak management of fiscal and credit policies and an ambivalence in tackling
politically difficult issues, especially during the lead up to the first multi-party elections
which were held in July 1994.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the first Technical Assistance project (TA I) were to assist the
Government to strengthen the macroeconomic capability of key economic ministries,
strengthen the operational capacity of other ministries and develop a sound institutional
framework in the newly created ministries and agencies.  It would thus assist the
Government in the formulation and implementation of the economic recovery program (cf.
TA I President's Report of August 17. 1984, para. 25). These objectives were to be
achieved through the resolution of a wide variety of institutional, physical and human
resource deficiencies which threatened the economic stabilization process.
About 500 staff-months of resident advisers, short-term consultants for studies,
equipment, materials and overseas scholarships were provided. Although the transfer of
skills to build up local capacity was seen as important, the focus of TA I was on setting up
the institutional framework needed for economic management. Formal training programs
were therefore deferred. However, TA I was designed to be flexible enough to allow for the
Borrower to play an increasing part in implementation as its capacity and experience grew.
TA II had the dual objectives of continuing support, through substitution technical
assistance, to the Government's economic recovery and structural adjustment programs
initiated under TA I, and establishing a sustainable domestic capacity within the key
economic ministries through a comprehensive training program and skills transfer through
on-the-job training. About 481 staff-months of resident advisers, short-term consultants for
studies, and training programs were provided in addition to equipment, materials and
seminars abroad.
The timing of TA II was critical to ensure continuity in IDA's assistance efforts and
to secure benefits that were already evident from the first project (e.g. the establishment of
economic and public investment programming, hitherto unknown in Guinea-Bissau), as
well as to support the reforms to be undertaken by the Government in its second phase of
adjustment.
Implementation Experience and Results
TA I closed on schedule and was almost totally disbursed (SDR 21,569.65 was
canceled). TA II closed nine months later than originally scheduled and was also almost
totally disbursed (SDR 81.89 was canceled).  Implementation of both projects was



v
monitored in-country by a project unit (UGPAT). Due to the lack of Borrower capacity,
this unit was initially managed by a foreign consulting firm. Later, under TA II. project
management was transferred to local consultants who had been trained by the expatriate
consulting firm. Increased familiarity on the part of the project unit and the Borrower with
World Bank policies and procedures led to fewer disbursement problems and to smoother
implementation.
Lack of sufficiently experienced counterparts to the expatriate TA was a major
constraint in the implementation of TA I. This also hindered any sustainable institutional
development during this project.  Low Borrower capacity also resulted in inadequate
supervision of the expatriate TA. and as a result, these resources were not always optimally
utilized. Nevertheless some improvements in institutional capacity development were
achieved towards the end of the project. This helped to enhance the implementation of TA
II as more qualified counterparts were able to participate in project activities. Terms of
reference for consultants, which were now engaged primarily on short-term assignments,
included specific requirements for skills transfer and an evaluation of the counterpart's
progress. IDA supervision missions which were undertaken on average every 4-6 months,
ensured that disbursements and project activities were able to progress with minimal delays.
Flexibility in project design played an important role in allowing the Borrower to fulfill
tranche conditions for the two adjustment credits supported through these two TA projects.
Results. Although ambitious in design, TA I correctly responded to the complexity
of tasks which had to be accomplished by the Borrower to implement its economic recovery
and initiate its structural adjustment program. Its primary objective was achieved by using
expatriate assistance (about 500 staffmonths) to substitute for the weak capacity of the
Borrower. Some training programs to upgrade the Borrower's policy analysis capacity were
initiated. The external Fellowship program results were less than had been expected because
student progress was difficult to monitor from a distance, students faced language and cultural
difficulties which meant they were unable to concentrate on their studies and in the end only
one out of the original five completed the degree program.
TA II was successful in improving the Borrower's ability to design and manage its
economic reform programs and run its day-to-day operations, particularly with respect to
macroeconomic and financial planning and analysis (about 450 staffmonths).  More
importantly, the institutional development objective was globally achieved. A start was
made in developing domestic capacity within targeted institutions (such as the Central
Bank, the Ministry of Finance) enabling them to assume responsibility for a wide range of
activities, critical for improved economic performance and for laying the foundations for
sustainable growth. A new (the first) commercial bank opened for business in March 1991.
partly owned by the Government, local entrepreneurs and two Portuguese banks (the
Government's share represented by the rehabilitated building, financed through TA II). The
Pilot Scheme to finance civil service housing never materialized because prevailing interest
rates for mortgage lending were too high to make the scheme affordable.



vi
Sustainability
While some progress can be said to have been made towards sustainability in the
medium term, neither TA I nor TA II's achievements can be considered fully sustainable
since Guinea-Bissau will continue to require varying levels of expatriate technical
assistance for some time to come.
The comprehensive in-country training programs helped strengthen considerably the
institutional capacity of the Borrower to manage more efficiently its economy with less
external assistance. This will allow the Borrower to concentrate on new areas such as
promoting private sector development, which constitute an important step towards
achieving sustainable economic growth. In addition, the linkage of TA I and TA II to the
third IDA technical assistance operation [Economic Management Project (Credit 2342-
GUB, approved in January 1992)], also serves to enhance the projects' sustainability as
important capacity-building activities will continue to receive financing well into the
medium-term.
Lessons Learned
The following lessons may be drawn from the experience of these two projects:
(a) The rationale for the provision of technical assistance and the definition of
what TA is intended to achieve should be clearly defined from the outset. Technical
assistance is a means of either -- under exceptional circumstances such as those faced by
Guinea-Bissau when TA I was prepared -- substituting the skills of the borrower or
developing existing local skills. The rationale for substituting the skills of the Borrower
was clearly presented and understood for both projects. Nevertheless, future project design
should keep in mind that the absence of a Borrower-owned capacity building strategy (as in
the case of both TA I and II) makes progress towards sustainability difficult, and without
clear objectives, effectiveness is hard to measure.
(b) Project design should be in line with the Borrower's implementation
capacity. The Borrower's weak institutional capacity was recognized during project design
which correctly allowed for a strong input of expatriate assistance to prepare and manage
the project. The flexible design of both TA projects, however, permitted the Borrower to
make adjustments in financing priorities, particularly when other donors' financing failed to
materialize. The danger of turning both these projects into slush funds was avoided through
close and frequent Bank supervision missions and a solid, well managed project unit.
(c) Acceptable work environment. Unsuitable working conditions and poor
salaries mean that counterparts are not motivated to work, and much less, to learn from
expatriate TA. Even if counterparts do learn, they leave at the first opportunity, thereby
undermining the project's sustainability. This was already apparent towards the end of TA
II, although both projects supplied computers, materials and basic equipment which went
some way to alleviate the working conditions. In cases where the work environment is
poor, measures to address these conditions, including the establishment of a "living wage"



vii
is a necessary condition for retaining the capacity created through an institutional
development project. Thus, even in cases where such a project is successful in developing
local capacity during its implementation, the ability of the country to maintain this capacity
beyond the closure of the project depends on a number of institutional and economic factors
which can normally not be addressed through a free-standing TA project. In the case of
Guinea-Bissau the problem of low wages in the civil service will continue to jeopardize any
attempts at institutional development and long-terrn sustainability if it is not tackled within
a Borrower-owned capacity building strategy which includes a commitment to implement a
serious reform of the public service salary and benefits structure.






The Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Project Completion Report
First and Second Technical Assistance Projects
(Credits 1517-GUB and 1935-GUB)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Identity
Name:                           Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number and amount:       Cr. 1517-GUB of SDR 6.0 million
Approved:                       September 11, 1984
Effectiveness Date:             December 21, 1984
Date closed:                    December 31, 1988
RVP Unit:                       Africa Region
Country:                        Guinea-Bissau
Sector:                         Economic Management
Name:                           Second Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number and amount:       Cr. 1935-GUB of SDR 7.0 million
Approved:                       June 23, 1988
Effectiveness Date:             October 5, 1988
Closing Date:                   December 31, 1993
RVP Unit:                       Africa Region
Country:  -                     Guinea-Bissau
Sector:                         Economic Management
B.    Background to IDA's Involvement
1.    GeneraL Guinea-Bissau, a small country of about a million people, is one of the
poorest countries in the world. Per capita income is US$220 and the social indicators are
among the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa. After a protracted and economically devastating
liberation war, the country gained independence in 1974. After independence Guinea-
Bissau was governed under a one-party political system until July 1994, when the first
multi-party elections took place.
2.    The economy has a large traditional rural sector, oriented toward subsistence
farming. Agriculture, fisheries and forestry account for some 90% of total employment and
50% of GDP. Marketed output is largely confined to export crops, primarily cashew nuts,
groundnuts and palm kernels. Cashews account for about 40% of total exports; earnings
from fish exports and fishing licenses are the second largest source of export revenues.
Production of rice, the main food crop, has increased by more than 10% per year since



2
1983, largely reflecting improved incentives. Notwithstanding this, rice imports remain
high, encouraged, until early 1994, by a multiple exchange rate system and the overvalued
FCFA in neighboring Senegal.
3.    Policy Reforms. Following independence, economic policies neglected agriculture,
while large fiscal imbalances financed by the Central Bank fueled inflation. In 1983, faced
with a deteriorating economic situation, the Government initiated in 1983 a recovery
program, defining a market-oriented and agriculture-based medium term development
strategy in three phases: financial stabilization. economic recovery and self-sustained
growth. The stabilization program of 1983 was designed to correct internal and external
price distortions, shift the urban-rural terms of trade in favor of the rural sector and improve
efficiency in the management of public resources. After a hesitant start to the recovery
program, in 1987 the Government renewed its efforts to revitalize the economy, and began
implementing the first phase of a structural adjustment program (1987-89). This program
was supported by the World Bank through a Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1798-
GUB, approved April 28, 1987) and the Special African Facility (SFA-26-GUB). At the
same time, the IMF approved a SAF program and other donors also provided BOP support.
SAC I aimed, first, to stabilize the economy by removing the most critical macroeconomic
distortions and restoring profitability to the agricultural sector through the introduction of
prudent fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies complemented by price and trade
liberalization measures; and, second, to improve public sector management. The program
proceeded more or less on schedule, albeit with limited impact on longer-term
sustainability.
4.    The second phase of adjustment (1989-91), supported by a Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (Credit 2019-GUB, approved April 25, 1989), aimed at: (a) promoting
greater economic stability; (b) generating diversified growth; (c) changing the role of
government from involvement in productive sectors to the provision of assorted public
services; and (d) reducing the external debt burden to manageable proportions. Overall,
these objectives were achieved, though with considerable delays as the last tranche was
released almost 24 months after schedule due to recurring implementation problems,
notably erratic fiscal and credit policies. These problems were attributable in part to overly
ambitious and complex programs given the country's limited administrative capacity and
institutional weaknesses; ambivalence in tackling politically difficult issues, such as the
progressive divestiture of the state enterprise sector; and the inability to undertake a
profound administrative reform in the period leading up to the country's first multi-party
elections in 1994.
5.    Technical Assistance. Given the lack of Government capacity to manage economic
and financial reforms and to gather and analyze data on the economy, technical assistance
was needed to perform these task on a substitution basis. However, costs on a per capita



3
basis were very high4. In general, these shortcomings can be attributed to the following
factors: (a) the lack of sufficiently experienced public employees with training in
macroeconomic management in senior positions in Government, thus leading to the
constant need for expatriate technical advisors; and (b) the lack of junior advisors in
technical positions, to manage tasks such as the collection and management of
macroeconomic and debt data. The first and second TA projects provided the Government
with the technical and human resources to strengthen its macroeconomic management
capacity and to develop a sound institutional framework which would eventually lead to
economic recovery, financial stabilization and sustained growth.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
6.    Objectives of TA 1. The objectives of the first Technical Assistance project (TA I)
were to support the Government's economic recovery and structural adjustment programs
(1984-89), strengthen key ministries in critical areas of economic management, initiate a
banking sector reform and begin to develop a sound institutional framework within the
context of the newly defined market-oriented and agriculture-based development strategy.
These objectives were to be achieved through the resolution of a wide variety of
institutional, physical and human resource deficiencies which threatened the economic
stabilization process.
7.    Description. TA I consisted of six major components:
(i) Provision of expatriate assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Government to
implement its economic stabilization program and introduce market-oriented
economic management concepts in key economic ministries, the National Bank and
the Office of the President;
(ii) Studies to (a) review the status of the state enterprise sector, including
preparation of an analysis of the institutions, controls, policies and other factors
affecting the efficient management of these enterprises, together with a plan for
divestiture; and (b) develop alternatives to the existing agricultural pricing system;
(iii) Banking sector reform involving the separation of commercial banking
activities from that of the central bank;
(iv) Fellowships for graduate studies abroad in economics and business
administration;
(v) Housing for resident advisors and consultants considered essential to attract
expatriate staff to work in Bissau; and
4In 1987, $30 per capita compared with between $5 and $12 for Guinea and Burkina Faso, respectively,
for the same period, see "Technical Cooperation. Issues and Concerns for Improving Effectiveness",
UNPAAERD, Inter-Agency Task Force, World Bank/UNDP/DAC; September 1989.



4
(vi) Establishment of a permanent Training and Documentation Center in the
Ministry of Finance.
8.     Objectives of TA II. TA II had the dual objectives of continued support, through
substitution TA. to the Government's economic recovery and structural adjustment
programs, initiated under TA I, and of strengthening the Borrower's weak institutional
capacity through a comprehensive training program and skills transfer through on-the-job
training5.
9.     Description. TA II included the following major components:
(i) Developing analytical and planning capabilities of the State Secretariat of the
Presidency for Economic Affairs and International Cooperation; the Ministry of
Finance; Ministry of Planning; Ministry of Natural Resources and Industry;
Ministry of Civil Service, and Labor and Social Security; and the National Bank;
(ii)  Strengthening   macroeconomic   management  capabilities  through   the
development of more effective mechanisms for setting priorities, allocating
resources and managing the Government's policies;
(iii) Upgrading, through on- and off-the-job training, the managerial, administrative,
and technical skills of Government personnel;
(iv) A pilot component to provide financial assistance for staff housing, in an effort
to attract and retain high-caliber senior management and technical civil servants6;
and
(v) The rehabilitation of an existing building to house a new commercial bank which
would represent the Government's share in the equity of the new bank.
10.    Evaluation of Project Objectives.  Recognizing the scarcity of local expertise and
the skills gap that existed, TA I's main objective was to provide operational support to the
Government to substitute the missing skills. At the time the project was designed, this was
clearly presented and understood by both parties and was judged appropriate for the
5      The preparation and implementation of TA 11 contributed directly to the preparation of SAC II,
which was appraised in October 1988. Achievement of the objectives of SAC 11 (para. 4) required
strengthening of the Government's capacity in the of areas macroeconomic management, fiscal reform,
public enterprise reform, public investment program execution and evaluation and civil service reform, all
of which were being supported under TA 11.
6    This component later proved not to be feasible because of the high interest rates the banks were required to apply
in the context of the monetary policies in effect at the time; these funds were reallocated for designing a management
information system in the Central Bank, which is currently being installed under the Economic Management Project (Cr.
2342-GUB).



5
country's level of development and consistent with the Government's commitment to
economic adjustment and stabilization.  The secondary objective, that of longer-term
resolution of the wide variety of institutional, physical, and human resource deficiencies.
which had jeopardized the economic stabilization process, was more ambitious and could
not be achieved within the timeframe of the project. However, given the shortage of
macroeconomic management capacity and the low level of human resource skills at the time
of project preparation, it was appropriate for the project to initiate the institutional
strengthening process. It was also recognized that this project was not to be a one-time
panacea for resolving the institutional and managerial problems of the Borrower, but rather
the first step in a coordinated longer-term technical assistance strategy supported by IDA
and other donors.
11.   TA II's operational support objective was designed to ensure that the second phase
(1989-91) of the Borrower's adjustment process would not falter. Its other objective of
institutional strengthening was clearly aimed at building local capacity. These objectives
were an integral part of IDA's country assistance strategy and consistent with the country's
development priorities. As such, these objectives were appropriate and well-timed. The
Borrower was able to place more emphasis on upgrading its own long-term capacity to
manage economic and financial issues. Expatriate assistance was still required but by now
the Borrower was able to recruit more selectively, and monitor and maintain, higher-quality
staff to manage its day-to-day operations.
12.   Evaluation of Project Design.   Although ambitious in design, TA I correctly
responded to the complexity of the tasks which had to be accomplished for the Borrower to
implement its 1984-89 economic recovery and initiate its structural adjustment program.
The policy support objective was addressed by providing a variety of consultancies, studies,
and equipment which the Borrower was able to allocate as its technical assistance needs and
priorities changed during implementation. The severe lack of local capabilities, identified
as a constraint on the Borrower's ability to reach the objectives of the project, was
addressed in two ways: first, financing was included in the PPF for an expatriate consulting
firm to assist both in project preparation and in setting up the project coordination unit.
Second, the project included substitute technical assistance for operational support, as well
as short-term  TA for studies and discrete tasks (approximately 500 staffmonths).  In
addition, the critical shortage of adequate housing and insufficient or poor hotel
accommodation and the difficulties this posed in attracting suitably qualified consultants.
was recognized as a major constraint on achieving project objectives and a component was
included in the project to build eight houses. Although some financing was included for
training, the only agency to benefit from any longer-term capacity building effort was the
National Bank; all other serious attempts at longer-term institutional capacity building was
left for future projects. No performance indicators were set and as project objectives were
difficult to quantify, it was difficult to monitor project results with any accuracy.
13.   TA 11 continued the support initiated under TA I to help the Borrower maintain and
deepen the stabilization process and prepare and implement the second stage (1989-91) of
the structural adjustment program  (SAP).  Because the Borrower's weak institutional



6
capacity was better understood, TA II's design included comprehensive in-country training
programs, better tailored to the specific needs of key economic agencies with provision for
pre-screening of candidates for training. Closer attention was also paid to the transfer of
skills by on-the-job training and systematic counterpart performance evaluation. Again, TA
II's project description was broad enough to allow adjustment to important changes in the
Borrower's priorities. This was evident particularly with regard to the financing of activities
crucial to the success of the reform process for which financial support. originally promised
by other donors, was not supplied in a timely manner. Flexibility in project design played
an important role in ensuring that financing was available to aid the Borrower in fulfilling
tranche release conditions for SAC II (e.g. to meet the conditionality on civil service
reform, financing -- originally promised by a donor -- was made available under TA 11 for
the completion of the civil service census and the drafting of the civil service statutes).
Project design also allowed for more short-term technical assistance as opposed to the
resident advisers financed under TA I.
14.   Responsibility for project implementation. The Governor of the National Bank was
delegated to coordinate implementation of both TA I and II. To assist him in the daily
project administration a project unit, Unidade de Gestdo de Projecto de Assistencia Tecnica
(UGPAT), was set up initially managed by an expatriate consulting firm. This unit
administered the two projects efficiently and no undue delays in procurement or
disbursements were experienced. Management of this unit passed to a local consultant in
September 1992. The consultant brought TA II to a successful completion and is now
managing the implementation of the ongoing Economic Management Project (Cr. 2342-
GUB).
15.   Risks. The following risks were identified during preparation of the two TA
projects: (i) inability to attract qualified technical assistance for operational support which
was heightened by the difficult working and living conditions prevailing in Bissau; and (ii)
lack of sufficiently qualified counterparts and/or insufficient local capacity. The risk of not
being able to attract qualified technical staff did not materialize. The difficult working and
living conditions were mitigated by including in the project office equipment and supplies
as well as the construction of housing for expatriate staff. The risk of insufficiently
qualified counterparts and/or insufficient local capacity was confirmed and as a result, TA
II financed comprehensive in-country training programs which were better tailored to
respond to the Borrower's needs.
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
16.   The evaluation of the achievement of project objectives covers both projects as TA II
was a clear continuation of TA 1.
17.   Strengthening thte operational capacity of key economic ministries and developing
a sound institutional framework in newly created ministries and agencies. The main
objective of this component was to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to define and



7
implement its structural adjustment program. Both projects provided (i) senior advisers to
the Office of the President, the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Planning and
International Cooperation, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank. the principal
authorities responsible for the management of the economy; and (ii) consultants for
ministries in the critical sectors, such as energy and industry, fisheries, commerce and
public administration.
18.   The impact of the two projects on improving economic management is difficult to
assess in exact terns, especially since performance indicators were not established at the
time of project preparation. Nevertheless, this impact is considered very positive as
demonstrated by factors such as the progressively increasing ability of the Borrower not
only to collect data but also to analyze, monitor and make the necessary adjustments to
maintain economic stability. There is, however, still a long way to go before sufficient
local skills are developed, since the starting point was so low. Another issue that was
touched on only marginally in the two projects, but that continues to have a serious negative
impact on the ability to retain trained staff in public administration, is the abysmally low
civil service salaries. Neither of the two projects addressed this issue seriously. hoping
rather that policies to be implemented under the SAC regarding civil service retrenchment
would allow higher wages to be paid to those remaining in the civil service. This
expectation has not come about to any significant extent.
19.   Studies. A survey of the State Enterprise Sector was funded under TA 1. This
eventually formed the basis for the Government's divestiture program which is still underway.
A study on agricultural pricing policies, also funded by TA I, led to the liberalization of the
Government's producer pricing policy and encouraged increased agricultural production.
Under TA II, a study was undertaken to analyze the effects of introducing a domestic
commercial bank led to the splitting of the National Bank into the Central Bank and the
setting up of a commercial bank with foreign participation. A study on the effects of the
cashew export tax on production was also carried out under TA II and this led to the gradual
decrease in the cashew export tax and to a subsequent increase in cashew exports.
20.   Banking sector reform. This was initiated under TA I -- and culminated under TA
II -- with the initial objective of setting up a single institution to perform all three banking
functions (development, commercial and central). These functions were later separated out
and a proper Central Bank was set up (March 1990). A joint venture commercial bank was
also created at the same time. TA II financed the rehabilitation of an existing building to
house the new commercial bank as part of the Government's equity contribution. Advisors
were provided to the National Bank and the Central Bank to assist in the banking reform
process, strengthen the Economic Studies and Research Department, the Banking
supervision role, Legal Department, as well as personnel administration. Equipment,
materials and specialized training in banking methods, in collaboration with the Bank of
Portugal, were also financed by the two projects.
21.   Training. TA I provided funds for setting up a training and documentation center in
the Ministry of Finance. The center was established in name only. Other more pressing



8
needs for operational support meant that much of the funds for the center were reallocated.
The overseas fellowship program was started up but after some initial success, fell by the
wayside when the students on fellowships failed to report back.  This unfortunate
experience was not repeated in TA II and since then all training was done in-country.
22.   Under TA  II, more attention was given to institutional development.  The
achievement of this objective must be considered partial as the process is still ongoing
under the Economic Management Project. A pool of local staff (about 500) were trained
and are more able to assist in the macroeconomic decision-making process as well as
undertake day-to-day management and analysis of economic and financial data, essential
for monitoring of the SAP. One example of this improved analytical ability was that in
1989 the Borrower was able to develop, with minimum external assistance, its medium term
development strategy which was presented in the Letter of Development Policy for SAC II,
approved by IDA in April of that same year. This same cadre of local expertise went on to
implement the second phase of the SAP (1989-94). Another example of increasing local
capacity is the fact that the expatriate consulting firm which managed both technical
assistance projects was no longer needed for the second half of implementation of TA II
(para. 14).
23.   Housing. The housing constructed under TA I was successful in attracting qualified
expatriate staff to work in Bissau.
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Projects
24.   Although Guinea-Bissau's institutional and technical capacity was limited, and the
design of TA I particularly was ambitious, severe implementation delays were avoided for
both TA I and TA II due to the initial heavy reliance on expatriate technical assistance in
project management. Disbursements were generally satisfactory. No major delays in
effectiveness or closing occurred for either project.
25.   Project Implementation. TA I closed in December 1988. Implementation of TA II
began in April 1989 and it closed in December 1993. nine months after the original closing
date. The extension of the closing date was made to allow the Borrower to fund the unit in
charge of monitoring the Public Investment Program. This was not originally foreseen
under the project; however the expected financing from another donor did not materialized.
Various ministries participated in the implementation of TA II and benefited from its
financing, including the State Secretariat of the Presidency for Economic Affairs and
International Cooperation, the Ministries of Finance, Plan, Natural Resources and Industry,
Civil Service, Labor and Social Security, and the National Bank. Consistent, frequent
supervision from IDA, on average with 4-6 months intervals, played an important part in
maintaining close contact with the Borrower. The increased Borrower commitment to the
institutional strengthening process which was targeted in TA II's training programs also
helped to ease the problems of counterparts for technical assistants. Actual disbursements
for both credits followed the original disbursement estimates closely, and apart from initial



9
teething problems resulting from inexperience with World Bank procedures, no major
problems were encountered.
26.   Factors Affecting Implementation. Under TA I the housing constructed helped in
recruiting high-quality consultants. The commitment of the Borrower to the projects
ensured that actions were taken to remedy implementation bottlenecks or problems. and
increased Borrower experience with World Bank procedures improved implementation.
Consultant performance was satisfactory, but the shortage of skilled counterparts meant
many opportunities for skills transfer were lost.  Under TA  II, implementation was
enhanced by the Borrower's taking a stronger initiative in recruiting appropriately qualified
counterparts and training candidates and by exhibiting a stronger sense of ownership from
the initial phases of project preparation. During preparation of TA II, it was decided to
move away from long-term advisors who, under TA I, had become too closely involved
with the day-to-day activities in the various ministries, and to rccruit more short-term
consultants. This decision could have slowed implementation because of the need to
constantly prepare terms of reference and recruit consultants. However. the improved
ability of the Borrower to manage the project, and monitor the technical assistance led not
only to smoother implementation but also to more effective use of the various consultants.
F.    Project Sustainability
27.   The operational support financed under TA I and II has successfully assisted the
Borrower in designing and implementing its economic recovery and structural adjustment
program. This support has also been important in ensuring that the Borrower could launch
its reform program with appropriate and timely assistance and has acted as the stimulus for
the Borrower to embark on a long-term effort to upgrade its human resources and
management skills, while undergoing adjustment.  Nevertheless, while considerable
progress has been made towards developing a sustainable management capacity in Guinea-
Bissau in the medium term, neither TA I nor TA II's achievements can be considered to
have completed this process and Guinea-Bissau will continue to require varying levels of
expatriate technical assistance for a considerable time to come.
G.   IDA Performance
28.   Project preparation for TA  I took two years from  identification to Credit
effectiveness. Preparation of TA II took less time as the project was identified during
supervision of TA I. As this follow-up project was designed to maintain continuity for the
actions initiated under TA I, and as the objectives of the two projects were largely the same,
the pre-appraisal mission was considered as an appraisal. The period from Negotiations to
Credit effectiveness took a further eight months, due to a delay in publishing the Credit
Agreements in the Official Bulletin.
29.   Throughout project preparation and supervision, IDA's performance on both projects
was satisfactory. Project identification begun at the request of the Borrower, and project



10
activities were developed in close cooperation with the Borrower. The skill mix and
continuity of IDA staff and consultants during preparation ensured that the proposed project
activities and expected impact were consistent with the Borrower's development goals and
IDA's country assistance strategy.
30.   TA II was identified towards the end of TA I and its design incorporated lessons
learned from the predecessor. Although TA II's objectives remained largely the same as
those of TA I, their achievement relied more on the results of capacity building initiatives
and intensive in-country training programs, as opposed to the heavy reliance on substitution
TA which characterized TA I. IDA developed a close relationship with other donor agencies
as donor involvement in Guinea-Bissau by the time of preparation of TA II was much
greater than during preparation of TA I. There was a concerted effort to coordinate
financing among donors and ensure that the design of TA II incorporated only those
activities which were not being financed by other donors. The skill mix of the IDA team
was appropriate as it included the Task Manager, a training specialist, and staff supervising
SAC II, as well as IMF staff inputs.
31.   Supervision missions were carried out with 4-6 month intervals during the life of
both projects, and appropriate evaluations were given in supervision reports. The missions
included an appropriate mix of staff, usually the Task Manager and a training specialist.
SAC supervision missions also contributed technical expertise. Borrower inexperience
caused IDA and the project management consultants to shoulder most of the responsibility
for supervising all aspects of project implementation, including procurement and
disbursement activities. IDA supervision was facilitated by the receipt of regular and
detailed progress reports on project implementation from the project unit (UGPAT). Credit
covenant compliance was satisfactory and there were no major deviations from World Bank
policies and procedures.
32.   Another factor contributing to the satisfactory supervision of the project was the
opening of a resident mission in Bissau in December 1988. This made communication
between IDA and the Borrower, and between IDA and other donor agencies much easier. It
was possible for IDA to react more quickly to changing Borrower priorities or delays in
other donor funding for important activities; thus, IDA's financing flexibility, throughout
TA II, was kept to a maximum and implementation delays for TA II and other Borrower
activities were kept to a minimum.
H.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   Borrower performance under both TA  projects was satisfactory.  Borrower
commitment to the project ensured that implementation proceeded without too many
problems, even though, for TA I, the Borrower was not able to play a significant role in
project preparation. For TA II, the Borrower was able to capitalize on its experience under
TA I and on its improved capacity by taking a stronger role during project preparation and
implementation. During preparation, the Borrower could define more clearly its needs and
assess the suitability of proposed activities and programs to fulfill them. Because it had



11
already implemented the first phase of its structural adjustment program, the Borrower was
also able to spell out more clearly its priorities for the second phase of this program and the
subsequent financing needs to achieve its development goals.
34.   Under TA 1, the Borrower was less conscientious with counterpart staffing. To what
degree this was completely under the Borrower's control is debatable. as a reduction in staff
turnover would have required a full-blown reform of the civil service, an impossible venture
at that time. Under TA II, the Borrower was able to ensure that counterparts were assigned
on a more consistent basis to consultants, and it maximized its use of the newly-trained and
educated staff whose skills had been upgraded under TA I. Reporting on project progress
improved over time as counterparts were being trained. The use of TA funds also became
more focused as the Borrower's ability to define its needs and design programs to fulfill
them improved. Administrative performance under TA II was much improved and no serious
deviations were noted from World Bank policies or procedures or credit covenants. As the
Borrower's experience continued to increase. it was able to take more of the initiative in
discussions with the various donor agencies; it was able to discuss the kind of assistance it
required and negotiate the manner in which this assistance should be provided so as to avoid
delays and overlap. It also played a strong part in evaluating the performance of consultants
and suggesting modifications to terms of reference when necessary.
1.    Assessment of Outcome
35.   The main outcome of TA I was the provision of policy support, and the project
achieved this in a way that ensured a satisfactory development result with only a few
shortcomings. This satisfactory outcome is evidenced in the Borrower's completion of the
first phase of its structural adjustment program and the full disbursement of SAC 1. The
Borrower's improved performance during preparation of TA II, the better availability of
economic data, its improved ownership of IDA-financed projects, and its stronger
participation in the development of donor projects and activities are also evidence of
success. Nevertheless, the outcome of neither project can be considered as sustainable
considering that the country will continue to require significant levels of expatriate
technical assistance well into the next century.
36.   The outcome of TA  II was a mixture of policy support and institutional
development. The first part can be assessed as satisfactory. Evidence of this is the
Borrower's ability to, for the first time, define its own medium terrn development strategy
for financing under IDA's SAC II. The project was successful in the physical establishment
of the new commercial bank, as well as initiating the updating of the Central Bank
management information systems. However, achievement of the second part, that of
capacity building, must be considered as only partially satisfactory. While TA II training
programs upgraded the skills of national counterparts in accounting and macroeconomic
planning and analysis, enabling the Borrower to better manage its day-to-day operations
and monitor the SAP, the development of a sustainable domestic capacity will continue to
need to be addressed under IDA's ongoing Economic Management Project and future ID
projects.



12
J.    Future Operation
37.   IDA's Economic Management Project (Credit 2342-GUB  of US$7 million,
approved March 19, 1992), is the third link in the series of technical assistance projects in
Guinea-Bissau.  These projects formn the basis for executing the country's assistance
strategy which has the longer-term goal of strengthening the Borrower's capacity to
formulate and implement a well-designed and integrated set of economic policies and
reforms. Other IDA investment operations are also focusing on institutional strengthening
in various sectors. The recently approved Social Sector Project (Credit 2465-GUB, January
29, 1993), for example, is an integral part of the Borrower's strategy to address human
resource constraints as it is supporting decentralization of health services and health training
programs, as well as other investment activities in the health sector. The Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2074-GUB. 1990) is providing support for institutional
strengthening, with a particular focus on the planning capacity of the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport.  IDA's work with donors to harmonize procedures and data
requirements is helping to simplify the reporting requirements of the Borrower, thus
improving the Borrower's project implementation ability without further straining its
already limited institutional capacity.
K.    Key Lessons Learned
38.   The following lessons may be drawn from the experience of these two projects:
(a) The rationale for the provision of technical assistance and the definition of
what TA is intended to achieve should be clearly defined from the outset. Technical
assistance is a means of either -- under exceptional circumstances such as those faced by
Guinea-Bissau when TA I was prepared -- substituting the skills of the borrower or
developing existing local skills. The rationale for substituting the skills of the Borrower
was clearly presented and understood for both projects. Nevertheless, future project design
should keep in mind that the absence of a Borrower-owned capacity building strategy (as in
the case of both TA I and II) makes progress towards sustainability difficult, and without
clear objectives, effectiveness is hard to measure.
(b) Project design should be in line with the Borrower's implementation
capacity. The Borrower's weak institutional capacity was recognized during project design
which correctly allowed for a strong input of expatriate assistance to prepare and manage
the project. The flexible design of both TA projects, however, permitted the Borrower to
make adjustments in financing priorities, particularly when other donors' financing failed to
materialize. The danger of turning both these projects into slush funds was avoided through
close and frequent Bank supervision missions and a solid, well managed project unit.
(c) Acceptable work environment. Unsuitable working conditions and poor
salaries mean that counterparts are not motivated to work, and much less, to learn from
expatriate TA. Even if counterparts do learn, they leave at the first opportunity, thereby



13
undermining the project's sustainability. This was already apparent towards the end of TA
II, although both projects supplied computers, materials and basic equipment which went
some way to alleviate the working conditions. In cases where the work environment is
poor, measures to address these conditions, including the establishment of a "living wage"
is a necessary condition for retaining the capacity created through an institutional
development project. Thus, even in cases where such a project is successful in developing
local capacity during its implementation, the ability of the country to maintain this capacity
beyond the closure of the project depends on a number of institutional and economic factors
which can normally not be addressed through a free-standing TA project. In the case of
Guinea-Bissau the problem of low wages in the civil service will continue to jeopardize any
attempts at institutional development and long-term sustainability if it is not tackled within
a Borrower-owned capacity building strategy which includes a commitment to implement a
serious reform of the public service salary and benefits structure.



I



15
PART II: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
the First and Second Technical Assistance Projects
1.    The following is a summary of the Borrower's evaluations for the first and Second
Technical Assistance Projects. The original evaluations were written in Portuguese and are
available in the Project Files.
Technical Assistance Project, TA I, Credit 1517-GUB
2.    Assessment of Fulfillment of Technical Assistance Needs. Although during project
identification it was agreed that the Borrower would need 264 man/months of consultant
assistance, it became evident to the Borrower during implementation that this amount of
assistance should have been closer to 500 man/months. At the same time, the Borrower
acknowledged that, TA I being the first project of this type in Guinea-Bissau, it was very
difficult to identify from the very beginning all the priority areas for which assistance should
have been budgeted. Fortunately, the flexibility of project design allowed the Borrower to
better focus project resources during implementation on priority activities, particularly for
training in the area of macroeconomic policy. Evident efficiency gains in the processing of
reports and day-to-day operations of the beneficiary agencies as well as the improved
availability of national economic and financial information were attributed to the assistance
received from TA I. The pricing study, although its recommendations were not fully
implemented, provided the Government with important data which contributed to the
development of their current pricing policies. The public enterprise study also provided useful
recommendations for the reform of the public enterprise sector.
0
3.    Assessment of Suitability of Consulting Services. The Borrower felt that the assistance
received from the various resident advisors and consultants was responsible for the improved
capacity of its staff, particularly with respect to the design of macroeconomic policy and the
carrying out of economic studies. For example, training received by the Ministry of Finance
allowed its staff to better respond to requests for information from international donors and
bilateral agencies regarding the national accounts. In 1985, the contracting of a foreign
consulting firm to run the project management unit was the catalyst for global implementation
of the project, which had until then been progressing very slowly.
4.    Assessment of IDA Collaboration. The Borrower considered IDA's collaboration to
have been very satisfactory as well as critical for the success of the project. The Borrower
acknowledged that it lacked experience with this type of project and faced a steep leaming
curve. However, through strong cooperation with IDA, initial implementation problems were
overcome and both institutions garnered useful knowledge from the experience.
5.    Assessment of Borrower Performance. The Borrower was unable to manage the
project itself due to its lack of capacity and experience -- the strengthening of which was one



16
of the main reasons behind TA I. Through implementation of this project, however, the
Borrower felt that it was now more able to manage following technical assistance operations
from IDA and other donor agencies.
Second Technical Assistance Project, TA II, Credit 1935-GUB
6.    After the closing of TA II, the Borrower prepared a final project evaluation report and
conducted a survey of the various beneficiary agencies. Both documents were sent to IDA in
October 1994. The main findings of the final report and the survey questionnaires are
summarized below.
7.    Assessment of Fulfillment of Technical Assistance Needs. Although the Borrower did
not undertake a detailed cost-benefit analysis of TA II, it considers that the overall balance
was positive and that the project led to: (a) a substantial improvement in the ability and
efficiency of functionaries to undertake economic analyses and provide more accurate data to
policy makers and international lending institutions; (b) a substantial improvement in working
conditions and the consequent improvement in the workings of each department; (c) a greater
simplification of work processes and services provided, particularly in the banking, statistical,
tax, inspection, and research departments; (d) an upgrading of the skills of technical staff as a
result of intensive training programs; and (e) an increasing number of local counterparts who
were able to take over the management and coordination of economic policies as a result of
technology transfer from resident advisors as well as from training programs. On the
downside, it was felt in some agencies that the lack of office and computer equipment
restricted their ability to take advantage of consultants' expertise and newly acquired skills of
training program participants. Nevertheless, it was acknowledged that TA II could not cover
all areas as it was clear that technical assistance similar to that provided under TA II would
continue to be needed deep into the medium term.
8.    Assessment of Suitability of Consulting Services.  Overall, the beneficiaries were
satisfied with the performance of the consultants, and most agreed that short-term consultants
were preferable to resident advisors because the latter had to operate under more concrete
terms of reference and complete their activities within a given time frame. Both factors then
improved their ability to transfer technology and contribute productively to the completion of
important tasks in the various beneficiaries; examples cited included the completion of the
Public Investment Plan, the design and implementation of the Cadastre Project, and the design
of the Tax Reform Project. In addition, the evaluation of consultants was made easier when
their assignments were of a short-term nature. Training needs were generally fulfilled in a
satisfactory manner by the consultants and led to improved performance of staff participating
in the programs. Some problems with the consultants were mainly of a linguistic nature.
Although all beneficiaries found the terms of reference for the various consultancies to be
acceptable, one found that, due to the lack of skilled local staff, the consultant could not fulfill
his original terms of reference as he had to operate in a line position to ensure that the
department's output could be produced on time.



17
9.     Assessment of Training Programs. For the most part the beneficiaries were satisfied
with the training programs included in TA II. Suggestions on how to expand or improve
them, however, were plentiful.  One suggestion was to increase travel of trainees to
neighboring countries, such as Burkina-Faso, Cape Verde. etc.. and to coordinate the
financing for such training with the French, Portuguese. and European Community
development agencies. Another suggestion was to design training programs that ensured a
stronger link between technical and practical expertise, for example, courses in accounting
and computers should be matched with tax theory and collection. Yet another suggestion was
to ensure that training programs continue over the long-term to counter the problem of staff
turnover; in one beneficiary agency the staff that were trained under TA II had left their
posts once training had been completed.
10.   Assessment of IDA  Collaboration.   All beneficiaries were satisfied with the
collaboration of IDA through TA It and attested to the measurable improvement in the ability
of their staff to carry out their tasks from the assistance this project provided. The Borrower
complimented IDA for having provided its assistance exactly at the moment that it was most
critically needed. The generation of many quarterly reports required for monitoring budget
execution and programming in the Ministry of Finance and the completion of several
important projects, such as the Public Investment Program, the State Budget for 1993, the
Cadastre, and the Taxpayers Mandate of the Inspector General, were attributed to the
assistance provided to the beneficiaries under TA II.






19
PART III - STATISTICAL TABLES






20
Table 1.A: Summary of Assessments for the Technical Assistance Project (TA I)
A. Achievement
of Objectives       Substantial    Partial     Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro Policies                              X
Sector Policies                             X
Financial Objectives                                                     X
Institutional Development                   X
Physical Objectives            X
Poverty Reduction                                                        X
Gender Issues                                                            X
Other Social Objectives     .                                            X
Enviromnental Objectives                                                 X
Public Sector Management                    X
Private Sector Development                  X
B. Project
Sustainability         Likely _ Unlikely  J  Uncertain
TA I Project               _                X        _ _ _
C. Bank              Highly
Performance         Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                              X
Preparation assistance                      X
Appraisal         .                         X
Supervision                                 X
D. Borrower            Highly
Performance         Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                               X
Implementation                              X
Covenant compliance                         X
Operation                                   X
E. Assessment of        Highly         _                     |   Highly
Outcome           Satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
TA I Project                                X



21
Table 1.B: Summary of Assessments for the Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II)
A. Achievement
of Objectives       Substantial    Partial      Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro Policies                              X
Sector Policies                             X
Financial Objectives                                                      X
Institutional Development                   X
Physical Objectives             X
Poverty Reduction                                                         X
Gender Issues                                                             X
Other Social Objectives                                                   X
Environmental Objectives                                                  X
Public Sector Management                    X
Private Sector Development                  X
B. Project                              -------  Uncertain
Sustainability         Likely      Unlikely |v Uncertain
Second TA Project         _____             X
C. Bank             Highly
Performance         Satisfactory Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                              X
Preparation assistance                      X
Appraisal                                   X
Supervision                                 X
D. Borrower            Highly
Performance         Satisfactory Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                 X
Implementation                              X
Covenant compliance                         X
Operation                                   X
E. Assessment of         Highly                -                   ighly
Outcome           Satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
Second TA Project                           X



22
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit           __|_Year of_|
Title                                   Purpose                         Approval      Status
1. Structural Adjustment    Support for the Gov'ts economic recovery program and      1987   fullv disbursed
Credit. SAC I           the first phase of the structural adjustment program   L         I
2. Second Structural       Support for the second phase of the Gov'ts structural      1989   fully disbursed
Adjustment Credit, SAC  adjustment program
3. Infrastructure          Support for institutional strengthening, including the     L991       ongoing
Rehabilitation Project    planning capacity, of the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport
4. Economic Management   Strengthening of the Gov'ts capacity to formulate and        1992       ongoing
Project                 implement a well-designed and integrated set of
economic policies and reforms
5. Social Sector Project   Strengthening of the Govt.'s poverty alleviation efforts   1993       ongoing
[through targeted assistance and institutional strengthening



23
Table 3.A: Project Timetable for the
Technical Assistance Project (TA I)
Steps in                 Date             Date
Project Cycle             Planned          Actual
Identification                      1/1/83           I/1/83
Preparation                         4/1/83           4/1/83
Appraisal                         11/83, 2/84      11/83, 2/84
Negotiations                       8/13/84          8/13/84
Board Presentation                 9/11/84          9/11/84
Signing                            9/25/84          9/25/84
Effectiveness                      12/21/84         12/21/84
Midterm Review                     9/30/86          09/30/86
Project Completion                 6/31/88          12/31/88
Credit Closing                     12/31/88         12/31/88
Table 3.B: Project Timetable for the Second
Technical Assistance Project (TA II)
Steps in                 Date             Date
Project Cycle             Planned          Actual
Identification                                         a/
Preparation                           ..        _       _a/
Appraisal                             ..             3/88
Negotiations                       5/16/88          5/16/88
Board Presentation                 6/23/88          6/23/88
Signing                             10/5/88         10/5/88
Effectiveness                       1/6/89           4/5/89
Midterm Review                     8/15/91          8/15/91
Project Completion                   9/92           12/31/93
Credit Closing                     3/31/93          12/31/93
a/ This were carried out during supervision of TA I between September
and December 1987.



24
Table 4.A: Credit Disbursements for TA I: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
.       FY85      FY86    FY87    FY88          FY89
Appraisal Estimate           1.7       3.7       5.1      5.8        6.0
Actual                       0.9       2.4        4.9     6.7        7.1
Actual as % of estimate      53%       65%      96%      115%       118%
Date of final disbursement    August 29, 1989
Table 4.B: Credit Disbursements for TA II: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY89   FY90    FY91    FY92 T FY93   FY94
Appraisal Estimate          2.0      4.3      7.1      8.6    9.7    9.7
Actual                       1.8     3.9       5.5     7.3    8.0    9.4
Actual as % of estimate     90%     91%       77%      85%    82%    97%
Date of final disbursement    October 1994



25
Table 5.A.: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operations (TA I)
Key Implementation Indicators in                 Estimated                        Actual
President's Report
Strengthen the economic and financial            By mid-1987           1988-89. Provided assistance
expertise of the Office of the President                               to the Unit in charge of aid
coordination and prepare for
the first Donor's Meeting
Provide the Ministry of Finance with             By mid-1987           1988-ongoing; established
expertise in Financial Policy Matters                                  Bureau of Studies and
Statistics; provided assistance
to prepare the OGE
Provide the Ministry of Finance with             By mid-1988           Not achieved under TA I;
expertise in support and financial control of                          however a unit was established
state enterprises                                                      with TA from SAC II and is
being assisted through the
ongoing IDA-financed
Economic Management
Project.
Support BNG's commercial and                     By mid-1987                      1984-89
development banking activities
Support MEPCI's capabilities for economic        By mid-1988           From 1988, unit established to
policy formulation and preparation of                                  monitor implementation of the
economic studies                                                       National Development Plan
(later PIP).
Support MEPCI's planning and aid                 By mid-1988           1988-89; established unit to
coordination capabilities                                              monitor and coordinator aid;
assisted with the preparation of
the first Donor's Meeting.
Development of MRNI's Studies, Projects          By mid-1986           1986-1989; unit established to
and Planning Bureau                                                    advise on forestry exploration
and industrialization, and to
evaluate sectoral investment
studies for economic
feasibility.
Establish guidelines for international           By mid-1986           Not achieved; however, under
administration (regional and central) and                              TA 11, a civil service census
civil service administration                                           was carried out and draft civil
service statutes prepared.
Develop an effective pricing policy for          By mid-1985           1986/87; recommendations of
agricultural products                                                  study formed the basis for price
liberalization measures
undertaken with SAC 1.



26
Table 5.A.: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operations (TA I)
(continued)
Key Implementation Indicators in               Estimated                     Actual
President's Report
Define a sound policy for management of       By mid-1986          Not achieved under TA l;
state enterprises                                                  however the Study was
completed under TA 11 and
formed the basis for the Govt.'s
divestiture program which was
started under SAC 11.
Train economic policy makers for              By end-1988          partially achieved;
macroeconomic management and                                       economic management
middle-level technicians in various                                training was continued
ministries                                                         under TA II and the
ongoing Economic
Management Project.



27
Table 5.B.: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operations (TA II)
Key Implementation Indicators in             Estimated                     Actual
President's Report                                                                               i
Expand economic and financial assistance to    By October 1988               a/
SEPAECI to enable it to
monitor the SAP
Continue support to the Ministry of Finance  By March 1993   Initiated under TA 1. continued under TA
with expertise in financial policy matters                  II and ongoing under the Economic
Management Project.
Improve extemal debt monitoring and        By March 1993    partially achieved: ongoing with the
coordination with the National Bank                         Central Bank under the Economic
Management Project.
Continue support to the Ministry of Finance  By June 1988    partially achieved; ongoing under the
with expertise in financial management of                   Economic Management Project.
state enterprises
Strengthen the Department of Studies in the  By August 1988   Completed December 1993. This
National Bank with expertise in data                        assistance is now being financed by the
collection on balance of payments and foreign               IMF.
exchange flows
Strengthen the foreign department of the  By August 1988   December 1993; the Master
National Bank with expertise to improve                     Computerization Plan is being
management information systems and                          implemented under the ongoing
preparing a Master Computerization Plan                     Economic Management Project
Define a sound policy for restructuring    By August 1989   partially completed; the management of
management of state enterprises                             EAGB (electricity utility) was placed
under foreign management contract;
DICOL (State Petroleum Import and
Distribution Company) is currently
(1995) in the final stages of liquidation
Continue to provide Ministry of Plan with  By March 1993    partially achieved; under the ongoing
expertise in public investment programming,                 Economic Management Project the PIP
project monitoring and evaluation and                       unit continues to be strengthened and the
national economic management                                counterparts trained.
Train economic policy makers for           By March 1993    The first specialized Banking Training
macroeconomic management and middle-                        Program was successfully completed;
level technicians in key economic ministries                follow-up Banking training is being
and the National Bank                                       financed under the ongoing Economic
Management Project.
a/ Responsibility for monitoring the SAP was transferred to the newly created Ministry of Economic
Coordination in February 1990 which was supported through TA ll; SEPAECI ceased to exist.



28
Table 6.A: Studies Included in the Technical Assistance Project (TA I)
Study                    Purpose                  Status                   Impact
Pricing Study  Development of alternatives to the   Completed  Led to liberalization of trade and pricing
existing system of prices for agricultural       policies, and to an increase in domestic
products in order to determine an effective
means of producing incentives to farmers
for increased production.
Review of     Conduct an analysis of the institutions,    Completed  This study formed the basis for the
State         controls policies, and other factors              Government's eventual divestiture program
Enterprises    affecting such enterprises and their             which is ongoing.
performance, and make recommendations
for action by the Borrower including
possible liquidation, privatization, or
rehabilitation of individual enterprises.
Table 6.B: Studies Included in the Second Technical Assistance Project (TA II)
Study                           Purpose                     Status               Impact
Private Sector Investment  to encourage open up small and medium  Not completed Study was later carried out under
Incentives                private sector activity which would coincide          Bank ESW
with the splitting of the National Bank into a
Central Bank and a commercial bank
Introduction of Domestic   Analyze the effect of introduction of a new    Completed    Study led to the setting up of a
Commercial Banking       domestic commercial bank and draft organic             new commercial bank in a joint
laws and regulations for it.                          venture with State, local and
foreign participation
Consequences of Entry of  Analyze the costs and benefits of entry into   Not completed Guinea-Bissau's entry into
Borrower into the Western the Western Africa Monetary Union                     JMOA was postponed until the
Africa Monetary Union                                                           macroeconomic situation was
tabilized.
Cashew Export Tax          nalyze the effects of the cashew export tax  Completed    Led to the gradual reduction in
n cashew production and government                   he cashew export tax and to an
evenues                                              increase in cashew production and
exports



29
Table 7.A: Project Costs (TA I)
(US$ thousands)
Component             Local  Foreign  Total
Long-term Advisors              180    1540    1720
Studies and Short-term           50      780     830
Consultants
Training and Fellowships         50      450     500
Project Management               50      350     400
Equipment, Materials, and        40      350     390
Vehicles
Housing and Other Civil Works   400      150     550
Junior Economists, Secretarial and   150  35     185
Support Services
Activities identified under      15      985     1000
Implementation _
Physical Contingencies           45      60      105
Price Contingencies             120      700     820
TOTAL   1100    5400    6500
Table 7.B: Project Costs (TA II)
(US$ thousands)
Component              Local  Foreign  Total
Civil Works                       170     1330    1500
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles,   65      635      700
and Fumiture
Training                          210      490     700
Technical Assistance              367     3305    3672
Studies and Short-term Consultants   157  1413    1570
Project Management                65      585     650
Physical Contingencies            93      604     697
Price Contingencies               84      624     708
TOTAL   1211    8986   10197



30
Table 8.A: Project Financing (TA I)
(US$ thousand)
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Source        Local  Foreign      Total      Local  Foreign    Total
IDA           600     5400       6000        600     6500       7100
Cofinancing
Institutions
Other External
Sources
Domestic        500                 500        500                500
Contribution
TOTAL          1100    5400        6500       1100    6500       7600
Table 8.B: Project Financing (TA II)
(US$ thousand)
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Source        Local    Foreign       Total     Local  Foreign    Total
IDA   700       9000        9700       400    9000       9400
Cofinancir C
Institutions
Other External
Sources
Domestic  500                    500       500               500
Contributidn
TOTAL   1200        9000       10200      900    9000       9900



31
Table 9.A: Status of Legal Covenants (TA I)
Article                               Covenant                                            Compliance Status
3.01 (a)   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in  Complied. TA I was
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project under the  implemented without any
overall responsibility of BNG with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with   major problems: audits were
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial, management and planning practices,  carried out annually and were
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources  found to be acceptable.
required for the purpose.
3.0 1(b)  In order to assist BNG in carrying out its responsibility under paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower, acting through BNG, shall:
(i)  employ a team of project management consultants and experts: and           Complied.
(ii) assign adequate numbers of qualified local professional and support staff in BNG to partially complied.
work with such team in discharging such responsibility.
3.02(a)  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project. the Borrower shall employ  Complied.
accounting, banking, economic, engineering, financial, legal, management, planning and
training consultants and experts.
3.02(b)   The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of the   Complied.
consultants and experts referred to in Sections 3.01(b) and 3.02(b) above, shall be
satisfactory to the Association and such consultants and experts shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
3.02(c)   The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants and experts in the performance Complied.
of their services for the Project and make available to them all information relevant to the
Project.
3.03     The Borrower shall cause the team of consultants and experts referred to in Section  Complied. The Project
3.01(b) of this Agreement: (a) within three months of their arrival in the country to  management unit was
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and approval work plans for the  responsible for supervising the
remainder of the calendar year; (c) not later than one month after the end of each  consultants work programs
calendar quarter, to prepare and furnish to the Association progress reports covering the  and to prepare quarterly and
execution of the work plans during that quarter; and(d) not later than January 31 of each  annual progress reports.
year, to prepare and furnish to the Association detailed progress reports on the execution
of the work plans during the preceding calendar year.



32
Table 9.A. (continued)
Article                               Covenant                                              Compliance Status
3.04     Without any limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 and 3.02 of this  Complied partially, due to
Agreement, the Borrower shall assign to the consultants and experts employed under the  insufficient numbers of
Project adequate numbers of qualified professional staff as counterpart staff and provide  adequately qualified
such consultants and experts with adequate numbers of local support personnel.   counterparts.
3.05     The Borrower shall appoint to the management unit referred to in Part C (iii) of the  Complied partially. There
Project, one representative each from BNG, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of  never was a full complement
Commerce and Tourism and the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Planning and     from all ministries.
International Cooperation.
3.06     Before undertaking any study or providing any service referred to in Part F of the  Complied.
Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval a proposal for each
such study or each such service.
3.07     Before undertaking the program of fellowships referred to in Part H (v) of the Project,    Complied.
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval a proposal detailing the
courses to be followed and the qualifications and experience of the candidates intended
to follow them.
3.08     Before undertaking the construction of the housing referred to in Part I (i) of the Project, Complied.
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval the design of such housing.
3.1 0(a)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the  Complied. Quarterly and
plans. specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement  annual progress reports
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in  prepared by the Project
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.                         Management Unit.
3.1 0(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor  Complied. Quarterly and
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to   annual progress reports
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose prepared by the Project
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to visit the  Management Unit.
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
3. 1 0(d)   On or before September 30, 1986, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose    Complied. A mid-term review
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower and the Association shall  was carried out as scheduled..
conduct a joint review of the progress of the Project to date and, to this end, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.



33
Table 9.A. (continued)
3.1 O(e)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than six months after  Complied. The Borrower
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the  carried out a survey of the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association  beneficiaries of TA I and
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on  prepared a report based on the
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to  findings of this survey.
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
4.01(a)   The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts to reflect in  Complied. A special account
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations, was opened in a foreign
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of   commercial bank.
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b)  Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on  Complied.
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,  Complied.
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.         Complied.
4.0 1(c)   The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal Complied. Audits was carried
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently  out regularly on an annual basis
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) fumish to the    and were found acceptable.
Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and (iii) fumish to the Association such other information con-
ceming said accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.



34
Table 9.B: Status of Legal Covenants (TA II)
Article                         Covenant                                  Compliance Status
2.02(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and  Complied. A Special Account was
maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank on  opened in a foreign commercial bank
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits, and acceptable to IDA.
payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.03    The Borrower shall. by December 31, 1988, take all measures  The Government was restructured
necessary to provide SEPAECI with adequate authority to carry   following the death of the Minister of
out the monitoring of the Program and with qualified staff in  Plan and monitoring of the Program
adequate numbers to carry out timely reporting on the Program.   became the task of the new Ministry of
Economic Coordination, Commerce and
Tourism and subsequently the present
Ministry of Economy and Finance with
the assistance of UNDP, the French
Assistance Cooperation and IDA.
3.05    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, adopt a detailed plan  Complied with in July 1989, and
of action, including a schedule, satisfactory to the Association, for training courses started in January 1990.
canying out training under Part J of the Project (Training
Component).
3.06    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, carry out under Part H Complied except for the studies on the
of the Project the studies on private sector investment incentives,  private sector which was premature and
the introduction of domestic commercial banking, the     the entry into UMOA because Guinea-
consequences of the cashew export tax on production and the  Bissau's entry was postponed until the
Borrower's revenues.                                     macroeconomic situation was stabilized.
3.07    The Borrower shall, by January 31, 1989, review with the  The restructuring of the Government
Association the role of the Ministry of Plan and the sector  (mentioned above) led to the African
ministries in planning, monitoring and implementation of the  Development Bank redesigning its
public investrnent program and, on the basis of such review  assistance for the Ministry of Plan. This
formulate a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, with    project has now been initiated, but in the
respect to additional technical assistance required during the  interim, IDA is supplying assistance for
Project of the Ministry of Plan and the sectoral ministries.  the public investment program.
4.01 (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and Complied. The Project Unit prepared
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  regular progress reports and financial
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  statements.
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.



35
Table 9.B. (Continued)
4.01(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of  Complied. Audits were carried
this Section including those for the Special Account for each   regularly on an annual basis and were
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing  acceptable.
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said Auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.01(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph    Complied.
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the   Complied.
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all record (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and                                                         Complied.
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report  Complied.
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.



36
Table 10.A: IDA Resources -- Staff Inputs (TA I)
Stage of Project Cycle         Actual                 Planned
Weeks         USD       Weeks      USD
Through Appraisal          63.0          n.a        n.a       n.a
Appraisal to Board         4.5           n.a        n.a       n.a
Board to Effectiveness      -            n.a        n.a       n.a
Supervision                81.9          n.a        n.a       n.a
Completion                 5.5           n.a        5.0       n.a
TOTAL       155.0         n.a         5.0       n.a
Table 10.B: IDA Resources -- Staff Inputs (TA II)
Stage of Project Cycle         Actual                Planned            Revised
|  Weeks        USD       Weeks       USD      Weeks    USD
Through Appraisal           4.0         n.a         n.a       n.a       n.a      n.a
Appraisal to Board          3.0         n.a       in.a        n.a       n.a      n.a
Board to Effectiveness      n.a         n.a         n.a       n.a       n.a      n.a
Supervision                68.0         n.a        70.0      15.6      82.8     10.4
Completion                 10.0         3.7        28.0      28.0      19.0    22.8
TOTAL       85.0        3.7        98.0       43.6     101.8    33.2
NB.: Planned and Revised data not available due to changes in BAS.



Table ll.A: Bank Resources: Missions (TA I)
V_______________   ______    :_______  X_______   _______     _      Performiiance   Rating:  '::  X ____'Pe_ Ra   i:g
Stage of Project    Month/   No. of   Days in    Specialized    limplement..  Development               Types of Problems
Cycle          Year    People    field       Staff Skills      Status        Objectives . ____:____                :_____
Through Appraisal   11/83         7        43.4         ME,                                         No major problems encountered
12/83                          *PSM/ID,                                        during project preparation and
02/94                            Training                                              implmentation
Appraisal through    08/84        3         4.4         ME
Board Approval       09/84
Board Approval       09/84        1          -          ME
through Credit       12/84
Effectiveness
Supervision          FY85         4         16          ME,             2               1
FY86        6         30        Training,          2               1
FY87        4         14.5       PSM/ID            I
FY88        6         11.6                         1               1
FY89        2         7.8                          1               1
FY90         1        1.3                          1               1
Completion           FY93         2          2
7 Key to Rating: I  Problem-free or minor problems; 2   Moderate problems
8 Key to skills: ME = Macroeconomics; PSM/ID = Public Sector Management/Institutional Development



Table 11.B: Bank Resources: Missions (TA II)
Performance Rating 9
Stage of Project   Month/   No. of   Days in   Specialized    Implement.   Development           Types of Problems
Cycle         Year    People    field    Staff Skills 10   Status       Objectives
Through Appraisal   3/88        2        3.5      PSM/ID,                                        No major problems were
Training                                     encountered during project
preparation and implementation
Appraisal through    06/88      3        2.8      PSM/ID,
Board Approval                                    Training
Board Approval     07/88        1         -       PSM/ID,
through Credit      10/88                         Training
Effectiveness
Supervision         12/88       2        10       PSM/ID,           1             1
06/89       2        7        Training          I             I
02/90       2        10                         2             1                                              co
06/90       2        10                         2             1
01/91       2         7                         2             1
07/91       2        10                         1             1
11/91      2         10                         1             1
06/92       2        10                         I             1
09/92       2        7                          1             1
01/93       2         7                         1             1
06/93       2         7                         1             1
Completion          03/94       2        2.3
9Key to Rating: I  Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems
t0 Key to skills: ME = Macroeconomics; PSM/ID = Public Sector Management/Institutional Development









IMAGING
Report No:        15168
Type: PCR



