Docunen of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4824-GUB
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 7.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 3, 1988
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1988)
Currency Unit = GB Peso
US$1.00 - GB Peso 970
GB Peso 1 million = US$1,030.93
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        African Development Bank
ADF        African Development Fund
BNGB       National Bank of Guinea-Bissau
MFPTSS     Ministry of Civil Service, Labor and Social Security
MRNI       Ministry of National Resources and Industry
NCECC      National Commission for Economic Coordination and Control
SAP        Structural Adjustment Program
SEPAECI    State Secretariat of the Presidency for Economic Affairs
and International Cooperation
!JGAB      Management Unit in charge of procurement and
disbursements under SAP
UMOA       Union Monetaire de l'Ouest Afrique
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Beneficiar:         State Secretariat of the Presidency for Economic
Affairs and International Cooperation (SEPAECI),
Ministries of Finance, Plan, Natural Resources and
Industry (MRNI), Civil Service, Labor and Social
Security (MFPTSS) and the National Bank of
Guinea-Bissau (BNGB)
IDA Credit Amount:  SDR 7.0 million (US$9.7 million equivalent)
Termss              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlendina Terms:    Not applicable
Financina Plan:     Government           US$ 0.5 million
IDA                 USS 9.7 million
TOTAL               US$10.2 million
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:             None
Maps                IBRD No. 15779R
This document has a stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Guinea-Bissau for SDR 7.0 million (US$9.7 million
equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to help finance a Second
Technical Assistance Project.
2.        Backsround.  In the years following iniependence from Portugal,
technical assistance to Guinea-Bissau was mobuy limited to technical
ministries and public agencies and directly related to projects. In later
years, there was increasing interest f-om the Government in obtaining
technical assistance for economic planning and management rather than just
for project-related activities. The Association was approached to provide
advisors to help formulate an economic recovery program, which led to two
Reconstruction Import Credits (RICs) 1/, while the IMP was asked for its
support to prepare the urgent measures required to carry out the
stabilization program. To provide institutional assistance to the economic
recovery program in September 1984, IDA approved a Technical Assistance
Credit 2/ for SDR 6.0 million (US$6.0 million equivalent), mainly focussed
on strengthenings   (a) the macro-economic capability of key economic
ministries; (b) the operational capacity of technical ministries; and
(c) the institutional framework in newly created ministries and agencies.
Until now, IDA has played a key financimg role in supporting
Guinea-Bissau's economy recovery program, first through two reconstruction
import credits to finance essential imports and the first technical
assistance project to strengthen the technical and institutional support to
the economic recovery, and more recently, through the more comprehensive
structural adjustment credits.
3.        Notwithstanding the advice and assistance from the first
Technical Assistant Project and the RICs, the adjustment process lost
momentum in 1985, due to a sharp deterioration in the country's major
exports, delays in the implementation of institutional reforms,
insufficient production incentives and the inability to control the fiscal
deficit.
4.        In late 1986, the Government embarked on a comprehensive program
of structural adjustment, supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit from
the Association and Special Joint Financing (SJF) from the Special Facility
1/   IDA Credit 1531 and SPA A-14-GUB
2f IDA Cr. 1517-GUB



a 2 -
for Africa (SFA). 3/ This program is well underway and performance to date
has been very successful, oaiding to release of the second tranche of the
Structural Adjustment Credit and the Reconstruction Import Credit
Supplement in April 1988 4/.
5.        Now the need is to consolidate and expand on the initial success
of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), which has brought new, more
difficult and more immediate issues to resolve.  For this the Gcvernment
will require a continuation of many of the experts and training programs
launched under the First Technical Assistance Project, scheduled to close
in December 1988 and already 10  percent committed.  As there is still a
rather fragile layer of institutional expertise and experience in
macro-economic management within the Government, the proposed project would
provide the necessary continuity of ranagerial and technical expertise to
support the continuation of the SAP, as well as a more focussed and
comprehensive training program which is to be worked out with the
Government before the end of 1988.
6.        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA is the largest and most
important lender to Guinea-Bissau with a total of thirteen projects since
1979 for US$96.8 million. IDA's country strategy will continue to focus on
assisting the Government's economic recovery and growth with balance of
payments support as necessary. In addition, targeted sector and project
lending will aim to create conditions for the longer-term development of
the economy, including stimulating agriculture, and removing infrastructure
and social sector bottlenecks (in transport, energy, water, health and
education).
7.        The Association shares the Government's concern to improve the
capability within Government for closer day-to-day coordination and
management of the Structural Adjustment Program. IDA's continued
involvement through balance of payments support and provision of advisors
on economic policy matters is important for successful implementation of
the Adjustment Program. Technical Assistance costs are on the high side
for a country of this size. There are a number of reasons for this:
(a) there are still relatively few trained nationals in macroeconomic
management of sufficient experience in senior positions of Government, and
advisors will continue to be needed in many senior positions for the
foreseeable future, at least throughout the period of the adjustment
program;  the Association is working with the Government to identify
suitable candidates to take over these positions as soon as possible;
(b) more junior advisors are needed in technical positions, such as
macro-economic and debt data collection and management. It has been agreed
that suitable counterpart staff would be appointed at the time the terms of
3/   IDA Cr. 1978-SUB and SPA A-26-GUB, President's Report No. P-4524-GUB,
which was distributed to the Board in April 1987.
41   IDA/SecM88-101 distributed to the Board on April 12, 1988.



reference for the resident advisors are approved by the Government. At the
same time, the terms of reference will also be reviewed for training
content and institutional development objectives. (c) The Government will
always need access to specialized, discrete advice and technical
assistance, during the next few years these will include commerc:al and
development bankinp and computerization. The overriding reasons for such a
heavy concentration of technical assistance now reflect the need to prepare
carefully the second stage of the Government's Adju3tment Program directed
at achieving sustained economic growth: IDA's follow-up Structural
Adjustment Credit, scheduled for appraisal in October 1988, will focus on
such issues as macro-economic management; fiscal (tax) reform; public
enterprise reform; and better public investment program execution and
evaluation.
8.        Experience under the First Technical Assistance Project has shown
that Guinea-Bissau is well able to absorb high levels of technical
assistance. However, the technical assistance management unit will
continue its efforts under the proposed project to ensure better
coordination and to avoid duplicatio- of the tasks of the advisors while
urging the Government to provide adequate counterpart support.
9.        Proiect Objectives.  The main purpose of the proposed project
is to build on the first Technical Assistance Project to provide valuable
technical and manageriv' expertise to key economic agencies of Government
to support the structural adjustment process. The aim is to achieve this
objective through building on and improving the institutional framework in
Government for macro-economic decision making. In particular, the project
would: (a) strengthen the analytical and planning capabilities of the
State Secretariat of the Presidency for Economic Affairs and International
Cooperation (SEPAECI), the Ministries of Finance, Plan, Natural Resources
and Industry (MRNI), Civil Service, Labor and Social Security (MFPTSS) and
the National Bank (BNGB); (b) strengthen macro-economic management
capabilities through more effective mechanisms for setting priorities,
allocating resources and managing the government's policies; (c) upgrade,
through on and off-the-job training, the managerial, administrative and
technical skills of their personnel; and (d) attract and retain
high-calibre senior management and technical civil servants through the
provision of a pilot component to provide financial assistance for staff
housing.
10.       Proiect Description.  The proposed project would include
assistance to improve, through technical assistance, training and
logistical support: (a) macro-economic management; (b) external debt
management; (c) commercial banking capacity and activities; (d) public
investment planning, monitoring, analysis and evaluation; and (e) pilot
housing assistance for senior civil servants.
11.       The project, to be carried out over 4 years, provides funds for
approximately 324 staffmonths of identified long-term advisors, and for an
estimated 157 staffmonths of short-term consultants for studies and advice,
to SEPAECI, the Ministries of Finance, Plan, MRNI, MFPTSS and BNGB. Of the
long-term advisors recruited under the first Technical Assistance Project,
it is expected that nine would be continued under this project. Few



- 4 -
counterparts for these advisors are expected to be found over the life of
the project. In addition, funds for training for public sector employees
would be provided to improve capabilities at every level of Government to
do a more effective job; however, efforts will be targeted to key technical
and managerial levels in the economic ministries/agenciec. A detailed
training program will be designed by the end of 1988, following the
recommendations of the current advisors and a review of the training needs
to be carried out under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance.
Vehicles and furniture and equipment are also included to support the
efficient execution of the project and realization of the project
objectives. The project includes a srmall civil works component to enable
the commercial banking arm of the National Bank to quickly establish itself
as an independent commer-ial banking entity, which will facilitate
development of the private sector. The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$10.2 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component
of US$9.0 million (88 percent).
12.       A bre'akdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule
A.  Amounts ana methods of procurement and disbursements, and the
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea-Bissau
are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. No Staff Appraisal Report
has been prepared; a Technical Annex is attached with more detailed
information on the project. A map No. IBRD 15779R is also attached.
13.       ARreed Actions.  The Government has agreed on the following
actions:  (i) reinforce SEPAECI before December 31, 1988, with adequate
authority and qualified staff to enable day-to-day monitoring and timely
reporting on the progress of the SAP; (ii) appoint suitable counterpart
staff for the resident (and where applicable, short-term) advisors at the
time the terms of reference for the advisors are reviewed and approved by
the Government; (iii) draw up and adopt a detailed plan of action, by
December 31, 1988, for training suitable national staff to replace advisors
as soon as possible; (iv) carry out, by Decembe 31, 1988, the studies on
private sector investment incentives, the introduction of domestic
commercial banking, the consequences of entry by Guinea-Bissau into UMOA
and the consequences of the cashew export tax on cashew production and
Government revenues; (v) review with the Association and other concerned
donors, by January 31, 1989, the role of the Ministry of Plan and the
sectoral ministries in planning, monitoring and implementation of the
public investment program, as well as a plan of action for further
technical assistance in this area; and (vi) sign a management contract
between the Government and a consulting firm, covering the first two years
of project implementation by the date of effectiveness (currently scheduled
for September 1988).
14.       In addition, the Government proposed, and the Associatioa agreed,
to include a small pilot component to provide financial assistance for
senior civil servant housing. This is urgently needed to retain
sufficiently senior managerial and technical staff in the economic
ministries during the period of the SAP. This pilot assistance would act
as a bridge to a more comprehensive and sustainable solution to civil
service reform, to be undertaken by the Government with UNDP assistance.



- 5 -
15.       Benefits.  The most important benefit will be an improved ability
to conceive, manage and monitor a comprehensive and consistent set of
macro-economic policies, in order to take policy decisions quickly in light
of the changing economic picture for the country. This in turn should
strengthen the country's economic recovery and enable the Government to
pursue as quickly as necessary sound adjustment policies in crucial areas,
such as fiscal reform, state enterprise management and public investment
programming. In addition, the project would strengthen the Government's
capability to implement these policies and lead to a firmer institutional
framework within which the country's longer term development can take
place.
16.       Risks.  In terms of macro-economic management, the major risk is
a serious lack of trained and experienced personnel at the director and
technical levels of Government. There is not even a large enough pool from
which to draw sufficient numbers of suitable candidates for on and
off-the-job training. However, the absorptive capacity of the Government
is increased to the extent key line positions are being filled by technical
assistance staff, and these technical assistants are fully integrated into
the decision-making process of Government. In addition, the Government's
awareness of the need for technical assistance and its commitment to
economic adjustment and stabilization is reflected in the comditment of
most of the ongoing technical assistance staff; and the success of the
First Technical Assistance Project leading to the request for a follow-up
project. Counterparts already retained under the First Technical
Assistance project have provided a base which will be built on during the
proposed project. The Government has also provided assurances that every
effort will be made to assign Guineans currently returning from overseas
training to levels where they can most directly benefit from the
advicelexperience of the expatriate advisors.
17.       Another risk is the difficulty in finding expatriate personnel
who are sufficiently qualified to retain the confidence of the Governmint.
This risk is heightened by the somewhat difficult living and working
conditions that prevail in Guinea-Bissau. The proposed project includes
financing for housing units for the additional long term advisors
(considered necessary in the Guinean environment where suitable housing is
at a premium).
18.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
Attachments                                        President
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1988



-6-
Schedule A
gUINEA-BI$sUU
SECOND TcHNrCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMDTED COSTS AND FIELNCING PLAN
Estimated Costs 3/                            Local      Foreain   Soa
_______-(US$ '000)…----
Civil Works                                    170         1,330   1,500
Equipmet, Materials,                            65           635     700
Vehicles & Furniture
Training                                       210           490     700
Technical Assistance                           367         3,305   3,672
Studies & Short-term Consultants               157         1.413   1,570
Project Management                              65           585     650
Base Costs                                   1,034         7,758   8,792
Contingencies
- physical                                    93           604     697
- price                                       84           624     708
Total Project Costs                          1.211         8.986  10.197
Financina Plant                               Local      Foreimn   Total
_-.--(US$ million)------
Government                                    0.5          0.0      0.5
IDA                                           0.7          9.0      9.7
Total                                    1.2         9.0      10.2  b/
al   Net of duties and taxes
b/   Figures have been rounded



-7-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Elements                        Procurement Method a/        Total
iCB    LCB     Other           Cost
------(US$ '000)----…-__________
Civil Vorks b/                      '376    926        -             1,802
(800)  (798)                   (1,598)
Equipment, Vehicles, cl                     756        110             866
Furniture and Materials                 (696)      (100)           (796)
Training                                               868             868
(868)          (868)
Technical Assistance                  -      -       4,177           4,177
(4,177)        (4,177)
Studies/Shont-Term Cons.              -      -       1,767          1,767
(1,590)        (1,590)
Project Management                    -      -         717             717
(655)          (655)
TOTAL                     876   1,682    7,639           10,197
(800) (1,494)  (7,390)         (9,684)
a/   Contingencies and expenditures financed by PPF are included in the
amounts shown. IDA contribution is shown in parenthesis.
bI   IC8 Limit:  Contracts for US$500,000 and above; LCB:  contracts below
US$500, 000.
c/   All contracts are expected to be below US$200,000.  These will be
procured under LCB, except for packages of a value less than US$50,000
which will be procured on the basis of at least three quotations.



SCHEDULE X
Page 2 of 2
DiPbursements
Categorv                       Amount                    X 
(US$ '000)
Civil Works                    1,200           1001 of foreign and B0X of
local expenditures
Equipment, Vehicles,
furniture and materials         550           1001 of foreign expenditures
Training                         850           1002 of total expenditures
Technical Assistance           3,000           1001 of total expenditures
Studies/Short Term Cons.       1,500           1OOZ of foreign expenditures
Project Hanagement               600           1002 of foreign expenditures
PPF Refinancing                1,500           1001
Unallocated                      500
Total Credit Amount            9.700
Estimated IDA Disbursements d/                 IDA Fiscal Year
89   90   91    92    93
------(US$ million)------
Annual                                    2.0  2.3  2.8   1.5   1.1
Cumulative                                2.0  4.3  7.1   8.6   9.7
dI   The disbursement profile does not correspond to the standard profile
for technical assistance projects in Africa for two reasonss (i) the
economy of Guinea-Bissau is changing rapidly in response to the
Structural Adjustment Program, and (ii) the disbursement experience
under the first Technical Assistance Project, scheduled to close in
December 1988, is already 100 percent committed.



-9-
Schedule C
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:          3 months
(b)  Prepared by:                    Government, mainly BNGB, and AF4CO
(c)  First IDA mission:              December 1987
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:    March 1988
Ce) Negotiations:                    May 17-18, 1988
(f)  Planned Date of Effectivenesss  (September 1988)
(g) List of relevant PCRsz           None



- 10 -
Schedule D
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA-SISSAU .1
STATEWT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 81, 1066)
Closing
Credit No.    Year             Purpose               Amount b/       UndleburWsd b/  Date
- ------ USSl million --------
Two credit. have been fully diebursed                      15.80           0.0
1334-GUS     1988    Petroleum Exploration II             18.10           1.94     06/89/8
1892-OUB     1984    Siseau Port                          18 00          4.90      08/80/88
1478-OUR     1084    Roads II                              4.00          0.98      06/BO/90
FOb1-OUB     1984    Roads I                               4.90           0.87     0/0/90/W
1617-OUB     1984    Technical Assistance                  6.00          0.89      12/31/86
1681-GUS     1085    Reconstruction Import                10.00           1.97     12/81/88
A-014- US     1986    Supplem.Reconst.Import                5.00           2.20      12/81/88
1798-GUS     1987    SAC                                  10.00           6.94     97/81/89
A-026-OUS     1987    Structural Adjustment                 5.O0           1.69     07/S1/89
1799-OUR     1987    Agricultural Services                 8.70          4.44      12/81/91
1800-CU      1987    Pop,Health A Nutrition                4.20          8.87      06/80/01
Total number of credite = 18
Total 8. 0                                                 28.74
of which has been repaid                      0.00
Total now held by IDA                         9.00
Total undisbursed                                           28.74
The statue of the projects listod above Is described In a separate
report on all Sank/IDA proJocts In executlon. This r*port Is updated twice
yerly and Is circulated to the Executive Dirctore on April 80 and
October 81 of each year.
T/ thr are no IFC Investments In Guinea-Biesau
b/  IDA Credits after 1980 and Special Fund Credits are denominated in
S1pwsa Drawing Right.  U.S. dollar amounts In tabl- are calculated
using xchange rates prevaillng at time of credit negotiations.



- 11 -
Technical Annex to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
for a Second Technical Assistance Proiect
SECTION A: Detailed Proiect Description
1.        The proposed project is intended to continue assistance to the
Government already started under the First Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1517-GUB). The specific focus of this assistance will be: a) to
strengthen the macro-economic management capability of key economic
ministries and the National Bank; b) to reinforce the still fragile
institutional framework; and c) to help the Government prepare and
implement the second phase of its structural adjustment program in'these
ministries and agencies. A second Structural Adjustment Credit is planned
for FY89 to support the Government's economic recovery. The proposed
Second Technical Assistance Project would thus assist the Government in the
implementation of the ongoing economic recovery, and in formulating policy
p.roposals to expand/deepen the structural adjustment program underway since
end 1986. The project would include approximately 324 staffmonths of.
resident advisors, an estimated 157 staffmonths of short-term consultants
and studies, training, equipment, materials, vehicles, and furniture and
civil works as follows:
'i)  resident advisors to the State Secretariat of the Presidency for
Economic Affairs and International Cooperation (SEPAECI) (1), the
Ministries of Finance (3), Plan (1), Natural Resources and
Industry (1), Civil Service, Labor and Social Security (1) and
the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (4) -- the principal
authorities responsible for management of economic policy;
(ii)  short-term consultants to augment the help given by the resident
advisors, to strengthen the institutional capability of the
concerned ministries and the National Bank and to carry out
specific studies aimed at defining policy objectives and
priorities to enable Government to administer the ongoing
economic recovery program more effectively and identify needs for
future technical assistance; among the studies to be carried out
are the following: encouragement of private sector activities,
introduction of domestic commercial banking, consequences of
entry into the Union Monetaire de l'Ouest Afrique (TUMOA), the
consequences of cashew export tax on cashew production and on
Government -evenues.
(iii)  training for counterpart staff of the ministrieslagencies under
the project, to continue to build up the necessary skilled cadre
of national staff in the areas of macro-economic policy and
decision-making, programming and budgeting, computer
appreciation, and economic and financial analysis. More emphasis
would be given to on-the-job training and to courses and seminars
to be held in Bissau, specifically tailored to the needs.



_ 12 -
(iv) equipment, materials, vehicles for use by resident advisors and
consultants empLoyed under the project.
(v) civil works: In order to support the Government's strategy to
stimulate private sector investment and to encourage production
and exports, the Government has undertaken to establseh a
commercial bank with better facilities (currently operating as a
window of the National Bank in extremely cramped conditions). As
part of the Government's contribution to establishing the
commercial bank, an existing building is to be rehabilitated
under the proposed project for this purpose.
Resident Advisors
State Secretarial of the Presidency for Economic Affairs and International
Cooperations (SEPAECI)
2.        SEPAECI acts as Secretariat to the National Commission for
Economic Coordination and Control (NCECC), created in August 1986, with a
mandate to coordinate, manage and supervise the Government's structural
adjustment program. The Commission is chaired by the President of the
Council of State, and is composed of the Permanent Secretary of the Central
Committee of the Party, the Ministers of Finance, Plan and Commerce, the
Minister-Governor of the National Bank, and the State Secretary for
Economic Affairs and International Cooperation in the Office of the
President, who is the secretary of the Commission. In particular, the
Commission is responsible for ensuring that the instruments of the
Government's economic policy are mutually compatible, and for coordinating
and implementing the full range of fiscal, budgetary, commercial, exchange.
monetary, price and wage policies pursued by the Government in the
framework of its structural adjustment program.
3.        The propused project includes financing to continue two senior
macro-economic advisors, one on a long-term and one on a short-term basis
to SEPAECI. There are currently two short-term senior advisors funded
under the First Technical Assistance Project. They have been specializing
in general development policy and international economic affairs. During
the first project they have played a limited role, largely due to the lack
of authority of SEPAECI to monitor effectively the adjustment program:
(their contribution to date has been mainly to draft background and
presentation papers on Government economic policy for the Council of
Ministers, for international aid coordination meetings and other fora.)
During negotiations, the Government agreed that before December 31, 1988,
it would provide SEPAECI with adequate authority and graduate level
counterparts to the senior advisors in sufficient numbers to carry out the
day-to-day work of monitoring the structural adjustment program and to
enable the Secretariat to carry out its coordination functions, including
timely reporting on the progress of the Structural Adjustment Program. We
expect that over the life of the project, a suitable replacement for the
long-term advisor will be found.



- 13 -
Ministry of Finance
4.        The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the design and
implementation of the country's fiscal policy and the Government budget.
The proposed Second Technical Assistance Project would continue assistance
to the Ministry of Finance in the following areas (i) budget, (ii)
inspection and audit: and (iii) computerization, all started under the
First Technical Astistance Project. The contribution of these consultants
has so far been very positive. They have played a key role in the
formulation of fiscal policy, and in improving considerably the monitoring
of the execution of the current budget. No local counterparts are likely
to become available to take over these three functions, over the life of
the proposed project.
5.        Serious gaps exist in monitoring treasury cash transactions and
the external debt. The objective would be to further improve the
capability of Ministry of Finance staff in these areas.  Project funds
would be provided for a part-time debt management advisor intended to
supplement the work of a recently recruited UNDP funded debt analyst, and
offer experience and expertise in more specialized areas of debt management
and rescheduling.
Ministry of Plan
6.        The Ministry of Plan is responsible for developing the public
investment program, the formulation of economic plans for the country and
gathering macro-economic data. It is proposed to continue assistance for
another two years to the Minister of Plan in the form of an advisor on
macro-economic and plarning issues affecting his Ministry. Since February
1988 assistance is being provided under the First Technical Assistance
Project by a senior advisor whose first task has been to assist in
preparing the 1988 public investment program. In addition, work has on
helping to improve public investment programming capabilities, so as to
better plan as well as monitor and evaluate the implementation of the
investment program. The advisor would help maintain a close liaison with
the sectoral ministries, in order to better coordinate the programming of
sectoral investments, and to monitor the financial and physical execution
of the projects in the Program. UNDP and EEC are currently providing
assistance to the Ministry of Plan - UNDP for monitoring of the Social
Costs of Adjustment program and EEC for work on the overall Development
Plan.   ADF is preparing a comprehensive program of assistance to Ministry
of Plan within the next year. Therefore any assistance under the proposed
project would be closely coordinated with the activities of other donors.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that, by January 31, 1989, it
would, together with the Association and other concerned donors, review the
role of the Ministry of Plan and the spending (sectoral) ministries, in
public investment planning, monitoring and implementation; and in light of
that review, agree with the Association and other major donors, what
further technical assistance is needed over the medium term in both the
Ministry of Plan and in the spending ministries.



- 14 -
Ministry of National Resources and Industry (MRNI)
7.        MRNI is responsible for the Electricity Company of Guinea-Bissau
(EAGB), and most of the other major public enterprises in Guinea-Bissau.
As such it is playing the lead role in carrying out a comprehensive public
enterprise study, being funded under the First Technical Assistance
Project. The proposed Second Technical Assistance Project would continue
the assistance being given by one of the three internationally recruited
advisors funded under the First Technical Assistance project. This person
would act as senior advisor to the Minister. The current advisor to be
retained is currently working with the local team on the public enterprise
study.
8.        The study will be carried out by an international firm of
consultants (Louis Berger) assisted by a national team and is scheduled to
be completed later this year, at which point technical and financial
assistance will be required to implement recommendations on restructuring,
privatizing, or liquidating these enterprises. The exact scope of the
assistance would be known only after the study has been substantially
implemented. The African Development Bank has expressed interest in
financing any technical and financial assistance needed; in addition any
policy reforms that emerge from the study will form part of the follow-up
Adjustment Credit.
National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (BNGB)
9.        In addition to the normal responsibilities of the Central Bank of
a country, BNGB also acts as a commercial banking facility and has a small
development banking credit window. As one of the key institutions charged
with the design and implementation of economic policy reform including the
Structural Adjustment Program, the National Bank needs to be further
strengthened in several areas: (i) macro-economics, (ii) the Department of
Studies where the need is clear for more accurate and timely information on
balance of payments to provide the basis for better financial management;
(iii) the Foreign Department where forward planning and record keeping of
foreign exchange cash flows is less than adequate; and (iv) UGAB, the
management unit responsible for coordinating the financial and procurement
activities for the Adjustment Program, in order to have more ready access
to balance of payments financing under the SAP and accurate and up-to-date
information on disbursements and commitments of the funds.
10.       The IMF has provided a long-term macro advisor to the
Minister-Governor and the proposed project would include financing for one
long-term advisor in the Department of Studies to work with the Department
Director. This advisor would collaborate closely with the IMF-financed
advisor, in formulating and implementing po?icies and improving data
quality and collection, mainly in respect of balance of payments. The IMF
has also agreed to finance two other advisors, one in the Foreign
Department to help prepare and manage the Government's foreign exchange
budget, and another on commercial and central banking. BNGB also needs
immediate short-term assistance to develop a computerized data base for its
external debt data, to enable the BNGB's managers to project debt service
obligations and plan foreign exchange needs in a timely manner. This



- 15 -
assistance over the longer term would be provided by the Debt Advisor in
the Ministry of Finance, and would lead to the coordination of MLT debt
under one roof.
11.       UGAB is the management unit for Balance of Payments Assistance in
BNGB, and as such is responsible for procurement and disbursements under
the SAP. The follow-up project would provide for financing a long-term
advisor to assist UGAB ensure these matters are handled in a cost efficient
manner. An expanded level of assistance to this unit was started in April
1988 under the Reconstruction Import Credit Project (Credit 1531-GUB).
Given the proposed upcoming second structural adjustment credit, it will be
essential to continue this assistance until at least end FY89.
12.       In addition, the project would continue to finance an advisor to
supervise overall operating systems including the installation and
debugging of the computerized accounting system, put in place under the
first Technical Assistance Project, and to continue with on-the-job
training for BNGB staff.
Ministry of Civil Service, Labor and Social Security (MFPTSS)
13.       The proposed project would provide a macro advisor to assist this
newly created Ministry which has responsibility, for (i) supervising the
reduction in the civil service to comply with the objectives of the
structural adjustment program and (ii) monitoring, in association with the
Ministry of Plan, the social costs of the adjustment program.  UNDP is
proposing to finance a study on Civil Service Reform including
improvements in pay and conditions, and the establishment of a register of
public, including civil, servants, to better monitor the evolution of
public sector employment. Assistance to finance and implement small scale
projects to alleviate some of the problems caused by the reduction in the
civil services would be solicited at a Donor's Conference scheduled for
July 1988. The Association proposes to play a catalytic role in these
innovative schemes. Therefore, we are planning a separate Social and
Infrastructure Relief Project to alleviate some of the costs of adjustment
on disadvantaged groups such as redundant civil servants.
Housini
14.       Civil Service Housing:  Financial assistance will be provided to
ensure that the Government can continue to attract and retain qualified
senior managerial and technical staff. Currently, salaries are very low,
housing costs are very high and a growing number of the most able staff are
leaving for the booming private sector.   This assistance would act as a
bridge to a more comprehensive and sustainable solution to civil service
housing which is being tackled by the Government, in the context of civil
service reform. Action on civil service reform, including salaries and
benefits, is expected to form a policy component of the follow-up
Structural Adjustment Credit, scheduled for appraisal in October 1988. In
addition, as part of the preparation for the Social and Infrastructure
Relief Project, the high cost of housing is being studied with a view to
introducing lower cost housing designs, building materials and building
practices that maximize the use of local materials.



- 16 -
15.       This assistance would be administered by the National Bank, using
the following eligibility criterias i) qualified senior managerial and
technical staff working in the economic ministries; ii) those who do not
already own a house; iii) depending on demand, it may be necessary to limit
numbers depending on length of service. The amount of the allowances would
be based on how long the recipient would agree to remain in the civil
service thereafter, but in any case, for a minimum of four years (the
duration of the SAP). A committee, composed of representatives of the
economic ministries, would decide on eligible applicants.
Proiect Manaaement and Imolementation
17.       Implementation of the first Technical Assistance Project is being
coordinated by a management unit, staffed by a consultant firm, which was
established in BNGB. This unit which comprises a Project Manager and
assistant has performed a valuable task, especially given the various
ministries involved in the project and the difficult logistic conditions in
Guinea-Bissau. The proposed project includes financing to continue this
assistance, and recommends expansion of the present unit to include an
administrative officer which could lessen the burden on the Project Manager
of the day-to-day running of the project and the myriad logistic problems,
leaving the Project Manager more time to assist in overall project
execution and coordination. Because of the success of the management firm
to date, IDA would have no objection should the Government wish to continue
with the same consulting firm. During negotiations, the Government
undertook to have a new project management contract signed by the date of
effectiveness (planned for September 1988).
SECTION B: Proiect Costs, Financing. Procurement and Disbursement
18.       The total project cost is estimated at US$10.2 million equivalent
(net of duties and taxes), with a foreign exchange component of US$9.0
million or 88 percent. An IDA Credit of US$9.7 million equivalent would be
provided towards financing 95 percent of the total project cost. The
Government would contribute US$0.5 equivalent to finance 42 percent of
local costs, including local salaries for counterparts, office space, and
communications costs. The Government would have to bear the cost of any
taxes and duties on imported goods and services.
19.       Base cost estimates are calculated on the basis of March 1988
prices. The total contingencies of US$1.4 million equivalent represent
14 percent of total costs (US$10.2 million). Physical contingencies of
15 percent have been applied to civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture
and materials and training, and 5 percent to technical assistance and
studies. Price contingencies represent 8 percent of base costs, based on
(a) the implementation schedule (Schedule 2 to this annex); (b) the
following expected foreign price increasess 3 percent in 1988-1990, and



- 15 -
assistance over the longer term would be provided by the Debt Advisor in
the Ministry of Finance, and would lead to the coordination of MLT debt
under one roof.
11.       UGAB is the management unit for Balance of Payments Assistance in
BNGB, and as such is responsible for procurement and disbursements under
the SAP. The follow-up project would provide for financing a long-term
advisor to assist UGAB ensure these matters are handled in a cost efficient
manner. An expanded level of assistance to this unit was started in April
1988 under the Reconstruction Import Credit Project (Credit 1531-GUB).
Given the proposed upcoming second structural adjustment credit, it will be
essential to continue this assistance until at least end FY89.
12.       In addition, the project would continue to finance an advisor to
supervise overall operating systems including the installation and
debugging of the computerized accounting system, put in place under the
first Technical Assistance Project, and to continue with on-the-job
training for BNGB staff.
Ministry of Civil Service, Labor and Social Security (MFPTSS)
13.       The proposed project would provide a macro advisor to assist this
newly created Ministry which has responsibility, for (i) supervising the
reduction in the civil service to comply with the objectives of the
structural adjustment program and (ii) monitoring, in association with the
Ministry of Plan, the social costs of the adjustment program. UNDP is
proposing to finance a study on Civil Service Reform including
improvements in pay and conditions, and the establishment of a register of
public, including civil, servants, to better monitor the evolution of
public sector employment. Assistance to finance and implement small scale
projects to alleviate some of the problems caused by the reduction in the
civil services would be solicited at a Donor's Conference scheduled for
July 1988. The Association proposes to play a catalytic role in these
innovative schemes. Therefore, we are planning a separate Social and
Infrastructure Relief Project to alleviate some of the costs of adjustment
on disadvantaged groups such as redundant civil servants.
Housing
14.       Civil Service Housina:  Financial assistance will be provided to
ensure that the Government can continue to attract and retain qualified
senior managerial and technical staff. Currently, salaries are very low,
housing costs are very high and a growing number of the most able staff are
leaving for the booming private sector.   This assistance would act as a
bridge to a more comprehensive and sustainable solution to civil service
housing which is being tackled by the Government, in the context of civil
service reform. Action on civil service reform, including salaries and
benefits, is expected to form a policy component of the follow-up
Structural Adjustment Credit, scheduled for appraisal in October 1988. In
addition, as part of the preparation for the Social and Infrastructure
Relief Project, the high cost of housing is being studied with a view to
introducing lower cost housing designs, building materials and building
practices that maximize the use of local materials.



- 16 -
15.       This assistance would be administered by the National Bank, using
the following eligibility criteria: i) qualified senior managerial and
technical staff working in the economic mAnistries; ii) those who do not
already own a house; iii) depending on demand, it may be necessary to limit
numbers depending on length of service. The amount of the allowances would
be based on how long the recipient would agree to remain in the civil
service thereafter, but in any case, for a minimum of four years (the
duration of the SAP). A committee, composed of representatives of the
economic ministries, would decide on eligible applicants.
Proiect Management and Implementation
17.       Implementation of the first Technical Assistance Project is being
coordinated by a management unit, staffed by a consultant firm, which was
established in BNGB. This unit which comprises a Project Manager and
&ssistant has performed a valuable task, especially given the various
ministries involved in the project and the difficult logistic conditions in
Guinea-Bissau. The proposed project includes financing to continue this
assistance, and recommends expansion of the present unit to include an
administrative officer which could lessen the burden on the Project Manager
of the day-to-day running of the project and the myriad logistic problems,
leaving the Project Manager more time to assist in overall project
execution and coordination. Because of the success of the management firm
to date. IDA would have no objection should the Government wish to continue
with the same consulting firm. During negotiations, the Government
undertook to have a new project management contract signed by the date of
effectiveness (planned for September 1988).
SECTION B: Proiect Costs, Financina. Procurement and Disbursement
18.       The total project cost is estimated at US$10.2 million equivalent
(net of duties and taxes), with a foreign exchange component of US$9.0
million or 88 percent. An IDA Credit of US$9.7 million equivalent would be
provided towards financing 95 percent of the total project cost. The
Government would contribute US$0.5 equivalent to finance 42 percent of
local costs, including local salaries for counterparts, office space, and
communications costs. The Government would have to bear the cost of any
taxes and duties on imported goods and services.
19.       Base cost estimates are calculated on the basis of March 1988
prices. The total contingencies of US$1.4 million equivalent represent
14 percent of total costs (US$10.2 million). Physical contingencies of
15 percent have been applied to civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture
and materials and training, and 5 percent to technical assistance and
studies. Price contingencies represent 8 percent of base costs, based on
(a) the implementation schedule (Schedule 2 to this annex); (b) the
following expected foreign price increases: 3 percent in 1988-1990, and



- 17 -
4 percent in 1991-1992.  Domestic price inflation figures have not been
used because we assume the Government will continue with its current policy
of keeping the exchange rate constant in real terms, thus differences
between domestic and foreign inflation will be compensated by depreciation
of the exchange rate.
20.       Activities under the project have already started with a PPF
Advance. Effectiveness is scheduled for September 1988 and the project is
expected to be completed by September 1992.
Procurement
21.       The resident advisors and short-term consultants would be
recruited internationally. Their selection, qualifications, experience and
terms of employment would be subject to normal IDA review procedures as set
out in the World Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Initially, the
contracts for the resident advisors would be for one or two years, with the
option for renewal. The entire cost of the resident advisors would be
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
22.       Procurement of vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies will
be in contracts below US$200,000; these will be procured using
LCB procedures, as set out in the World Bank's Guidelines on Procurement;
packages below US$50,000 will be procured on the basis of at least three
quotations, with an aggregate value not exceeding US$100,000. The
construction of the commercial bank would be let on the basis of ICB; other
civil work contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000 each are not
expected to attract international contractors and therefore would be
procured using LCB procedures, acceptable to IDA. Procurement
documentation for contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be
subject to IDA's prior review.
Special Account
23.       A Special Account of US$700,000, denominated in US dollars, would
be established in a commercial bank. These funds would be maintained by
the project management unit to cover project expenditures and would be
replenished by IDA on the basis of eligible aggregated withdrawal requests.
Withdrawal applications would be fully documented except for expenditures
related to in-country training, studies and fellowships, operating costs
and works, goods and services contracts valued at less than US$20,000
equivalent, which would be reimbursed against statements of expenditure
(SOEs). Documentation for SOEs would be retained by the project unit for
review by IDA and project auditors. Reimbursement applications would also
include a statement of account movements since the last application, with
the balance certified by the bank holding the special account, and a
reconciliation showing that the balance represents the original amount less
payments awaiting reimbursements. The Special Account would be operated
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and should any
disbursements made subsequently be disallowed by the Association, the
Government would be responsible for reimbursing the Special Account for the
corresponding amount.



- 18 -
Disbursements
24.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed againsts 100
percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for civil works;
100 percent of total expenditures for training and technical assistance;
100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, vehicles, furniture and
materials, and Project Management; and 100 percent of repayment of the PPF
Advance.
Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
25.       During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the Project Management Unit would maintain separate accounts for the
IDA Credit and the government's counterpart financing; (b) all accounts
under the project and all disbursements against SOEs would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (c) the
Government would submit to IDA the audit reports on project accounts and on
SOEs as soon as possible, but not later than four months after the end of
the government's fiscal year; and (d) the project management unit would
submit quarterly reports to the Government and IDA on project
implementation and expenditures, and a final evaluation report on
implementation experience and project results within six months of the
credit closing.



1                                                                    WINEAW IXSSAU                         SCHEDULE 1
Second Technical Assistance Project
Key Proiect Activities
Malor Activity                               Timetable                            Ros onsiblo A9 ncy                    Expected Output Dot
Expand economic and financall               8ypNprIsal of SAC                    SEPAECI                               Quarterly reports
assistance to SEPAECI to enable it          I  (1*/1S/68).
monitor the SAP.
Continue svpport to the Ministry of         Ongoing                               Ministry of Finance                   Ongoing
Finaneo with expertise In financial
policy mtters.
Improwv *xternal debt monitoring and        Ongoing                               Ministry of Finone                    Regular quorterly publication of
coordination with BNM¢.                                                                                                 reports on debt sorvice
coordinated with NOB.
(ltt report by Sept. a0 198)
Continue support to the Ministry of         ASAP Lfore and June 198               ministry of Finance
Finance with expertise In
financiol management of state
entorprises.
Strengthen tho Department of Studies        ASAP beforo apprail  of SAC           ONC8                                  Regular monthly publication on
in SOB  with expertise In date              It                                                                          Balance of Payments, foreign
colloction on Balance of Payments,                                                                                      exchange cash flow  and monetary
and foreign exchange flowss                                                                                             tables for 1988 and projections
for 1989.
Strengthen foreign dpartOment with          ASAP                                  BOB                                   Computerization of the debt of
*xpertie in ioplementing                                                                                                the National Bank by December
adlni strati oeoperatlonal procedures                                                                                   1m8. Weekly reports on foreign
already drawn up.                                                                                                       exchango availability by December
1966.
Continue Strengthening of SNCo'o            Ongoing                                                                     TO OD
accounting practiccs and supervise
ioplemeting of computerizd
banking syst4m.



2                                                                     CUDEA-BISSU                            SCHUIIE 1
Second Techniael Assistunce Project
Ke ROleTOAcEMiVI tieso
Walor Activity                               Timetable                            Responsibl- Aoency                     Expected Oiwt%t Dat
Dof ino * sound polIcy for                   Public enterprise etiy                 bWmI                                  After compltion of PE wstdy
restructurng mn nagn _et of state            underway, complotion scheduled                                              expeted 5Septdebr Ue. Any
entorpr)isu                                  for Sbptobr                                                                 fuiter tifimaiug mmid tfe  pert of
SAC I1 and prepserd Me proj-ct.
Continue to provide Ministry of Plon         Ongoing                               Ministry of Plan                      Omoieg
with expertise In public investment
programming, project montoring en                                                                                                                             o
evaluotion and Natlonal economic                                                                                                                               S
managemnt.
Train economic policy vakers for             Graduate Fellowship Progrm            Mhnhtry/Agoncy concerned               Ongoing:  Dstiliid tter.
macro-economic mnagsmnt *nd middle           Abroed. Training Programs                                                                        e   dofied
level technicians In various                courses ti  _                                                                *ollosing reoummdtien  o
economic binistries and gNOB.                                                                                            TRadi t n  digrE xpwt  _ y
Trbtixg Expert.
bsta.txt/lj
4'     ,



1                                                                    eurOUEASSAU                           SCHEDULE I
Second Technical Assistance Project
K.Y Project Activities
Malor Activity                               Timtble                              Resoonsble, Agncy                     Expected Output Date
Expend econoe'c and financial               byapprloal of SAC                    SEPAECI                               quarurly reports
lsisance to SEPAECI to *noblo it            II (19/16/119).
monitor the SAP.
Continue support to the Ministry of         Ongoing                               Minisry of Finance                    Ongoing
Finance with expertise in financial
pol cy matter,.
Improvo external debt monitoring and        Ongoing                               Ministry of Finance                   Regulor quarterly publication of
coordination with AMOS.                                                                                                 reporOt Oh debt service
coordinated with ENGB.
(lot report by Sept. 0, 1988)
Continue support to tho ministry of        AJSP betor end June 1988               Ministry of Finance
Finance with expertise in                                                                                                                               i-
financial managemnt of state 
enterprio .
Strengthen the Opartment of Studies         AP  before appralsal of SAC           IINIB                                 Reular monthly publication on
in BNCB with expertise in data                                                                                          Blance of Payments. foreign
collection on Balance of Payments,                                                                                      exchange cosh flost and monottry
and foreign exchango flows.                                                                                             tables for 1S88 and projections
for 1989.
Str ngtlMn foreign department with          ASA                                   9GMB                                  Computerization of the dtbt of
expertise in implementing                                                                                               the National Bonk by Dc_eber
ae nIstrativs/operationsl procedurs                                                                                     198.  Wkly reports on foreign
aIr edy drawn up.                                                                                                       exchango *vailability by December
1968.
Continue strengthening of SNOB'o            Ongoing                                                                     YUOB  110
accounting practics and supervise
implemeting of computerized
banking system.



2                                                                    WUIWEA-BISSAU                          SCHEDULE 1
Second Technical Assist nce Prolect
Key Project Activities
Malor Activity                              Timetable                            Rossonsiblo Asoncy                    Expectod Output Dnt
DOeine a oound policy for                   Public entOrprise study               MRNI                                  After completion of PE study
restructuring  anagoement of state          underway, completion scheduled                                              expected September 1966. Any
enterprise                                  for September.                                                              further financing would for pert of
SAC II nd propoexd ADS project.
Continuo to provide Ministry of Plan        Ongoing                                tntistry of Plan                      _ngOin
with expertise In public investmont
programming, project monitoring and                                                                                                                         O
evaluation and National economic
managent.
Train economic policy makers for            Graduate Fellowhip Program            Ministry/Agency concerned             Ongoing:  Detailed fture
macro-economic management and middle        Abroad. Training Progra  and                                                Training Progra_ to be defined
level technicins in various                 courses In Bissen                                                           follow;ng r    m     ioma of
economic Ministries and BhGB                                                                                            Resident Adwie.rm asstetd y
Training Expert.
b:te.txt/Jo



I~~~~~
;    i                           g           *~~~~~~~~~Al  



- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Documents Available in the Project File
Draft terms of reference for an advisor to the Department of Studies,
National Bank, to develop a system of money and banking data collection
preparation and analysis.
Draft terms of reference for an advisor to the Foreign Department, National
Bank to develop a systematic reporting procedure to the Minister-Governor
on the status and availability of foreign exchange anti to assist in the
implementation of operational procedures to enable effective management of
foreign exchange cash flows.
Draft terms of reference for a study of the review of private sector
investment incentives.
Draft terms of reference for a study of cashew export tax.
Draft terms of reference for a study on the consequences of Guinea-Bissau's
entry into UMOA and commercial banking practices.
Draft bidding documents and designs for the construction of a commercial
bank.



IBRD-15779R
l  S    E        N        E        G       A         L
.,0-
C H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
f  , { t ~i-o -"n~                                                                           .   /     
4 rta 8 ° 14 M ~,0  ,  /                                                                      --s! REPUBLIC OF GUINEA- BISSAU
<>>~~           qs4       -tt                                                                                 k -<     il;     EPt/S/CA PA GU/NF-B/SSAUJ
" Ue5hlt  4t  A      ,\°'                                 4*       | jow _                                 od 13T        MRI"ThUtA  dRI00UU pools
.r -~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     UfpAR rUd T,RSOR O       ALo /__,,'1+.
CSA.I A FV RT  C ABX                                          ,                            A                                                       R
I ClUA                                                                                                                                                APV  tA cNAL
GU3NEA   FRI CtlSlA                 W/1eR                                                                                                 OF GUNEA.BISSAU
WONA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~EULIAD   Uh SaN iRSAOAF
',T 0 M 8~ ~~~~~~~~~0
INaRi.Rin   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     U      IS      2   p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 4 p5ip tw     T.
&~~~~~~~O.G
.I.vobYIsyra,paiRmnwa.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Md lES
MCWR,ICYAIIY  SOUP  R7P               pOP                      #00                      1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-04



