OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1935 GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1935 GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated    C .     "-' 1              , 1988, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BNGB" means Banco Nacional da Guind-Bissau, the
National Bank of Guinea-Bissau, established and operating pursuant
to the Organic Law of BNGB of February 28, 1975;
(b) "SEPAECI" means Secretaria de Estado da Presidencia para
os Assuntos Economicas e CooperacAo Internacional, the State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs and International Cooperation of
the Borrower;
(c) "DESECO" means Desenvolvimento Economico, the Develop-
ment Bank Facility of BNGB;
(d) "Program" means the structural adjustment program of the
Borrower financed in part by the Association pursuant to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement dated May 22, 1987, as amended,
between the Borrower and the Association;
(e) "Technical Assistance Project" means the project
financed by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit
Agreement dated September 25, 1984, as amended, between the
Borrower and the Association; .
(f) "Project Management Unit" means the unit in BNGB respon-
sible for coordinating the execution of the Technical Assistance
Project and the Project;
(g) "UGAB" means Unidade de GestAo da Ajuda A Balanca de
Pagamentos, the unit in BNGB responsible for procurement and
disbursement under the Program;
(h) "UMOA" means Union Monetaire de 1'Ouest Afrigue, the
Monetary Union of West Africa;
(i) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated March 11, 1988 and April 28, 1988
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(j) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-3-
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1993
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accruc: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this.Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on November 15 and May 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each November 15 and May 15
commencing November 15, 199.8 and ending May 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay ttice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project under the
overall responsibility of BNGB with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by -the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, take
all measures necessary to provide SEPAECI with adequate authority
to carry out the monitoring of the Program and with qualified
staff in adequate numbers to carry out timely reporting on the
Program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall assign, in accordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Association, counterpart staff, in
adequate numbers, whose qualifications and experience are satis-
factory to the Association, to work with the resident advisors and
short-term consultants.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, adopt
a detailed plan of action, including a schedule, satisfactory to
the Association, for carrying out training under Part J of the
Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, carry
out under Part H of the Project the studies on private sector
investment incentives, the introduction of domestic commercial
banking, the consequences of entry by the Borrower into UMOA and
the consequences of the cashew export tax on cashew production and
the Borrower's revenues.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, by January 31, 1989,
review with the Association the role of the Ministry of Plan and
the sectoral ministries in planning, monitoring and implementation
of the public investment program and, on the basis of such review,


﻿-6-
formulate a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association,.with
respect to additional technical aissistance required during the
Project for the Ministry of Plan and the sectoral ministries.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account


﻿-7-
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enab.'e the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has entered into a
contract, satisfactory to the Association, for the staffing and
operation of the Project Management Unit to coordinate the
execution of the Technical Assistance Project and the Project.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional da Guind-Bissau
38 Avenida Amilcar Cabral
Bissau
Republic of Guinea Bissau
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANGUINE                       241 BNG-BI
256 BNG-BI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D,.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:         .           Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI>


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By                '
Author zed Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
* Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Categor               SDR.Eguivalent),     to be Financed
(1) Resident                   2,300,000        100%
advisors
(2) Short-term                   900,000        100%
consultants
and studies
(3) Project                      400,000        100% of foreign
Management                                 expenditures
Unit
(4) Training                     500,000        100%
and fellow-
ships
(5) Equipment,                   450,000        100% of foreign
materials,                                 expenditures
supplies and
vehicles
(6) Civil works                  850,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7) Refunding of                1,100,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated                   500,000
TOTAL
7.000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to continue to assist the
Borrower in strengthening the macro-economic management of its key
economic ministries and agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   SEPAECI
Strengthening the capability to monitor the Program through
day-to-day coordination, data gathering and periodic evaluation.
Part B:   Ministry of Finance
Strengthening the capability to handle fiscal and economic
matters, particularly with respect to tax reform, the national
budget and inspection and audit functions.
Part C:   Ministry of Plan
Strengthening the capability to plan, implement, monitor and
evaluate the public investment program, including coordination
with the sectoral ministries.
Part D:   Ministry of Natural Resources and Industry
Strengthening the capability to formulate policy for the
industrial sector, including the state enterprise sub-sector, and
to implement recommendations in respect of such policy.
Part E:   BNGB
(a) Strengthening the capability of the Department of Econo-
mic Studies to formulate and implement policies and to improve
data quality and collection, particularly in respect of balance of
payments matters.
(b) Strengthening the capability of UGAB to coordinate the
financial and procurement activities under the Program.


﻿- 13 -
(c) Strengthening the organizational framework through
restructuring and other measures, and improvement of the overall
operating systems, including the computerized accounting system.
Part F:   Ministry of Civil Service. Labor and Social Security
Assistance in implementation of the civil service reform.
Eart G:   Other Ministries
Studies for, and consultants' services to, other ministries
consistent with national economic goals.
Part H:   Studies
Studies on, inter alia: (1) private sector investment incen-
tives, (2) introduction of domestic commercial banking, (3) con-
sequences of entry by the Borrower into UMOA, and (4) effects of
the cashew export tax on cashew production and the Borrower's
revenues.
Part I:   Computerization
Assistance to the ministries and agencies participating in
the Project in introducing and maintaining computer systems.
Part J:   Training
Training of the staff of ministries and agencies participa-
ting in the Project in the areas of, inter alia, macro-economic
policy and decision making, programming and budgeting, computer
familiarization and economic and financial analysis.
Part K:   Construction and Rehabilitation
(a) Rehabilitation of an existing building to house a new
commercial bank.
(b) Construction and furnishing of housing for resident
advisors, short-term consultants and senior civil servants.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1992.


﻿-14--
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, materials, supplies and vehicles estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, but more than
the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
2.   Equipment, materials, supplies and vehicles estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggre-
gate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.   Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 15 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the conformed copy of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the conformed copy of
the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby speoified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ accounting, banking, economic, finan-
cial, management and planning consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) -On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Cate-
gories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have


﻿- 17 -
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
.the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an


﻿- 18 -
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Associa-
tion into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


