                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32447

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-32810)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR39.3 MILLION (US$52.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                                 FOR A

                               SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT




                                           September 27, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective May 10, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Córdoba
                                    1 Cordoba = US$ .06
                                         US$ 1 = 16.31 Córdobas

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APRENDE I First Basic Education Project (CR2689-NI)
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDE       Consejo Directivo Escolar (Local School Council)
CWP       Common Work Program
DO        Development Objectives
ESAF      Economic and Structural Adjustment Facility
FISE      Fondo de Inversión Social de Emergencia (Social Investment Fund)
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GoN       Government of Nicaragua
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
MECD      Ministerio de Educación, Cultura y Deportes (Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports)
MIS       Management Information System
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NERA      Nucleo Educativo Rural Autónomo (Autonomous Rural Education Center)
OM        Operational Manual
PEBI      Programa de Educación Bilingüe Intercultural (Intercultural Bilingual Education Program)
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PMR       Project Management Report
QSCB      Quality-selection Cost-based
RAAN      Northern Autonomous Atlantic Region
RAAS      Southern Autonomous Atlantic Region
SIC       Sistema de Información Computarizado (Computerized Information System)
SIEC      Sistema de Información de Estadística (Computerized Statistic Information System)
SIIG      Sistema Integrado de Información Gerencial (Management Information System)
SIMCEP    Sistema de Mejoramiento de Centros Escolares de Primaria (Primary School
          Infrastructure Improvement System)
SISEF     Sistema de Seguimiento y Evaluación Físico-Financiero (Physical and Financial
          Monitoring and Evaluation System)

                               Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                             Country Director       Jane Armitage
                               Sector Director      Evangeline Javier
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Suhas Parandekar/Alfonso de Guzman

                                        NICARAGUA
                       NI SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower Contribution                                                   34
Annex 9. Results from Students Learning Achievements                             43

Project ID: P050613                                                  Project Name: NI SECOND BASIC EDUCATION
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Suhas D. Parandekar                                     TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: NI SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-32810
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (25%); Pre-primary education (25%); Tertiary
                            education (23%); Central government administration (14%);
                            Sub-national government administration (13%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Social
                            safety nets (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/04/1999                                     Effective: 12/28/1999                06/14/2000
     Appraisal: 07/02/1999                                         MTR: 12/01/2001                  10/21/2002
      Approval: 08/31/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Nicaragua/Ministry of Education; Republic of Nicaragua/Culture and
                                           Sports
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                Evangeline Javier                              Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Suhas Parandekar                               Luisa Ferreira
ICR Primary Author:             Alfonso F. de Guzman; Rosa
                                Puech


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall goal of the Second Basic Education Project was to improve the development of human capital
in Nicaragua. The project would consolidate and expand the gains made by the First Basic Education
Project (CR 2689-NI) ­ APRENDE I. The project's development objective was to promote a more
equitable and effective basic education system, with community involvement in school governance. Its
specific objectives were to: (a) increase the coverage at preschool and primary levels; (b) improve quality
and efficiency of preschool and primary school education; and (c) promote continued institutional
strengthening and modernization of the Ministry of Education (MECD).

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revision was made to the project objective.

3.3 Original Components:

The total project costs were estimated at US$58.4 million equivalent (SDR39.3 million credit or US$52.5
million equivalent and the Government's contribution of US$5.9 million). The project comprised three main
components and several subcomponents:

Component 1: Expansion of Access and Coverage (US$1.2 million equivalent or 2 percent of total
project cost). This component would: (i) expand access to community preschools in un-served areas,
including areas with indigenous populations; and (ii) finance a pilot scholarship program targeted at poor
students in the 4th-6th grades who would be at risk of dropping out of school for economic reasons.

Component 2: Improvement in Educational Quality (US$42.2 million equivalent or 72.3 percent of total
project cost). This component would improve the quality of primary education by: (i) improving school
readiness among preschool children by providing preschool learning materials, teacher training, and
incentives; (ii) providing in-service teacher training for primary school teachers and principals; (iii)
providing textbooks, school libraries and educational materials for primary schools; (iv) rehabilitating the
existing school infrastructure and providing teacher housing in very remote rural areas; (v) piloting a
program to finance extracurricular activities at primary schools (Fondo Sonrisa)and (vi) financing a
performance-based incentive system for teachers and principals.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Modernization (US$11.9 million equivalent or 20.4
percent of total project cost). This component would improve MECD's management by: (i) modernizing
and consolidating MECD's monitoring and evaluation system, including the academic and non-academic
systems; (ii) fostering the school autonomy model through financing extensive managerial training for
school principals and members of the School Council; (iii) supporting the design and implementation of a
supervision system; (iv) implementing a national evaluation system to assess student performance; and (v)
disseminating information about the school autonomy model to make it more transparent to stakeholders.
This component included financing for the preparation of an APL.

Project Administration (US$3.1 million equivalent or 5.2 percent of total project cost). This component
would    finance    (i)  operational   costs;  and    (ii) equipment,    office   supplies   and   vehicles.




                                                    - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:

None of the components was revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR rating: Satisfactory.

The project was the second education operation financed by IDA in Nicaragua. The project was consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy's (CAS Report 17496-NI) objectives of developing human capital
and protecting the poor. The project was also consistent with the World Bank strategy on education
("Educational Change in Latin America and the Caribbean: A World Bank Strategy Paper". May 1999)
and supported the Government's priorities for the education sector, as explained in the Letter of Sector
Policy sent to IDA by the Minister of Education (attached to the PAD).

The project's Development Objective was fully consistent with the Government's own objectives and the
strategy and activities proposed to achieve them. Project design was based on the available economic and
sector work, and on the previous project ­ APRENDE I - under implementation when this project was
designed. Project design incorporated successful experiences created or piloted under the first project (such
as the mechanism used for improving school infrastructure, known as SIMCEP, under which the school
council and the school principal were responsible for overseeing school infrastructure maintenance and
repair activities). The Project included a strong focus on the very poor Atlantic region of Nicaragua, where
98 percent of the ethnic population lived. Project design incorporated the main recommendations of the
social assessment in this regard.

Project components were appropriate, having incorporated the lessons learned from the evaluations carried
out under APRENDE I. Most project activities were adequate to meet the component objectives, in the
context in which the project was designed. Such is the case of proposing the improvement of quality of
education and the readiness of students for primary education by providing learning inputs. In the context
of Nicaragua, where a lot of these inputs were lacking in schools, these investments were necessary, before
facing reforms that would tackle systemic issues. In certain cases, proposed activities had less impact on
the project objectives, as when enrollment increases in preschool were planned without the accompanying
communication activities. Though project design was appropriate, indicators for project outcomes were not
fully defined at the time of project approval. This brought difficulties during implementation to assess
progress in the achievement of outcomes. Though values for outcome indicators were not defined in the
PAD, the project included a detailed definition of outputs, better than what most projects had during that
period. Additionally, there were reasons to believe that some of the indicators would be very difficult to
follow, due to lack of data not yet generated by the education system. This was the case of improvements in
student performance on standardized tests for 3rd and 6th grades in Mathematics and Spanish. Since the
project was to support the application of the tests, it was unrealistic to presume the MECD would be able
to carry out this exercise several times during implementation. Finally, a baseline for project indicators
was not established during project design, which weakened evaluating the impact of project activities.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's objectives is rated Satisfactory based on the following outcomes:



                                                     - 3 -

·        Increased coverage at the preschool and primary levels, while increasing equity in the primary
education system, measured by the increase in enrollment levels in preschool at national level; increased
participation rate in grades 4 to 6 and primary completion rate in five targeted municipalities.

·        Improved quality of preschool and primary school education, measured by availability of textbooks
and learning materials; the use of new teaching techniques; and the training of teachers in core curriculum
subjects (language, mathematics and bilingual education); and improved internal efficiency measured by
repetition and drop out rates. Student performance on standardized tests of 3rd and 6th grade Spanish and
mathematics was suggested as an indicator for quality improvements. However, this was not used, as
comparable data were not available during the term of the project.

·        Greater institutional strengthening and modernization of the MECD and the education system,
measured by improvements in key departments within the MECD; the increased share of autonomous
schools; and greater involvement of School Councils in decision-making; and reallocation of resources from
central administration to schools.

Baseline values and numeric targets for the outcome indicators were not established in the PAD, during
project approval, or during project implementation. The project included a detailed and well defined set of
output indicators, as shown in Annex 1.

Increased coverage in preschool and primary education

During the period 1997-2004, Nicaragua experienced an increase in enrollment both in preschool and
primary at the national level. The country made progress toward achieving the goal of universal education
for its children. The net enrollment rate (NER) in preschool education (formal and non-formal) went from
23.49 percent in 1997 to 30.77 percent in 2004 (1). In 2004, enrollment in non-formal preschool education
reached 109,600 children aged 4-6 (which represented 56.8% of total preschool enrollment). By project
closing, around 8,328 children were enrolled in preschools in the Atlantic region. A total of 6,340 educators
were teaching (375 educators in the Atlantic Coast ) in 5,226 centers (244 centers in the Atlantic Coast).
Enrollment in the non-formal preschool system were affected by the implementation of programs similar to
APRENDE (2).

The NER in primary (Grades 1 to 6) rose from 76.21 percent in 1996 to 82.5 percent in 2004, in line with
the target set in the Poverty Reduction Strategy (82.4 percent in 2004) (3). The participation rate in 4th to
6th grades in the five municipalities targeted by the project increased as a result of the scholarship program
financed by the project. A total of 8,000 children benefited from scholarships (original target: 750
students), which brought and kept most of the students in school. This contributed to reduced drop out rates
in the targeted municipalities. This outcome is significant, considering that many Nicaraguan children aged
7-13 are simultaneously studying and working (4).

Since 1997, the greatest increase in coverage was among the poorest segments of the population. Despite
these achievements, there are significant challenges ahead, as participation by the poorest in the education
system decreases in upper secondary and higher education (5).

The completion rate in primary education at the national level improved between 1997 and 2003. The
percentage of students who finished primary school in six years increased from 27 percent in 1997 to 41
percent in 2003, girls representing the largest share. Regarding the municipalities targeted by the project



                                                     - 4 -

(Condega, Achuapa, El Sauce, Ciudad Darío y San Isidro), MECD data showed an average increase of at
least 7 percentage points in completion rates (percentages varied by municipality from the beginning to the
end of the project, as shown below).

Table 1. Primary School
Completion Rate in Targeted Municipalities for Scholarship Program
Department           Municipality        Completion      Rate     Completion
                                         2000                     Rate 2004
Estelí               Condega             35.52                55.29
León                 Achuapa              22.99               37.70
                     El Sauce             20.92               31.14
Matagalpa            Cuidad Darío         29.43               44.08
                     San Isidro           31.50               49.69
Source: MECD data


Improved Quality and Efficiency of Education

Improving teacher performance through training. The quality of education was positively influenced by the
training provided to teachers throughout the years of project implementation. Studies carried out by
MECD (see Annex 7 for a list of studies) showed that teachers had developed ownership of the content of
the training received and were implementing the innovative teaching techniques and pedagogical
improvements supported by the MECD through the project. However, the studies pointed out the need to
improve the teachers' mastery of curriculum content.

Preschool volunteer teachers were trained in teaching methodologies, to prepare them for improved delivery
of preschool education services. As a result, classroom spaces were better organized and used. Further,
teachers were better prepared to help preschool students with language and mathematics development and
to undertake student assessments. Although the use of interactive teaching methodologies varied widely
among schools, progress was made in this area. At the primary level, improvements in teaching were
traceable to the quality training provided to teachers in multi-grade schools, which concentrated on
multi-grade methodologies, improving teachers' skills as facilitators, and fostering creativity. Training was
also successfully carried out in the Atlantic Coast, especially after the project's midterm review, positively
influencing the quality of teaching in that very poor region. In addition, teachers across the country were
trained in curriculum content in Spanish and Mathematics.

The main challenge to improve student achievement seems to be the quality of the teaching force. There are
still a large number of non-accredited teachers in the system (known as empirical teachers) who have not
received pre-service training and this number has increased in the period 1997-2002. This contributes to
explaining the low levels of achievements in the 2002 evaluation. Efforts need to be carried out to improve
the quality of the teaching force, through more pre-service and in-service training.

Another element that has contributed to improving quality is greater availability of textbooks, teacher's
guides, workbooks for students, and durable and non-durable materials for public primary schools. The
MECD provided textbooks for all students at the primary level, however, the main challenge was delivering
the books and materials to the schools by the beginning of the school year. The provision of libraries for
teachers of multi-grade schools and libraries for the teacher training schools (escuelas normales)
contributed to improving the quality of teaching. In the case of multi-grade schools, teachers also received
durable teaching materials, but not all students had access to textbooks during the life of the project.
Furthermore, there is no evaluation of the quality of the textbooks, guides and learning materials supplied



                                                     - 5 -

under the project.

Finally, improvements in school infrastructure in many remote and rural areas were crucial to improving
the quality of the school environment, and motivating students and teachers to attend school. Infrastructure
improvement was carried out in a very participatory manner, guaranteeing the efficient use of funds, timely
delivery, and good quality of the classrooms built. The positive effects of classroom construction were most
evident in the Atlantic region.

Raising students' learning achievements. With regard to improvements in quality, the PAD described the
use of comparative data from national standardized tests to measure students' learning achievements, to be
carried out during the life of the project. At the time of project approval, baseline data were not available.
The first evaluation of students' learning achievements in Nicaragua ­ sample based - was carried out in
2002. The next evaluation ­ census based - is planned to take place during 2005, which will provide data
for comparison. The 2002 evaluation was carried out on a sample of 415 schools, among students of 3rd
and 6th grade Mathematics and Spanish language. Achievements were classified as basic, intermediate and
proficient (6), depending upon the student's acquisition of curriculum knowledge. The results showed that a
small number of students in the 3rd level of primary public schools mastered the curriculum content (7.7
percent in mathematics and 14 percent in Spanish language). In the case of 6th grade students, the results
showed that 1.1 percent of students in mathematics and 5.1 percent of students in language mastered the
curriculum content (see Annex 9 for results table).

A study of learning achievement in autonomous schools was carried out in 2004, to complement and follow
up on the main findings of a previous study undertaken in 1999 (7). The learning achievements of students
from public autonomous schools were compared with those of other public schools. The study showed that
autonomous schools were performing at least as well as the centralized public schools, and although
student achievements in autonomous schools were not clearly better than those of other public schools, they
were not worse. However, the evidence of impact of the autonomous school model on learning
achievements was inconclusive (8).

The results of student learning achievements confirm that there are still serious quality problems in the
country education system, judging from the low performance of the majority of those at the primary school
level.

Improving internal efficiency. Drop out rates were reduced between 1997 and 2003 at both the preschool
and primary levels. The drop out rates decreased from around 16 percent in 1997 to 10 percent in 2003 in
preschool and from 11.3 percent to 6 percent in primary. Autonomous schools performed better than
regular schools in drop out and repetition rates. Between the same years, drop out rates went down from
6.08 percent in to 3.56 percent in autonomous centers (13.81 percent and 10.17 percent for regular schools
(9). Repetition rates during the same period went from 12.48 percent down to 10.95 percent. In addition,
there was improvement in teachers' school attendance and punctuality, and changes in behavior attributed
to their having received the performance incentive under the project. The studies on achievement and
retention of first grade students attending preschool showed that though preschool attendance did not have a
significant impact on achievement, it did have an important impact on reducing the drop out rate among
first grade students. (The same findings were also reported in the study on factors associated with
achievement).




                                                     - 6 -

Strengthened Institutional Capacity in the MECD

By supporting the consolidation of the national evaluation system, improvements in the supervision system,
and improvements in the management information system (MIS), the project had a positive impact on the
institutional capacity of the MECD.

The project supported the integration of the Evaluation Unit into the regular structure of the MECD. The
team in charge of evaluation was trained (including international training), and the skills needed for
managing complex evaluations were substantially improved through the project. The country carried out
for the first time a national evaluation of student learning achievements. The test was prepared and the
resulting data were processed and analyzed by the MECD Evaluation Unit. The results were widely
disseminated and discussed in the education community. This contributed to creating the basis for a culture
of evaluation and to introducing the concept of accountability in the education system. The project also
promoted self-evaluation by schools, a process assisted and guided by the MECD. The project supported
the strengthening of the supervision system, reorienting it from a system concerned with administrative
inspection toward providing teaching advice and support to teachers. A manual was developed by the
project and school personnel were trained in pedagogy and the workings of an autonomous school.

The project also improved the management information system (MIS) of the MECD. This further
contributed to creating a national system of monitoring and evaluation. Through the project, the MECD
acquired the basic computer equipment necessary for establishing the network between the central and local
levels. Although the MIS was not yet fully structured and integrated at all levels of the MECD or with the
financial management (SIGFA) system of the Ministry of Finance, by the time of project closing, it was
providing important data about the sector. For example, the results of student assessments were processed
by the MIS and made available to various education stakeholders.

The project promoted greater participation of civil society in school governance at the primary level, so that
school councils enhanced their participation in managing school affairs. The study on school autonomy
showed that between 1997 and 2004, school councils' decisions on school affairs increased by 11 percent.
School councils in regular autonomous schools participated in 77 percent of all school decisions made, and
those of the rural autonomous education groups (núcleos educativos rurales autónomos) participated in 68
percent of all school decisions made.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Expansion of Access and Coverage
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was successful in expanding access to preschool education in community preschools in
un-served areas (including areas with indigenous populations) and in expanding coverage through the
financing of a pilot scholarship program targeted to poor students in the 4th-6th grades who were at risk of
dropping out for economic reasons.

Analysis by subcomponent:

1.1.     Expanded access to community preschools. Overall this subcomponent did very well                 and
surpassed all but one of the targets set forth in the PAD. A total of 187 non-formal preschool classrooms
were built (original target: 200 classrooms), and learning materials were translated into three indigenous



                                                      - 7 -

languages. A total of 6,732 children of preschool age (target: 4,000 children) were enrolled as a result of
the availability of this infrastructure. The expansion of access was remarkable in the Atlantic coast, with
total enrollment of 8,328 children in preschool (target: 1,840 children) and a total of 375 educators (target:
98) in 244 schools. These results showed this preschool model to be a valid alternative to providing
preschool education in rural and marginal urban areas for children not reached by formal preschool
education.

Classroom construction was carried out through the SIMCEP (Sistema de Mejoramiento de Centros
Escolares de Primaria), an MECD infrastructure program which required the participation of parents and
school councils. Developed under APRENDE I for implementing works less than US$50,000 in value,
SIMCEP assigned to the community the responsibility of preparing proposals for infrastructure
improvements, selecting the firm to carry them out, and supervising and paying for the works. Parents and
the school councils were also involved in the maintenance of the preschools, which is key to the
sustainability of this infrastructure program.

Preschool classrooms were built close to a primary school. In some instances, some primary school
classrooms that were in poor condition were replaced with the project's preschool classrooms. The
classroom design was adequate, open and well ventilated. However, the lack of recreational areas in the
preschools is a shortcoming that should be addressed should resources become available.

1.2      Pilot scholarships. This subcomponent surpassed the targets set in the PAD. The pilot scholarship
program, started in five municipalities, reached 8,000 children in grades 4 - 6 (initial target: 750 children)
in 51 municipalities and 802 schools. The schools included in the program were selected using the
country's poverty map and education indicators (drop out and attendance rates) and included schools in the
mining areas in the country's west coast (10) . The scholarships were given to students from low income
rural families at risk of dropping out of school due to economic reasons. Each participating school received
an allowance for administering the scholarships well, an incentive which promoted teacher and school
participation and strengthened the pilot program. The allowance was mostly used to buy additional books
and materials for the schools (a fact verified by the Bank's visiting ICR mission).

Parents of children attending the schools selected for scholarships, MECD personnel, school principals, and
teachers received training for participation in the pilot. The training was based on an Operational Manual
(OM) and supplementary training materials. The OM contained the selection procedures, and criteria for
maintaining the scholarships, among other things. The scholarships amounted to US$150 equivalent per
year per child, and were awarded to students in 4th, 5th, and 6th grades. The scholarship money was given
directly to the mothers, who during the training were instructed to spend it on their children.

During the project's mid-term review, an evaluation of the pilot was carried out, and became the basis for
its expansion. The study showed that the program had a positive impact on increasing coverage,
punctuality, school attendance and classroom behavior. Furthermore, the study demonstrated that the
impact on drop out rates is not uniform and that improvements in student achievements were not
generalizable. Schools in certain municipalities showed better results than others, especially where the
degree of collaboration between teachers and parents was greater.

Though the MECD has supported this program, the long term continuity of the scholarship program will be
influenced by the results of a study to be launched to help create a single scholarship program and achieve
coordination of this and other existing programs that support families in need and other sectors.




                                                      - 8 -

Component 2. Improvement in Educational Quality
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component contributed to the improvement in educational quality by providing training to teachers at
preschool and primary level, providing key inputs to support the learning process such as textbooks and
learning materials and providing monetary resources to teachers.

2.1      Community preschool teacher training.          Through this subcomponent both newly recruited
community teachers and community teachers already in service were trained, to improve the quality of
preschool education. The subcomponent surpassed its training targets (3,900 community teachers,
including 180 teachers working with indigenous populations), having trained 6,340 teachers and teacher
trainers. The project trained a large number of teachers due to the high teacher turn around rate (11).
Inexperienced teachers were trained in the content of the community preschool model, the use of the
curricular content, child development, and pedagogical practice, while the more senior teachers were
trained in key areas for child development, the preschool curricular framework, and learning assessment
and evaluation.

Materials for the training program, (Modulos Didácticos de Intercapacitación) were developed in 2001. A
total of 64,140 modules were distributed during the life of the project. In addition, 7,600 more modules will
be distributed for the 2005 training.

Under this subcomponent, around 230 mobile trainers (capacitadores itinerantes, created in 1996 under
APRENDE I), who were the more experienced preschool educators, and 144 municipal-level technical staff
were provided allowances for visiting preschools to assist the inexperienced volunteer teachers in the
classroom and to supervise the community preschool teachers.

The evaluation of the training programs revealed that the programs were highly valued by teachers; that
trained teachers worked better in the classroom; that they acquired the skills to teach basic mathematics and
language at the preschool level; and that the training had helped them to provide a climate of trust and
confidence in the classrooms. The evaluation also showed that the modules were useful.

In 21 Community Interactive Preschools, a pilot training program was launched for teachers to acquire new
pedagogical techniques to apply in the classroom. The pilot schools received one TV set, one video tape
recorder, a radio-casette tape recorder, and video materials related to childhood development. Teachers
were trained in the use of these tools in the classroom with children and in meetings with parents.

2.2      Incentives for preschool teachers. Under this subcomponent, a total of 6,340 community educators
(volunteer teachers for preschools) received financial compensation (12). The target set in the PAD was
surpassed (5,700 educators). Through this subcomponent, the preschool educators were retained and new
educators were attracted to the program. The teachers received up to US$216 per year, which amounted to
over US$3.4 million over the life of the project.

The teachers were provided the financial compensation according to a formula developed by the project,
which took into account the individual teacher's attendance and the rate of pupil retention. Parents were
involved in assisting the school principal in checking teacher attendance, which was reported to the local
municipality that paid the stipend and reported the information to central MECD. For remote preschools,
the MECD Division of Preschool Education assisted the municipality by sending personnel to deliver the
stipend to the preschool teachers.


                                                      - 9 -

2.3      Materials for preschool education. Through this subcomponent, teaching and learning materials,
both durable and non-durable, were provided to all new preschools, to improve the learning process. Some
9,750 sets of durable books and games and 24,520 packages of non-durable materials for teachers and
24,120 packages for children were provided. In addition, 2,780 packages of learning materials were
provided in 2004 to 3rd­level (5-year-old) preschool students to reinforce mathematics and reading skills.
The availability of learning materials in schools improved the classroom learning environment, provided
better stimulation, and enhanced the quality of teaching and the development of children's skills. According
to the teachers, parents were happier and more inclined to send children to preschool when they knew that
the children would be learning math and writing in the 3rd level of preschool.

A total of 19,734 curriculum guides for teachers were distributed to educators. In the Atlantic Coast, these
teacher guides were translated into Miskito, Mayagna, and English and a total of 550 guides were
distributed in each language. A teacher's guide was developed to cover multigrade instruction in the three
preschool years, and 11,184 were distributed.

To strengthen reading, writing, and math skills among preschoolers, curriculum guides for the 3rd level
were prepared, and 8,000 copies were distributed. In addition, 117,300 workbooks were distributed to
support skill development in preschoolers; 8,300 of these were distributed in the Atlantic coast in native
languages, about 30,000 were for multigrade instruction, and 79,000 copies supported skill-building of 3rd
level preschoolers in mathematics, reading, and writing.

In the area of early childhood development, health and care for children aged 0­6, flash cards were
provided for parents to take home to work with their children; teachers record and note books were also
provided (quantities listed in Annex 1).

2.4      Teacher training for primary school teachers. This sub-component           supported the following
training activities: (i) subject content in Spanish and mathematics for 1st and 2nd grade teachers, reaching
90 percent of the target 2,700 teachers; (ii) teaching methodologies in multigrade instruction for rural
teachers of primary education, reaching 15 percent of the target 900 teachers; (iii) active teaching and
curricular development for rural schools, reaching 68 educators of teacher training schools (escuelas
rurales normales); and (iv) Spanish as a second language for 413 teachers (out of the target 300 teachers)
and training in the native languages for 213 principals, teachers and technical staff of the bilingual
education program. In addition, around 35,000 primary school teachers were trained in the use of the
guides provided under the project and in education standards (which was not included in the PAD).

The teacher training programs were evaluated by the teachers themselves, and the evaluation was very
positive in terms of the training content and its delivery. In general, the training was highly valued by
teachers who also expressed their views on how to make the courses more effective. Besides these
evaluations, there was a report on the classroom impact of the training provided (prepared by an external
consultant per MECD request). This report showed that the training had a positive impact on classroom
planning, the use of teaching resources, the definition of objectives prior to coming to class, and the ability
to relate reading material to the lesson at hand. According to the teachers, the central MECD and the above
mentioned report, the main shortcoming of the training was the lack of an overall training plan that would
have given internal consistency to the different training activities. The various evaluations showed that the
teachers needed further training in the core curriculum subjects of language and mathematics and more
follow up support after training to translate the knowledge acquired to actual classroom practice.

2.5      Textbooks, library books, and other materials. This sub-component succeeded in meeting or


                                                     - 10 -

exceeding most of its targets. It made available to all grade 1 to 6 students textbooks for the main subject
areas of Spanish, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, and Ethics and Civics, surpassing the targets set in
the PAD (by 147 percent). The sub-component financed the provision of workbooks for students as well as
teacher guides for the primary school level.

In the case of multi-grade instruction, the project prepared and distributed 778,282 teaching guides (149
percent of target) developed on the basis of the needs identified and by selected characteristics of
multigrade schools. These special materials for grades 1­6 were provided to all 4,929 multigrade schools
across the country, a key step to improve the quality of education for these students.

The project financed the publication of 355,806 textbooks (121 percent of target) in the native languages of
Miskito, Creole, and Mayagna, to meet the educational needs of these ethnic groups on the Caribbean
coast.

A total of 3,000 sets of library books for the multigrade schools, 800 sets of teachers library books, and 20
sets of library books for rural teacher training schools (escuelas normales) all across the country were
provided. This improved the capacity of both students and teachers to undertake research, extra reading,
and documentation-gathering. In addition, teachers in the native languages received 22,600 packages of
consumable materials (146 percent of target).
This subcomponent also provided a total of 21,500 geometry sets, 29,000 posters for natural sciences, and
45,750 posters for social studies, to help improve the quality of learning in the classrooms, and provided
TV sets and video equipment to 50 mini-centers for training (minicentros de intercapacitación).

2.6      Primary school infrastructure and teacher housing. This subcomponent successfully supported the
efforts to increase coverage and improve the quality of the school environment. A total of 416 classrooms
were replaced in autonomous primary schools (336 in the Pacific Coast and 80 in the Atlantic Coast),
benefiting 17, 690 students. This represents 114 percent and 143 percent of the respective targets set in the
PAD, respectively. Regarding classroom rehabilitation, a total of 461 classrooms were rehabilitated (436
in the Pacific and 25 of them in the Atlantic), benefiting 20,406 children. This represents 200 percent and
147 percent of the respective targets set in the PAD.

All classrooms rehabilitated or replaced were furnished under the project. The subcomponent exceeded its
targets so much because the actual cost per classroom was lower than appraisal estimates and because the
old classroom designs were maintained rather than changed. The subcomponent also financed the
construction of 34 sleeping quarters for teachers surpassing the target (32 sleeping quarters) established in
the PAD. This was a pilot, and the houses were largely used as the teachers' second house, an incentive for
retaining teachers in their place of original assignment.

All physical improvements were carried out through the SIMCEP (Sistema de Mejoramiento de Centros
Escolares de Primaria), an MECD procedure that assigned to school councils the responsibility to choose
the contractors, hire them, and manage the rehabilitation or construction. This procedure was efficient and
effective, contributed to the decentralization process, and provided high quality works. It also fostered the
involvement of the community, and their increased contribution to school infrastructure improvements and
maintenance.

2.7      Fondo Sonrisa. The project supported this pilot fund to foster interest in extra-curricular school
activities. By project closing, a total of 2,760 sub-projects had been financed in regular and multi-grade
primary schools across the country (142 percent of the PAD target). A total of 39,596 students and 2,760
teachers participated in the preparation and implementation of subprojects, with parents participating


                                                     - 11 -

actively. The sub-projects supported were mostly in rural schools. An operational manual containing the
criteria and procedure for selection of sub-projects, among other things, was prepared and used during
project implementation. The pilot was well accepted in the schools and students and teachers expressed
that it contributed to boost their self-esteem and ties with their communities. The subprojects were varied,
bringing the schools closer to the community. The projects were financed for three years and then
discontinued upon exhaustion of project funding.

2.8      Incentive for primary school teachers and principals. The objective of this sub-component was to
foster teacher performance improvement and school autonomy. The project paid incentives to teachers,
principals, and special teachers in autonomous schools, based on their attendance record, punctuality and
their ability to keep their students attending class throughout the school year. The project paid around
US$7.12 million under this sub-component, in line with the initial PAD allocation. A total of 16,800
teachers and principals received incentives (PAD target of 20,800) at an average amount of 1,500
Córdobas per year. The delay in passing the School Autonomy Law (Ley de Participación Educativa of
March 2002) which would guide the increases in the number of autonomous schools per year, influenced
the number of teachers who received the incentive. MECD indicated that the incentive had a positive
influence in teacher attendance and punctuality.

Parent School Councils checked teacher's school attendance and whether teachers were teaching the
required five hours per day and reported this to MECD authorities and to at the local delegations or
municipal representatives.

Project Components 3. Institutional Strengthening and Modernization.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was successful in strengthening the evaluation and monitoring capacity of MECD as well
as the management and supervision capacity at the local level.

3.1      Training of school council and principals. This subcomponent successfully trained 33,775 school
principals, MECD personnel at the municipal level, and members of school councils from autonomous
schools (target: 35,900 personnel). Training concentrated on school management and in particular on the
School Autonomy Law and its norms and public ethics. In addition, around 1,500 school principals were
trained in management, for the improved running of the autonomous schools (125% of PAD target). The
sub-component achieved its objective of fostering greater school autonomy, the targets were met, although
implementation was delayed owing to the setbacks in approving the School Autonomy Law.

Under this sub-component,       "schools for parents" (escuelas de padres) were piloted in 93 schools.
Manuals and guides were prepared for this pilot, and principals, teachers, and supervisors were trained in
the concept of autonomous schools (escuelas participativas) open to their communities. Learning materials
targeted to parents were provided. Around 40,000 parents were trained starting in September 2004 in the
themes of environment, peace and order, and harmonizing the education students received at home with
their schooling experience.

3.2      Campaigns to Support School Autonomy. The implementation of this sub-component was affected
by the delays in approving the School Autonomy Law. A total of three communication campaigns were
carried out by the project, with the main goals of promoting the autonomous school model, disseminating
information on the voluntary preschool model, and caring for textbooks. In 2000, the communications
campaign to disseminate the preschool model was carried out through radio, information panels, and
promotional materials. In 2001, the information campaign was on the education participation process. An


                                                     - 12 -

additional communications campaign was carried out in 2004, this time by the MECD central office itself.
The textbooks maintenance campaign identified in the project was not carried out.

3.3     National evaluation system. This sub-component was successful in laying a foundation for a
national evaluation system. The project supported the following activities: training of the technical unit
within the MECD; designing and applying the first sets of tests, and analyzing their results. Although a
year later than originally planned, in 2002 the MECD applied Mathematics and Spanish standardized tests
in the 3rd and 6th grades of primary school, to measure students' learning achievements. The test was
administered to a sample of 415 schools. In addition to the test, a questionnaire was given to school
principals, teachers, parents, and students to identify those factors affecting students' learning
achievements. Annex 9 presents a summary of the findings.

The above assessment was initially planned for 2001, but it was delayed by one year. Since project
inception, MECD had hesitated to move faster on the application of tests and this was accentuated during
2001 due to the reluctance to apply the tests during the same year that national elections were being held.
Although the project as described in the PAD did not establish that a second standardized test would be
carried out before project closing (the original project implementation period was only three years), there
was a need and an expectation to carry out a second test, to be able to compare the results (since
improvement in students' achievement was an outcome indicator). The MECD determined that the next
round of tests will be applied in 2005, after the completion of this project. Nonetheless, through the project,
the MECD evaluation unit personnel were trained (masters degree studies were financed by the project).
This technical team has the capacity to plan assessment programs, develop tests, administer them, and
analyze the results.

3.4     Monitoring and evaluation. This sub-component financed the acquisition of hardware consisting
of servers and 693 computers, of which 523 went to the departmental (provincial) education offices and
municipal offices. By project completion, all the equipment had been distributed to the offices, with
maintenance provided for three years, until 2007. The project also developed the software adapted to the
requirements of the MECD's information needs for budgeting and accounting. The development of this
financial module lasted until 2002, as adaptations to new requirements needed to be made with the change
in Government in 2001. The module included a sub-module on human resources (with salary information
on teachers). However, the module was not integrated with the GON system of the government's network,
as the data must travel on the MECD module through the Internet, which is not yet adopted as a standard
by the government's network (13). During the project, a pilot was tested on 65 schools to develop and use a
file on education data. At project completion, MECD databases had been reinforced and the national team
was working to achieve a fully integrated management information system, one in which MECD databases
were interconnected.

Other activities carried out under this subcomponent include the study on decentralization, which was a
follow up to the 1995-99 study. This study provided information on the academic performance of students
and on the degree of participation of the school councils in the management of the schools. The study
applied tests to 4th grade in primary and 3rd year in secondary in 165 schools. The results were widely
disseminated among the school community.

Under this component two other activities were carried out: one was the school self evaluation system,
which was initiated and extended to 600 schools. Technical assistance was provided for the training of
school and MECD personnel. By project closing, around 400 of those schools had already prepared reports
gathering the main conclusions of the self evaluation exercise. The credit financed the acquisition of an
optic reader to read tests and their results.


                                                    - 13 -

Finally, under this subcomponent, a set of evaluations of the teacher training for pre-school and primary
teachers were carried out as well as evaluations of the pre-school interventions and the scholarship
program.

3.5      Supervision. This sub-component supported the revision and implementation of the country's
supervision system. A total of 1,200 pedagogical advisors (or school supervisors) were trained to provide
technical advice and support to teachers. To strengthen the capacity of education offices at the municipal
level, a total of 160 sets of reference books for libraries and 60 facsimile transmission machines were
distributed.    The training provided to the supervisors was highly valued by the beneficiaries but
unfortunately not evaluated. During the ICR mission, the feedback from school principals and classroom
teachers on the work of supervisors was positive.

The project supported the development and implementation of school-level development projects (PDE) all
over the country. From a pilot program in 40 schools in the Atlantic region, by project closing around 400
schools had received training to prepare PDEs, and 120 schools had completed their PDE. An operational
manual was prepared, and information on the PDE was disseminated in Managua, Carazo, Masaya,
Granada, Matagalpa Jinotega, and Boaco.

3.6      Preparation of an APL. This subcomponent successfully financed activities (workshops and a
study on educational spending) oriented towards the development of a Government strategy for preschool
and primary education. Activities under this subcomponent contributed to the technical preparation of the
education sector operation under which donors are working together to support the Government's sector
programs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's impact on institutional development is considered modest. The project succeeded in the
following:
·        Strengthening the Evaluation Unit of the MECD: The unit's personnel were trained at the masters
degree level in different areas of evaluation. These technical experts have remained in the MECD after
project closing;

·        Initiating changes towards a culture of evaluation in the MECD, and by extension, in the education
system: with project support, steps were taken toward establishing evaluation as a familiar feature of
education administration and using evaluation data to inform policy decisions;

·        Strengthening the supervision system by refocusing it away from administrative inspection and
toward pedagogical assistance to teachers. A team of six MECD experts was trained by the project and
continued working in MECD after the closing of the project; and

·        Fostering greater participation of school councils in the management and decision making of the
schools, through support to members (parents, teachers, and principals), thus increasing school
accountability.



                                                    - 14 -

Overall, at project completion, the education sector still faced great challenges in terms of developing
institutional capacity. The basic elements for a good and efficient MIS were put in place by the project at
the local and central levels of MECD. The next challenge for MECD in this area is to achieve an
integration of the existing databases, strengthened with project support over the past years.

By credit closing and during preparation of the follow on project, MECD opted for working directly with
the ministry's directorate units to implement the new sector operation and avoid maintaining or creating a
PCU to lead project implementation. A number of technical personnel who belonged to the PCU continued
its work within the MECD. This also points to the progress made in strengthening human resources within
MECD.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Socio-economic conditions. Despite the improvement in the country's macroeconomic indicators in the last
few years, Nicaragua remained, during the project implementation period, the second poorest country in the
region. This reality limited the impact that the interventions of this project could make. The APRENDE
program, comprising two successive Bank-financed projects, provided critical inputs to the education
system for nearly a decade, and thereby helped to improve the country's education indicators. However, the
country's starting point on the road to development and status of its education sector (in terms of
infrastructure, teachers, materials, and management) were below those of neighboring countries in Latin
America.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Start of project implementation. This project was approved by the Board in 1999 but started
implementation only in early 2001 because of delays in meeting the effectiveness conditions. However,
some project activities, notably classroom construction, started in late 2000, using funds from the
predecessor project APRENDE I (Credit No. 2689-NI) which was closing that year.

Rate of expansion of the school autonomy program. The project intended for school autonomy to extend
to all schools in the system by the end of 2001. This intention was not realized because in 2001 the needed
counterpart budgets for the salaries of teaches recruited for autonomous schools were not available in the
required amounts or in a timely manner, slowing the expansion of the autonomy program. In turn, this
limited the project's ability to expend funds from the Credit to provide related support (training, materials,
grants) to schools that were to become autonomous, following the project implementation schedule. The
school autonomy process was halted in 2002 and it did not resume again until 2004.

Political events. The government supported the aims and activities of both APRENDE projects, which was
key to successful implementation over a ten-year period. Still, significant delays occurred that negatively
impacted both the project and the sector. Notably, the inability to administer a second evaluation that, while
not originally envisaged under the project, would in any event have provided valuable information on what
and how much students learned.

Personnel changes. After the elections in 2001, a new government administration came into office in 2002,
which brought changes in key management personnel in the MECD. The resulting adjustments in the
working relationships between the PCU and the MECD slowed the pace of project implementation.



                                                     - 15 -

Strategic guidance. Preschool education and teacher training, two large investments of the project, would
have benefited from coherent sector strategies that would have made those investments achieve greater
impact. The elaboration of sector strategies for these areas was not included as a specific activity in the
PAD. Although the need was identified during implementation and project resources were made available to
support policy development studies that would address the need, the studies were not undertaken.

The relationship between the MECD and the PCU. The PCU worked closely with the main units in
MECD, but it worked as an entity separate from MECD. The PCU worked very closely with line ministry
units to implement the project activities, involving MECD personnel in the technical development of the
project. But this separation also created tensions with MECD. This contributed to a perception of the
project as being outside of MECD, as mentioned in section 7.6.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Project management.        The PCU maintained its core management and technical team across the
implementation of two projects. This contributed to the successful implementation of project actions, the
good working relationships with the beneficiary units within the MECD, and the maintenance of
institutional memory.
Classroom design. During project development, the MECD proposed funding a new classroom prototype,
the construction of which could have cost 35 percent higher than that of the existing classroom design.
During project implementation, the MECD decided to revert to the existing design, resulting in savings for
the government.
Textbook distribution. The lack of an adequate system for delivering and storing teaching and learning
materials resulted in delays, losses, and waste. The ICR mission observed that in most years, the textbooks
and other learning materials seldom arrived in time for school opening even though they had been procured
and delivered to central MECD on time.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Initially the PAD foresaw a total project cost of US$58.40 million equivalent, with an IDA contribution of
US$52.56 million equivalent (SDR39.3 million) and US$5.79 million equivalent by the Borrower. By
credit closing, IDA's contribution amounted to US$52.98 million equivalent (or SDR39.28 million) and the
Borrower's to US$6.82 million equivalent. During the life of the project, credit resources were reallocated
among disbursement categories to adjust to the changes in the project components, as implementation
progressed. More credit and counterpart funds were allocated to finance activities under Component 1
Expansion of Preschool and Primary Coverage (see Annex 2), in particular the acquisition of learning
materials, teachers' incentives and the scholarship programs. The actual cost of classroom construction for
primary education was lower than foreseen at the time of the PAD approval. Once implementation started,
MECD opted for a classroom model which costed lower that budgeted in the PAD, allowing to build a
higher than expected number of classrooms for primary level. The Borrower requested the extension of the
credit in three occasions to finish the execution of project actions.




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR rating: Likely.




                                                     - 16 -

The likelihood of sustaining this operation may be inferred through two key characteristics: (i) continued
financial support to the principal activities of the operation; and (ii) maintenance of the institutional
arrangements for undertaking the principal activities of the operation. This project exhibits both
characteristics. The financial sustainability is discussed in this subsection, the institutional sustainability is
discussed in the succeeding section.

The ICR mission found that the programs initiated by the project to expand coverage and improve quality
at the preschool and primary level were budgeted for in 2005, confirming longer-term sustainability of
those programs.

The project's major achievements are likely to be sustained in the future. However, the main challenge for
the sustainability of project actions is the scarcity of resources within the MECD budget to finance them in
the years to come.

The sustainability of the incentives for primary school teachers and compensation for volunteer preschool
teachers is guaranteed for 2005, the funds therefore having been included in the MECD budget.
Nevertheless, without foreign assistance to compel the provision of counterpart funds, the budgets for these
recurrent costs (as for textbooks and for training) could be reduced or cancelled in the future; the
availability of national funds being dependent on the country's macroeconomic performance. Despite
scarcity of resources, Nicaragua's good sector performance has gained the confidence of donors, who are
likely to continue supporting key sectoral achievements.

In this regard, the local donor group recently approved a Common Work Program (CWP) for the education
sector. Nicaragua has received a donation of US$7 million from the Education for All-Fast Track Initiative
(EFA-AFI) catalytic fund and a further US$14 million are in the pipeline. Other donors, namely the
European Union, Canada and Denmark have made sector budget support resources available to finance the
CWP for the education sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

By credit closing, the PCU had been dissolved and key technical experts appointed to MECD advisory,
management and technical positions. The latter guaranteed a smooth transition from project to regular
MECD operation and facilitated coordinated work between the APRENDE team and the team who
prepared the follow-on IDA-supported education project (PASEN). The new project was approved by IDA
in September 2004 and by the Nicaraguan Congress in February 2005.

Government commitment to the project resulting in continuous progress in the education sector earned for
the country the sustained support of donors. By project completion, donors had agreed to work with
Nicaragua to support the education sector through a Sector Wide Approach operation (SWAp), of which
PASEN is a part, supporting the strengthening of the education system and including certain key activities
(notably preschool education, evaluation, and MIS) all areas supported under APRENDE.

There are other positive signs that point to the likely mainstreaming into the education system of
project-initiated activities:
·        The MECD is keeping the technical experts who worked during the project period and were trained
         under the project, in the MECD evaluation unit;
·        The MECD will carry out a national census based student learning assessment in 2005;
·        The autonomous schools under the project: (i) have performed a self-evaluation exercise
         and promise to implement the main recommendations resulting from this experience; and


                                                      - 17 -

        (ii) are developing their own education development plans which will bring in parents and school
        councils into the process;
·       The MIS basic elements have been developed and achieving an integrated system is a priority for
        the MECD for 2005, for which MECD counts on donor support for future years;
·       Greater awareness of the provision of preschool services and higher demand of these services by
        families;
·       Likelihood to achieve a fair maintenance of the classrooms built, due to the engagement and
        ownership of the parents and the community in their design and construction.

A challenge for institutional sustainability is the practice of personnel rotation among members of the
school councils, which could result in costly retraining in the concept and practice of school autonomy, a
risk recognized by the MECD.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. IDA's performance during preparation was satisfactory. IDA had been successfully working
with the country to support the main development goals for the sector and provided emergency support for
the sector in the reconstruction in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch in 1998. The close collaboration and
ongoing sector dialogue allowed for the this project to be designed jointly with the Borrower. The rating
would have been highly satisfactory but for two reasons: (i) the design was overly ambitious in expecting
that Nicaragua could establish an education evaluation system where none had existed before, expecting to
administer two testing episodes (though only one was required in the PAD), and compare the results all
within one project implementation period; and (ii) the outcome indicators for measuring the achievement of
development objectives were not fully defined. While values for these indicators were not defined in the
PAD, the project included a detailed definition of outputs, which was more complete than what other
projects were including during that period.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. IDA supervision is rated satisfactory with some qualifications. On the positive side, IDA
worked closely to assist the Borrower in implementing the project. The dialogue was very fluid, and the
IDA team and the Borrower successfully reviewed project progress during implementation (in particular
during the mid-term review) to better focus the project and achieve tangible impacts. The IDA team
supported the Borrower in piloting the project interventions and encouraged the Borrower to expand the
coverage of those interventions when it became evident that positive impact was being achieved ( e.g., the
scholarship program). IDA extended the project implementation period three times, to help the Borrower
make up for the effectiveness delay, the lack of available and timely counterpart funds, and the need to
complete some classrooms in remote locations. This showed IDA's ability to adapt to the country's needs
and to be flexible to enable the Borrower to meet physical targets and achieve project objectives.

IDA regularly supervised the project, emphasizing the importance of monitoring and generating indicators
to identify the impact of project actions. Further, IDA's criticism of project impact had a constructive
effect, making the Borrower focus the project actions and look at their effect on the education system as a
whole. On the other hand, changes in task managers created tensions with the Borrower's PCU, which at
one point expressed its perception of lack of support for or inadequate attention to the project on the part
of the IDA team. By project completion, however, the IDA team had restored its working relationship with
the PCU.



                                                   - 18 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
·        Strong and continuous support to the Borrower;
·        Flexible response to the country's needs;
·        Regular supervision and timely extension of the project implementation period;
·        Constructive feed-back on impact of project actions and emphasis on the importance of good
         monitoring and availability of sector indicators.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The MECD and the PCU worked closely with IDA's assistance in project preparation and
took into consideration the recommendations of the evaluations of APRENDE I in designing this follow-on
project. The project preparation team included strong support to the Atlantic region to enhance equity in the
provision of education services. By the time of project closing, achievements in this targeted area had
surpassed original targets.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Government performance is rated satisfactory with some qualifications. The Government
provided sustained support to the education sector and maintained the priorities agreed with IDA for the
education sector throughout the life of the project. With delays especially after the 2001 elections, the
Government nevertheless advanced the propagation of the autonomous school model, which the project
was supporting. However, it failed to provide timely counterpart support, which disrupted the pace of
project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The MECD and the PCU showed commitment throughout project implementation. The PCU
was composed of qualified professionals who worked very well with officials and staff in the various
divisions in the MECD to implement project-supported activities in preschool and primary education,
teacher training and MIS. The PCU also conducted its daily business in an efficient and transparent
manner.

There were delays in implementing the evaluation activities but, once the elections were finalized, the
MECD and the PCU moved forward quickly on this and successfully administered the tests, analyzed and
distributed the results, contributing positively to the creation of an evaluation culture in education.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
·        Overall commitment to the education sector goals;
·        Maintenance of the core personnel in the PCU during the life of the program (APRENDE I and
         II), despite changes in administration;
·        Coordinated work between MECD units and the PCU, transferring knowledge to the main
         Ministry;
·        High quality of procurement and financial management, resulting in the efficient use of project
         resources;
·        Achievement and exceeding of project targets and objectives on most sub-components.




                                                      - 19 -

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons from design
Choosing adequate indicators can support assessing progress towards achievement of outcomes. It is
important to select adequate indicators to measure the impact of project interventions and to define values
for them, prior to project approval. Though a good definition of project outputs can help monitor project's
progress, it is crucial to define outcome indicators from the beginning of project implementation to assess
the achievement of project development objectives along the way.

When targeted to the underprivileged, scholarships help to keep students in school. While working to
expand access, interventions focused on the demand for education can be successful to reach the most
excluded. Scholarships targeted to those in the poorer areas brought impressive results in the retention of
poor students who were provided scholarships by the project.

Non- formal education can increase preschool enrollment. Promoting a non-formal model for preschool
can be an effective way to expand coverage and generate demand, especially in a system characterized by
scarce resources.    In the case of Nicaragua, the non-formal model attracted children to school, and
motivated educators to continue in the system. The non-formal model has helped achieve greater equity at
the preschool level but it also created imbalances within the system, as it put greater weight on the
volunteer educators versus the weight of the formal system.

Large investments in teacher training should be based on clear strategies. The impact of investments in
teacher training on improving the quality of education would be greater if these investments are framed
within a clear strategy for pre-service and in-service teacher training. The absence of a strategic view into
teacher training became a serious hindrance in discerning training's meaningful impact on teachers and
training's role in the improvement in the quality of teaching and learning. In the case of this project, the
training was highly valued by teachers, but the teachers themselves were the first ones to acknowledge that
the training lacked consistency, continuity, and coordination that could have been provided through
strategic policy guidance.

Lessons from implementation

Project implementers, even of conventional projects, should focus on outcomes. Though it is key to
progress in implementation to focus on project inputs and outputs, the implementation leaders should not
loose perspective and remain focused on outcomes and the impact of project actions on the sector.

Communications are important. Better understanding of the activities being implemented by a Ministry
can help win participation from key stakeholders and increase the impact of project actions. In the case of
the project, although the PAD foresaw a role for communication campaigns, these were not used
systematically and were less effective than they could have been in promoting the autonomous school
model, the better use of textbooks or greater enrollment in preschool.

Involving the community in education infrastructure activities pays off in cost-effectiveness in
construction and maintenance. In the case of Nicaragua, the SIMCEP, which required the participation
of individual parents and school councils, was an effective mechanism for raising the quality of the
construction, improving the monitoring and supervision of the works, and increasing the sense of ownership
of this infrastructure by the community as evidenced by parents' voluntary support to the maintenance of



                                                    - 20 -

the school. The school councils, with the support from the PCU, were able to identify, bid and execute the
works.

Development and implementation of a student evaluation system requires close support by IDA. The
development and implementation of a national student evaluation system requires close support from IDA,
due to the amount of technical assistance and accompanying that needs to be provided to establish a solid
capacity in a Ministry of Education. This task has demonstrated to take longer than the life of one project
to be established and institutionalized in a country. It is important to take into account the supervision
requirements that the inclusion of this type of activity might have in project implementation and make the
budget provisions accordingly.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower provided a summary of the main achievements under the project, which is included in Annex
8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Notes

(1) Source MECD data. The NER for preschool in 2004 in the RAAN reached 38.49 percent and 13.48 in the RAAS.

(2) The PAININ program - financed by IADB- implemented by the Ministerio de la Familia, intended to cover children ages
0-3 but during implementation, it was extended to cover ages 4 to 6. MECD decided that some of the children ages 4 to 6 to be
covered by the non-formal APRENDE II preschool were to be included in PAININ, affecting the enrollment in non-formal
preschool. Besides, some non-formal preschool classrooms have been transformed into formal preschools during the life of the
project).

(3) Though there has been progress in increasing enrollment rates along the years, the NER in primary has decreased 3
percentage points between 2002 (85. 4 percent) and 2004 (82.5 percent).          This reflects the increase in the school-age
population growth.

(4) Source: Estado del Sistema de Educacion Basica y Media. 2004. MECD.

(5) Source: Estado del Sistema de Educacion Basica y Media. 2004. MECD.

(6) Achieving Basic level meant that students have poor mastering of curriculum competencies; intermediate meant better
acquisition of curriculum competencies and proficient meant that the student mastered all the competencies and content of the
curriculum.

(7) "Otro vistazo a la autonomía escolar de Nicaragua: Aceptación y Percepción en 2004". MECD, Dec. 2004. Nicaragua
introduced the autonomous school model in 1993, as a way to rebuild the social contract between parents and teachers in the
schools. It was conceived as a management and administrative tool that would foster participation and better use of resources
allocated to schools at local level. The APRENDE Project was intended to support the autonomous school model. The
Participation Law was approved in 2002, officially creating the legal framework for the mentioned model.

(8) It is important to highlight that the main objective of introducing autonomous schools was to increase popular participation
in school management and bring schools closer to their communities. Improving learning achievements was not the primary




                                                               - 21 -

goal for choosing this school model.

(9) Source: "Otro vistazo a la autonomía escolar de Nicaragua: Aceptación y Percepción en 2004". MECD.

(10) The Operational Manual and the evaluation of the program are available in the project files. School selected for this
program were multigrade, poor and accessible to students.

(11) APRENDE II lost a high number of teachers to the program financed by IADB - PAININ - which targeted the same age
group children, and paid teachers higher salaries.

(12) Community educators who received the monetary compensation were voluntary teachers. This compensation was not
equivalent to the salary that formal teachers received.

(13) The GON developed in 2001/2002 a MIS called SIGFA (Sistema Integrado de Gestion Financiera y Auditoria), controlled
by the Ministry of Finance to formulate and execute the national budget. The system contains four modules. The system has
allowed to integrate the sub-systems of budgeting, accounting and treasury (tesoreria) and allows to follow month by month the
national accounts and compare it to the national budget. The system is at present functioning in 38 public institutions, which
use SIGFA to produce their reports on their budget execution by programs and projects. The MIS system developed by MECD
is not yet integrated with SIGFA. Though it is technically possible, there has not been the institutional willingness to move this
integration forward.




                                                            - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Primary completion rate increased from **%     No target specified                 Completion rates in Targeted municipalities
to **% in targeted municipalities.                                                 in 2004: (Baseline page 5 Table 1)

                                                                                   Condega:        55.29%
                                                                                   Achuapa:        37.70%
                                                                                   El Sauce:       31.14%
                                                                                   Ciudad Dario: 44.08%
                                                                                   San Isidro:     49.69%

Improved student performance on                No target specified                 2002 Student Learning Evaluation Results
standardized tests of 3rd and 6th grade                                            showed that a small number of 3rd grade
Spanish and mathematics.                                                           students mastered the curriculum content
                                                                                   (7.7% in mathematics and 14% in Spanish
                                                                                   language). In the case of 6th grade students,
                                                                                   the results were 1.1% in mathematics and
                                                                                   5.1% in Spanish language.

Increase from xxx to yyy in share of           No target specified                 Between 1997 and 2004 school council's
autonomous schools demonstrating School                                            decisions on school affairs increased by
Council involvement in decision-making                                             11%.
(de-facto autonomy).

Increase in number of preschool places by                                          By project closing, additional preschool
4,000 in targeted municipalities (about 1,840                                      places had been created for 6,732 children
of it in indigenous areas).                                                        (about xxxx in indigenous areas).

Increase from **% to **% in 4th-6th grade                                          Data for participation rate in 1998 and 2003/4
participation rate in targeted municipalities,                                     in targeted municipalities.
attributable to APRENDE scholarship                                                8,000 students received scholarships during
program.                                                                           the life of the project.

Preschool teachers demonstrate improved                                            Post training test not carried out. Teacher
understanding of child development and                                             training evaluations indicate that teachers are
preschool curriculum delivery on post-training                                     implementing innovative teaching techniques.
test.                                                                              Classroom spaces are better organized.
                                                                                   Teachers better prepared to deliver preschool
                                                                                   education services.
Students with community-preschool access                                           Study showed that preschool attendance did
demonstrate better performance in primary                                          not have a significant impact on achievement,
school.                                                                            but it did have an impact on reducing drop
                                                                                   out rates among first grade students.
At least ** % of first grade primary teachers                                      End-training test not performed under the
pass an end-training-test.                                                         project.

At least ** percent of multigrade primary                                          Active teaching techniques applied in
teachers in randomly visited schools are                                           multigrade schools with different degrees of
observed to use active teaching techniques.                                        implementation.

Reallocation of MECD resources from central                                        Progress in the school autonomous process.
administration to schools.                                                         The process was slowed down due to the
                                                                                   delay in passing the School Autonomy Law.

Key management information and student                                             Complied with. The MECD generated
assessment results produced in an accurate                                         regularly data on the education system, which
and timely manner and supplied to schools.                                         accessible to key stakeholders and schools.


Note: Values for indicators were not defined in the PAD




                                                                 - 23 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
ACCESS AND COVERAGE                              End of project
                                                    Targets
 Community preschool classrooms built in              200                            187 classrooms built
selected municipalities


QUALITY-
Community preschool teachers trained                3,910                            6,340 teachers trained


Community preschool teacher receiving                5,737                            6,340 teachers paid
incentives


Preschool learning materials:

 Sets of durable didactic materials                  5,850                                9,750

 Sets of non-durable didactic materials             16,090                               24,520

 Students workbooks                                292,220                              117,300

 Preschool training materials (to work with        320,060                              299,586
parents)

 Manuals for teachers and promoters                   7,195                              19,734


Teachers from multigrade schools, normales            5,950                                900
rurals and technical staff from MECD trained

1st grade teachers trained                            3,000                               2,700

Principals trained                                    1,000                 This training was not done separately but
                                                                            included under another component
Primary school teachers trained                      78,000                 35,600

Teachers, principals and technical staff from           300                          626
the Atlantic Coast regions trained


Purchase of Primary school textbooks - (1st -
6th grade)                                         1,121,415                           2,773,814 books
                                                                                       1,091,834 books
Reprint of moral/social studies textbooks            601,375



Acquisition of PEBI textbooks (maternal              160,954                    355,806 textbooks and workbooks
language textbooks, mathematics, Spanish,
history, and science) and workbooks


Acquisition of didactic guides                          44,058                         116,050 guides

Acquisition of multigrade student guides              521,546                           778,282 guides


Acquisition of multigrade teacher guides               15,374                      ---not carried out --

Libraries for multigrade schools                        6,000                            3,000

Teachers Libraries                                      1,600                             800

Libraries for Escuelas Normales                            30                              20

Non- durable didactic materials for multigrade         15,500                          22,600




                                                           - 24 -

teachers


Primary school classrooms replaced and           157                 336 classrooms
equipped


Primary school classrooms replaced in             56                 80 classrooms
Atlantic Coast


Primary school classrooms rehabilitated and      145                436 classrooms
equipped


Primary school classrooms rehabilitated and       17                 25 classrooms
equipped in the Atlantic Coast


Number of schools receiving the Fondo             750            2,760 schools receiving funds
Sonrisa


Number of teachers and principals receiving    20,800           16,800 teachers paid
performance-based financial incentives



INST. STRENGTHENING and
MODERNIZATION

School Council members trained in autonomy     35,990            33,775 members trained

School principals trained in management
                                               1,200               1,500 teachers trained


Teachers and parents trained through           20,374          40,000 teachers and parents trained
escuela de padres

Supervisors trained in school autonomy           800                    ---------------------------

Communications program to increase                 3        Communication campaigns on School
awareness and support for school autonomy                   Autonomy, Textbooks maintenance and
program among stakeholders                                  Preschool were carried out.


Student achievement test applied to all 3rd         1       1 . The student achievement test was carried
and 6th grade students                                      out in 2002. The next assessment will be
                                                            carried out in 2005.
                                                   1        Complied with
 MIS operational
                                                            Manual for supervisors (including
Technical assistance/training/equipment for        n.a      performance indicators) elaborated;
school supervision system                                   Manual for PDE (School Development
                                                            Projects) elaborated; Piloting of PDEs in 40
                                                            primary schools.

1End of project




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal         Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                         Estimate            Estimate             Appraisal
                           Component                                   US$ million         US$ million
1. Expansion of Preschool and Primary School Coverage                       1.19                   4.19                352.1
2. Quality Improvement of Preschool and Primary School                    42.21                   44.39                105.2
Education

3. Institutional Strengthening and Modernization of the                   11.92                    8.74                 73.3
Education System

4. Project Administration                                                   3.08                   2.48                 80.5

Total Baseline Cost                                                       58.40                   59.80
                              Total Project Costs                         58.40                   59.80
                     Total Financing Required                             58.40                   59.80
Note: The IDA credit was SDR39.3 million, equivalent to US$52.5 million. Due to the exchange rate movements, the dollar
amount of the IDA credit increased by project closing.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                         Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                   ICB              NCB                        2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
1. Works                                   0.00             0.00                 11.60              0.00              11.60
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (10.80)             (0.00)            (10.80)
2. Goods                                   8.30             0.00                 3.20               0.00              11.50
                                          (7.90)            (0.00)              (3.00)             (0.00)            (10.90)
3. Services                                0.00             0.00                 5.60               0.00               5.60
( Consultants )                           (0.00)            (0.00)              (5.50)             (0.00)             (5.50)
4. Training, including                     0.00             0.00                 8.30               0.00               8.30
Scholarships and Grants
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)              (8.00)             (0.00)             (8.00)
5. Miscellaneous                           2.40             1.00                 11.60              0.00              15.00
(Printing and Distribution                (2.30)            (1.00)              (9.00)             (0.00)            (12.30)
Services, Communications
Campaigns, Incentives
6. Operating Costs                         2.40             0.00                 4.00               0.00               6.40
                                          (2.20)            (0.00)              (2.80)             (0.00)             (5.00)
   Total                                  13.10             1.00                 44.30              0.00              58.40
                                          (12.40)           (1.00)             (39.10)             (0.00)            (52.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                        Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                   ICB              NCB                       2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
1. Works                                   0.00             0.00                10.72              0.00              10.72



                                                         - 26 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.55)            (0.00)           (9.55)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.00             22.43             0.00             22.43
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (21.70)            (0.00)           (21.70)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              5.40             0.00              5.40
    ( Consultants )                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.40)            (0.00)           (5.40)
    4. Training, including                  0.00               0.00              6.07             0.00              6.07
    Scholarships and Grants
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.06)            (0.00)           (6.06)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00             12.11             0.00             12.11
    (Printing and Distribution             (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.08)            (0.00)           (9.08)
    Services, Communications
    Campaigns, Incentives
    6. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              3.07             0.00              3.07
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.18)            (0.00)           (1.18)
        Total                               0.00               0.00             59.80             0.00             59.80
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (52.97)            (0.00)           (52.97)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Expansion of Preschool       1.15         0.01                     3.94         0.25                  342.6    2500.0
and Primary Coverage



2. Quality Improvement of      37.11         5.09                    39.37         5.02                  106.1     98.6
Primary Education
3. Institutional               11.70         0.20                     8.25         0.49                  70.5     245.0
Strengthening and
Modernization of the
Education System


4. Project Administration       2.59         0.46                     1.42         1.06                  54.8     230.4
Total                          52.56         5.79                    52.98         6.82                  100.8    117.8




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/04/1998
              02/08/1999
              05/23/1999

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/24/99


 Supervision

              10/27/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              04/27/2001                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              04/27/2001                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); EDUCATION ECONOMIST
                                             (2); CONSULTANT (1)
              04/29/2003               11    TASK TEAM LEADER (2);            U               S
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - POLICY (1);
                                             JPA (1); CONSULTANT -
                                             CAP.BLDG. (4);
                                             CONSULTANT - ECONOMIST
                                             (1); PROC. SPECIALIST (1)
              11/14/2003                5    TTL (1); JPA (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
              03/30/2004                2    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1)


 ICR
              12/06/2004                2     EDUCATION SPECIALIST            S               S
                                              (1); OPERATIONS
                                              CONSULTANT
                                              (1)
              02/21/2005                2     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);       S               S
                                              OPERATIONS CONSULTANT
                                              (1)




                                              - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         10.00                           200*
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              11.00                           343*
  Supervision                                        87.56                            523
  ICR                                                 9.83                             40
  Total                                             116.56                          1,066
* These figures include TF resources used during preparation.




                                                           - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank Documents

l Project Appraisal Document (PAD). August 1999.
l Aide Memoires (1998-2004)
l Available Back to Office Reports (1998-2004)
l Information Completion Report for the Basic Education Project APRENDE I. August 2001.
l Country Assistance Strategy
l Central America: Education Strategy Paper. Emanuela Di Gropello. November 2004.


Borrower Documents

l "Reporte sobre el Programa de Becas Aprende II". Vanessa Castro. Managua, 14 de mayo 2002.
l El Impacto del Programa de Becas Aprende II.
l "Evaluación del Desempeno de los Educadores Comunitarios como Efecto de las Capacitaciones
   organizadas por APRENDE II". Mercedes Castillo, Esperanza Duarte, Otoniel Arguello.
l "Informe Consolidado de las Evaluaciones de los Programas de Capacitación Ejecutados por el MECD
   y el Proyecto APRENDE". Raul E. Fajardo. Managua.
l Revisión de Medio Término. APRENDE II. Managua. 2002.
l "Informe de Consultoría sobre Impacto en el Aula de Capacitaciones Impulsadas con la Colaboración
   del Proyecto APRENDE II". Vanessa Castro. Enero 2003.
l Evaluación del Rendimiento Académico de los Estudiantes de Tercero y Sexto Grado de Primaria.
   Inofrme de Resultados 2002. Dirección de Evaluación de Políticas, Programas y Proyectos. Managua,
   Nicaragua. Marzo 2004.
l Contribucion del Prestatario al ICR (main text and annex) Diciembre 2004.




                                                 - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

I.-      ANTECEDENTES
Como un apoyo a la reforma educativa emprendida por el Gobierno de Nicaragua a inicios de los años
noventa, el Banco Mundial le otorgó el Crédito 2689-NI para ejecutar el Proyecto de Educación Básica
"APRENDE", con el objetivo de mejorar la calidad de la educación preescolar y básica de Nicaragua. En
el período 1995-2000, el Proyecto se ejecutó de conformidad con sus objetivos y metas.

Con base en la capacidad de ejecución del Crédito y en el desempeño del Ministerio de Educación en el
logro de las metas propuestas, el Banco Mundial reafirmó su voluntad de continuar apoyando al sector
educativo, por lo que en 1999 este organismo financiero aprobó un nuevo crédito (3281-NI) por un monto
de 52 millones de dólares para financiar el Segundo Proyecto de Educación Básica "APRENDE". Debido
a ciertos retrasos en el cumplimiento de las condiciones de efectividad, el Proyecto inició formalmente
actividades en enero de 2001, no obstante algunas acciones se financiaron a fines del año 2000.

II.-    EVALUACIÓN DE LOS OBJETIVOS, DISEÑO E IMPLEMENTACION DEL
        PROYECTO

2.1      Evaluación de los objetivos del Proyecto
El Segundo Proyecto de Educación Básica partió del propósito de mejorar el desarrollo de capital humano
en Nicaragua, promoviendo un sistema de educación básica más equitativo y eficiente, con la participación
de la comunidad en el gobierno de sus escuelas. En ese sentido se plantearon los siguientes objetivos
específicos:

1.       Incrementar la cobertura en preescolar y primaria.
2.       Mejorar la calidad y eficiencia de la educación preescolar y primaria.
3.       Promover el fortalecimiento y modernización del Ministerio de Educación, Cultura y Deportes.

Los objetivos originales del PAD se mantuvieron durante todo el período de ejecución del Proyecto, sin
haber ocurrido revisiones ni cambios.

De conformidad con los indicadores educativos registrados oficialmente por el Ministerio de Educación,
Cultura y Deportes (MECD) y con estudios evaluativos efectuados por la institución, puede afirmarse que
los objetivos del Proyecto se alcanzaron en gran medida.

Respecto al objetivo general, el Proyecto contribuyó a lograr un sistema de educación básica con la
participación de la comunidad en el gobierno de sus escuelas. En este sentido, de conformidad con las
cifras oficiales, la tasa de completación de primaria se incrementó en al menos 7 puntos porcentuales en los
municipios priorizados del Proyecto, en donde se focalizaron acciones de becas y Proyectos Sonrisa
(Condega, Achuapa, El Sauce, Ciudad Darío y San Isidro). En dichos municipios se logró aumentos en la
tasa de completación de primaria que fluctuaron entre 7.68 y 22 puntos porcentuales, respecto al índice
registrado al iniciar los programas mencionados. Por otra parte, de conformidad con los resultados del
estudio de la descentralización realizado en 2004 se concluye que no se da una diferencia significativa entre
los puntajes obtenidos por los estudiantes de centros autónomos y centralizados. Al compararse con los
datos obtenidos en 1997 en cuarto grado se observa un ligero deterioro en el puntaje promedio en ambas
asignaturas, no así en el tercer año de secundaria donde se registró una leve mejoría en los puntajes.
Finalmente, de conformidad con los resultados del estudio de la descentralización realizado en 2004, se
evidencia un significativo progreso en la participación de los consejos en las decisiones del centro.



                                                    - 34 -

Comparando con los resultados del estudio de la descentralización de 1997 se observa un aumento del 11%
en el número de decisiones tomadas por los consejos de los centros autónomos regulares, alcanzando un
77% de decisiones tomadas.        Con relación a los Núcleos Educativos Rurales Autónomos (NERAS)
aumentaron su nivel de decisiones a un 68%.

Respecto al objetivo específico de incrementar la cobertura en preescolar y primaria, las estadísticas
oficiales del MECD acusan un incremento en la Tasa Neta de Escolaridad de Educación Primaria, misma
que pasó de 78.8 en el año 1999 a 83.5 en el año 2003. Por otra parte, la Tasa Neta de Escolaridad de
Preescolar se incrementó de 26.0 en 1999 a 28.6 en 2003.

En lo referente al objetivo de incrementar la calidad y eficiencia en la educación preescolar y primaria, de
conformidad con estudios evaluativos, los educadores voluntarios de preescolar capacitados tienen un
mejor desenvolvimiento en el trabajo que realizan con los niños; destacándose la organización del ambiente
educativo, favoreciendo el desarrollo del lenguaje, la evaluación de los niños y la creación de un clima de
afecto y confianza. Por otra parte, a pesar de que en la primera etapa del Proyecto un estudio evidenció que
en el primer grado existía un mayor aprestamiento en los niños que habían asistido al preescolar, así como
la retención en ese grupo era mayor, en el estudio realizado en 2002 en lo referente a factores asociados al
rendimiento, se observó que la asistencia al preescolar no tuvo un impacto estadísticamente significativo en
el rendimiento. Asimismo, en lo relativo al desempeño de los docentes a través de la capacitación, se
observó mejoría en el proceso enseñanza aprendizaje, aunque en observaciones en el aula el uso de
metodologías activas no era generalizado.

En lo que respecta al objetivo de promover el fortalecimiento y modernización del Ministerio de Educación,
Cultura y Deportes, no se cuenta con indicadores objetivos para medir los logros obtenidos, sin embargo, al
final del Proyecto el MECD tiene un Sistema Nacional de Evaluación en marcha y con un fortalecimiento
adecuado, así como un Sistema de Información Integral Gerencial que permite una toma de decisiones más
acertada. En cuanto a la descentralización a través de la autonomía escolar, en el estudio de 2004 se
evidencia un significativo progreso en este sentido. Si se compara con los resultados del estudio de la
descentralización de 1997, se observa un aumento del 11% en el número de decisiones tomadas por los
consejos de los centros autónomos regulares, logrando un 77% de decisiones tomadas y en los Neras se
logró aumentar el número de decisiones tomadas a un 68 %.


2.2     Evaluación del diseño del Proyecto
El diseño del Proyecto se basó en gran medida en la experiencia generada en la ejecución de su primera
etapa. El diseño responde a las prioridades de la política educativa que desde inicios de los años noventa se
centraron en el mejoramiento de la calidad de la educación básica en Nicaragua.

De esta forma, los objetivos del Proyecto reflejan de manera clara las prioridades de la política educativa
del Gobierno de Nicaragua, reafirmada en la Carta de Políticas suscrita por el Ministro de Educación,
Cultura y Deportes de ese entonces.

En cuanto a la estructura de los componentes y su correlación con los objetivos planteados en el Proyecto,
se incluyó un componente relativo a la expansión de la cobertura, mismo que comprendía acciones que no
tendrían un impacto significativo respecto a la cobertura, como es el caso de construcción de aulas de
preescolar, sin considerar la promoción del modelo comunitario, el cual sí hubiera tenido un sensible
impacto en la cobertura de este nivel. Por otra parte, el componente incluyó el pilotaje de becas a niños de
40 a 60 grado de primaria en municipios focalizados, por lo que los resultados servirían sólo como un
indicador de la factibilidad de este tipo de intervenciones y su impacto se reduciría a dichos municipios.


                                                     - 35 -

Otro aspecto importante que habría que resaltar en cuanto al diseño del Proyecto es que el mismo se basó
en la premisa de que a más tardar al final de su primer año de operación, todas las escuelas del país
estarían bajo el régimen de autonomía. Esta suposición fue la base para diseñar todo el programa de
capacitaciones e incentivos para fortalecer el proceso de autonomía. Sin embargo, motivos de orden
financiero impidieron al MECD la ampliación del modelo en la totalidad de centros del país, lo que provocó
que el Proyecto redujera los alcances de sus acciones de conformidad con los centros que fueron
incorporándose al modelo durante su período de ejecución.

Es importante hacer énfasis que en ciertos casos, en el diseño del Proyecto, el aspecto costo no fue
analizado con la profundidad requerida. En forma particular en lo referente a infraestructura, coincidió el
diseño con la presentación de parte del MECD de un nuevo prototipo de aula que incrementaba los costos
en un 35% respecto al prototipo anterior, lo que se tomó como referencia para el cálculo de la inversión en
este componente, sin contar con un compromiso oficial de la institución.          Posterior a la entrada en
efectividad del crédito, el MECD decidió regresar a la utilización del prototipo anterior de aula, lo que
redujo los costos por aula y por consiguiente obligó al Proyecto a replantear las metas en consideración a la
inversión programada.

Otro aspecto importante relativo al diseño, se refiere al modelo de preescolares comunitarios, dentro del
cual se previó un incremento sustancial de la matrícula; sin embargo, no se realizó ninguna previsión del
crecimiento de la matrícula dentro del modelo formal, debiendo este último haber crecido a un ritmo que le
permitiera mantener un balance adecuado respecto al modelo no formal. De esta manera, en la actualidad
los preescolares comunitarios absorben cerca del 57% de la matrícula total del nivel preescolar, que a pesar
de imprimirle un sello de equidad, recarga la responsabilidad del voluntariado en una proporción demasiada
elevada.


2.3      Evaluación de la implementación del Proyecto
La implementación del Proyecto se realizó en términos satisfactorios. Las metas establecidas para el
mismo se cumplieron casi en su totalidad, de conformidad con los indicadores de monitoreo. A nivel de
componentes del Proyecto puede observarse lo siguiente.

Incremento de la Cobertura en Preescolar y Primaria

En este componente la implementación fue satisfactoria al haberse alcanzado por una parte, las necesidades
de construcción de aulas de Preescolar y por otra contribuyendo al logro de una matrícula de 109,600 niños
que representa el 56.8% de la matrícula total en ese nivel. Es importante resaltar que parte de este
incremento de matrícula se logró en la Costa Atlántica.

Con relación a las becas para niños de 40 a 60 grado de primaria, el pilotaje del programa se realizó
satisfactoriamente, pues en primer lugar se sobre pasó la meta establecida al respecto, alcanzándose un
total de 8,000 niños beneficiados y que se mantuvieron en el sistema educativo, logrando reducir
drásticamente la tasa de deserción en los municipios focalizados. Por otra parte se logró demostrar que el
programa era viable operativamente, manejando bajos costos de ejecución; logrando mantener en la escuela
a los niños, que de otra manera la abandonarían para ayudar a sus padres en actividades económicas.

Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación Preescolar y Primaria.

Dentro de este componente, la capacitación a maestros voluntarios de preescolares comunitarios fue


                                                   - 36 -

ejecutada por encima de las metas programadas, lográndose mejorar la calidad de la enseñanza de parte de
estos docentes, al presentar un adecuado desenvolvimiento en el trabajo que realizan con los niños,
destacándose la organización del ambiente educativo. Este programa de capacitación fue reforzado con
módulos pedagógicos, así como todo el apoyo logístico requerido.

Asimismo, se logró mantener un número adecuado de educadores voluntarios de preescolares comunitarios
para la atención de los niños matriculados en el modelo, superando las metas establecidas en el diseño. Lo
anterior con el apoyo de una ayuda económica financiada por el Proyecto.

Por otra parte, se coadyuvó en la creación de ambientes estimulantes que propician la calidad de la
educación preescolar, así como en la introducción de conceptos lógicos matemáticos y de lenguaje, a través
de la dotación de materiales durables y no durables tanto para docentes como para los niños.

En lo que respecta a la calidad de la educación primaria, uno de los principales retos planteados dentro del
Proyecto fue mejorar el desempeño de los docentes y para este efecto, en primer lugar se capacitó a los
docentes de escuelas multigrado en metodologías propias de esta modalidad, alcanzando mejores niveles de
calidad y creatividad como facilitadores; tanto en la preparación como en el desarrollo de sus clases. De la
misma manera, se capacitó a un total de 2,700 docentes de primer grado, para fortalecer sus habilidades en
Español y Matemática logrando estos docentes una mayor seguridad en su desempeño y enriqueciendo sus
conocimientos, intercambiando experiencias y realizando su trabajo con mayores herramientas
pedagógicas.

Asimismo, se contribuyó a elevar el desempeño de los maestros de la Costa Atlántica del país, al aplicar
conceptos constructivistas y retomando metodologías sencillas para desarrollar contenidos y para alcanzar
la calidad del trabajo, capacitándose a 413 docentes del Programa de Educación Bilingüe Intercultural en el
tema de Español como segunda lengua y a 213 en su lengua materna.

Uno de los mayores aportes del Proyecto al mejoramiento de la calidad ha sido la dotación de libros de
texto, cuadernos de trabajo y guías didácticas de todas las materias del currículum a todos los estudiantes y
docentes de las escuelas públicas y subvencionadas del país. Lo anterior, reforzado con la distribución de
guías para estudiantes de escuelas multigrado de las regiones rurales del país. De esta forma, se contribuyó
a la eficiencia en el proceso enseñanza aprendizaje en las escuelas más pobres del país. Esta acción fue
fortalecida con la distribución de bibliotecas para escuelas multigrado, para docentes y para escuelas
normales, permitiéndoles el acceso a material bibliográfico actualizado para contribuir a la calidad de los
procesos educativos. En el caso de las escuelas multigrado, se distribuyó además paquetes de material no
durable para el docente que coadyuvaron a elevar su nivel de desempeño en el aula.

A través del Sistema de Mejoramiento de Centros Escolares de Primaria (SIMCEP) y utilizando un
esquema altamente descentralizado con la participación de la comunidad, se logró la rehabilitación y
reemplazo de aulas de primaria, en la región del Pacífico y con un especial tratamiento a la región del
Atlántico, sobre pasándose las metas establecidas en el diseño del Proyecto. Con esta acción se mejoró
sensiblemente el ambiente escolar, lo que se traduce en una condición propicia para el proceso de
enseñanza aprendizaje. Por otra parte, se introdujo un pilotaje de construcción y equipamiento de módulos
de apoyo docentes, a fin de facilitar su permanencia en los centros de estudios cuando proceden de regiones
remotas.

El Proyecto realizó el pilotaje del Fondo Sonrisa, mediante el cual se financió la ejecución de proyectos
formulados por estudiantes y docentes de escuelas rurales para la realización de actividades extra
curriculares, logrando un mayor entusiasmo en los alumnos, mejorando la autoestima y contribuyendo a


                                                    - 37 -

elevar la calidad de los aprendizajes.

La retención de los alumnos de las escuelas primarias autónomas, se incrementó y la asistencia y
puntualidad de los docentes de esos centros se mejoró gracias al incentivo económico asignado a través del
Proyecto. A pesar de que no se logró cumplir la meta programada, debido a que no todas las escuelas
públicas se incorporaron al régimen de participación educativa, se cumplieron los objetivos previstos y se
establecieron las bases para introducir un sistema de evaluación del desempeño de los docentes.

Fortalecimiento y Modernización Institucional

En consideración a que al momento del diseño del Proyecto la descentralización educativa era el eje
principal de la política educativa, una de las prioridades contempladas en el diseño fue fortalecer dicho
modelo a través de la preparación de los Consejos Directivos de los Centros Autónomos. Al respecto, se
capacitó en forma generalizada a dichos órganos, cubriéndose el 94% de la meta establecida aún
considerando que no se incorporó la totalidad de los centros a la autonomía. De esta manera, los Consejos
cuentan con las herramientas necesarias para dirigir y administrar sus centros de manera eficiente. Para
fortalecer dicha preparación se logró la capacitación en gerencia educativa a 1,500 directores de centros
autónomos, sobre pasando la meta y contribuyendo al desarrollo de una capacidad gerencial en dichos
directores.

Los esfuerzos para fortalecer la descentralización educativa se ampliaron a través del programa Escuela de
Padres y Madres, a fin de lograr un acercamiento de los padres de familia a los centros escolares y
capacitarlos en temas prioritarios en la educación integral de sus hijos. A pesar de un considerable retraso
en la ejecución de este programa, en el último año del Proyecto se logró arrancar con un pilotaje de 93
centros educativos, sobre pasando las metas de padres de familia involucrados.

El Proyecto también apoyó la realización de campañas de comunicación que permitieron que la ciudadanía
conociera el modelo de autonomía y posteriormente el de participación educativa, logrando un mayor apoyo
en el desarrollo de dicho esquema. Se realizaron dos campañas, no alcanzándose a cumplir la meta
comprometida por la suspensión que se realizó en 2002 debido a la revisión de la estrategia de
comunicación del Ministerio. Asimismo, se realizaron acciones de comunicación para apoyar el modelo de
preescolares comunitarios, así como para el cuido y devolución de libros de texto, con alcances similares a
los de la campaña para la autonomía escolar.

Dentro del fortalecimiento del MECD el Proyecto logró sentar las bases para el desarrollo de un Sistema
Nacional de Evaluación, sobre el cual podría construirse en un corto plazo una amplia gama de análisis y
pruebas. En este sentido, en el año 2002 por primera vez en el país se aplicaron pruebas estandarizadas a
una muestra representativa nacional de estudiantes de 3ro y 6to grado, así como encuestas, con el fin de
encontrar los factores asociados al rendimiento. Los análisis practicados son un importante aporte a la
institución para realizar los cambios necesarios en su política educativa. Debido a retrasos en esta
aplicación así como a factores externos, sólo fue posible realizar una aplicación.

Asimismo, el Proyecto coadyuvó a la modernización y fortalecimiento del MECD a través del desarrollo de
un Sistema Integrado de Información Gerencial, que constituye una herramienta clave para la toma de
decisiones en el sector educativo. Este esfuerzo fue acompañado con la adquisición del equipo informático
y de comunicación para interconectar al MECD a nivel central y local. Queda pendiente en este esfuerzo,
la negociación con el Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público, a fin de lograr la interconectividad del
sistema con el SIGFA.




                                                    - 38 -

Con el propósito de fortalecer la capacidad operativa del MECD a través de la adaptación del sistema de
supervisión educativa a los nuevos esquemas descentralizados, el Proyecto apoyó mediante la asistencia
técnica para la elaboración de un manual de supervisión que ha dado paso a una asesoría pedagógica, un
esquema menos fiscalizador y de mayor ayuda al docente; y por otra parte se financió el pilotaje del Plan de
Desarrollo Educativo, como una herramienta coadyuvante para lograr una mejor calidad de la educación, a
través de una planificación estratégica a mediano plazo a nivel de centros escolares.

III.-    EVALUACIÓN DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO DURANTE LA EVOLUCION
         Y EJECUCIÓN DEL PROYECTO.

El desempeño del Prestatario en términos generales puede considerarse satisfactorio a la luz de la siguientes
consideraciones.

Desde el punto de vista del Gobierno de Nicaragua, la prioridad que el Estado ha asignado a la educación y
en especial el mantenimiento de una política educativa congruente y dentro del marco bajo el cual se diseñó
el Proyecto, refleja la importancia que tiene el sector educativo y por ende los objetivos del Proyecto dentro
del Gobierno. A pesar de haber ocurrido un cambio de administración durante la ejecución del Proyecto,
esta situación no afectó en modo alguno el desarrollo del mismo, al mantenerse sus objetivos y acciones
programadas. Por otra parte, desde el punto de vista financiero, el Gobierno de Nicaragua desembolsó los
fondos de contrapartida convenidos con el Banco Mundial y a pesar de que los ajustes estructurales en
algún momento dificultaron la oportunidad y monto de los desembolsos, al final se contó con la totalidad de
los mismos.

No obstante en los últimos años se ha observado una leve mejoría en los indicadores macroeconómicos, aún
persiste la situación de pobreza en el país, lo que limita en gran medida los impactos que pudieran resultar
de la intervención del Proyecto.

Por otra parte, a partir de 2004 con la implementación de los procedimientos APEX, para el manejo de los
fondos de los proyectos con financiamiento externo y la puesta en práctica del Subsistema de Unidades
Ejecutoras (SIUE), se redujo significativamente la agilidad en el manejo de los recursos del Proyecto. De
esta manera, la operación se retrasó sensiblemente y se perdió el dinamismo mantenido hasta esa fecha.

A nivel del Ministerio de Educación, Cultura y Deportes se observó un compromiso sostenido de la
institución en las etapas de identificación, diseño, preparación y ejecución del Proyecto. Por otra parte, la
experiencia adquirida por el Ministerio en la ejecución de la primera etapa del Proyecto, fue un factor
determinante para desarrollar la capacidad institucional requerida para implementar una segunda etapa con
un mayor grado de complejidad de ejecución. Al respecto, la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto, en forma
conjunta con las Direcciones Generales del Ministerio, lograron capitalizar toda la experiencia técnica,
administrativa y financiera, a fin de cumplir a cabalidad con los retos de la segunda etapa.

El cambio de administración pública en 2002 afectó en cierta medida el desarrollo del Proyecto, al hacerse
necesario una fuerte promoción de parte de la Unidad Coordinadora para que los nuevos mandos
internalizaran los objetivos y acciones del Proyecto y que el mismo no perdiera el dinamismo adquirido en
los años anteriores.

Asimismo, la ausencia de una política y estrategia integral de capacitación para el sector educativo, limitó
en gran medida el impacto de los esfuerzos del Proyecto en este sentido. Muchos acciones se vieron
diluidas ante la falta de acciones coordinadas o sinérgicas.




                                                     - 39 -

Por otra parte, la falta de un sistema eficiente de almacenaje y distribución de parte del Ministerio fue un
obstáculo serio en algunas acciones claves del Proyecto, como es el caso de los materiales didácticos.

Es indudable que la ejecución del Proyecto ha proporcionado al Ministerio una experiencia enriquecedora
que ha propiciado el desarrollo y consolidación de la política educativa, en sus aspectos prioritarios. Es
importante señalar en primera instancia, que el Ministerio ha demostrado que tiene capacidad institucional
para ejecutar proyectos educativos con financiamiento externo, ajustándose satisfactoriamente a los
requisitos que rigen en este tipo de operaciones, así como en la estructura organizativa necesaria para su
implementación; situación que le ha permitido acceder a los nuevos esquemas de financiamiento de parte,
tanto del Banco Mundial como de otros organismos multilaterales y bilaterales, que demandan una
capacidad institucional fortalecida.

Una de las lecciones aprendidas más importantes dentro de la ejecución del Proyecto se refiere al modelo de
preescolares comunitarios, al demostrar que es una alternativa viable para hacer posible el acceso de los
niños más pobres al nivel preescolar, por ser una intervención costo eficiente y que involucra directamente
a las propias comunidades. No obstante lo anterior, de esta experiencia se desprende la necesidad de
evaluar periódicamente este modelo, de tal manera que su dinamismo pueda encontrar una adecuada
respuesta de parte de la política educativa; es decir, es imposible manejar el modelo desde una perspectiva
estática. Asimismo, la voluntariedad es un tema que debe ser tratado de forma muy cuidadosa, debido a
que con el tiempo puede desvirtuarse.

De la misma manera, el Sistema de Mejoramiento de Centros Escolares de Primaria (SIMCEP) constituyó
una importante experiencia en el campo de la optimización de las condiciones de infraestructura escolar de
primaria, en donde la comunidad juega un papel protagónico. En este sentido se combinó un esquema ágil
de atención con la estrategia derivada del modelo de autonomía escolar, en donde los consejos directivos de
centros autónomos, con el debido apoyo técnico, demostraron éxito en la identificación, formulación,
licitación y ejecución de obras de infraestructura, con calidad y costos equiparables a las intervenciones
regulares del Gobierno.

La experiencia de los libros de texto ha proporcionado lecciones importantes al MECD, pues constituyó el
primer esfuerzo realizado en el país, en donde todos los niños de las escuelas públicas y subvencionadas
recibieron anualmente los complejos didácticos señalados por el currículo.           Los registros de esta
intervención podrán proporcionar elementos valiosos para que el MECD pueda evaluar el costo beneficio
del tipo de intervención y definir una política de dotación de libros de texto. De esta experiencia, también
se derivó la necesidad de que el MECD cuente con un sistema eficiente de almacenamiento y distribución
de materiales, debido a que esta situación provocó serias limitaciones en el logro de los objetivos de la
intervención.

El desarrollo del Sistema Nacional de Evaluación constituye un verdadero ejemplo de fortalecimiento
institucional, pues a través de un apoyo intensivo de parte del Proyecto en la preparación y capacitación del
personal técnico de soporte, el Ministerio logró sentar las bases para realizar las actividades primordiales
propuestas para dicho sistema. Por otra parte, una lección aprendida muy importante en la implantación
del Sistema Nacional de Evaluación, es la necesidad de contar con una estrategia efectiva para que la
institución internalice la retroalimentación que éste proporciona y lo asuman como una herramienta para
apoyar la toma de decisiones; y no como un enjuiciamiento de parte del área de evaluación.

Por su parte los programas que en carácter piloto ejecutó el Proyecto, han proporcionado elementos
valiosos a tener en cuenta en futuras intervenciones del Ministerio. Con relación a las Becas Aprende, se
demostró que puede ejecutarse un programa compensatorio aprovechando la estructura actual del


                                                    - 40 -

Ministerio, reduciendo significativamente el costo operativo del mismo. De esta intervención se deriva la
necesidad de considerar seriamente este tipo de programa para coadyuvar en la reducción de la deserción
escolar en zonas de extrema pobreza, que generalmente ocurre por razones económicas. En lo referente al
Fondo Sonrisa, se captó la experiencia en la motivación de niños de escuelas rurales para que a través de
actividades extracurriculares, seleccionadas por ellos mismos, mejoraran sensiblemente su interés en sus
estudios y lo principal, en su autoestima.

El Sistema Integrado de Información Gerencial constituye un caso especial que refleja lecciones muy
ilustrativas de la necesidad de que, las decisiones sobre la implementación de un esfuerzo de esta magnitud
deben realizarse con la profundidad y rigor que el caso amerita. En este sentido, el tiempo que tomó
cristalizar este sistema trascendió a la siguiente administración, la cual se vio obligada a aceptar un
concepto previamente definido y por lo tanto el sistema no se implementó con el entusiasmo original.

Es importante resaltar el desempeño de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto en todo el proceso de
evolución y ejecución del mismo. El equipo alcanzó un desarrollo técnico en torno a la ejecución de este
tipo de proyectos, logrando superar todos los retos impuestos en el proceso. Asimismo, dentro de los
cambios ocurridos en las estructuras del Ministerio, que incluyen un cambio de Administración, el equipo
aseguró la continuidad de las acciones y mantuvo los compromisos derivados del Proyecto. En los aspectos
de administración financiera, destaca la implementación del Sistema LACI promovido por el Banco y que
desde el inicio de la ejecución del Proyecto se adoptó con éxito, sirviendo de ejemplo para otros proyectos
de la región. Al momento del cierre se logró ejecutar más del 99% del total asignado. De la misma manera,
el área de adquisiciones se desarrolló con eficiencia y transparencia, alcanzando ejecutar 21 procesos
licitatorios, además de la totalidad de procesos y gestiones para asegurar la plena ejecución de las
actividades programadas.



IV.-     EVALUACIÓN DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO DURANTE LA EVOLUCION E
         IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
En forma general puede afirmarse que el desempeño del Banco durante la evolución e implementación del
Proyecto fue satisfactoria, de conformidad con las consideraciones siguientes.

En el período de identificación, diseño, preparación y evaluación del Proyecto se observó un apoyo muy
cercano de parte del equipo del Banco, trabajando en forma muy coordinada con los equipos del MECD y
la UCP. Se realizó un esfuerzo significativo por darle una continuidad a los alcances de la primera etapa,
de conformidad con las políticas educativas vigentes, dando como resultado un diseño bastante
satisfactorio.

Con relación a la supervisión del Proyecto, durante los tres primeros años de ejecución el Banco mantuvo
una estrecha comunicación con la Unidad Coordinadora, proporcionando oportunamente la asistencia
requerida. Sin embargo, en los dos últimos años de ejecución, la relación con la Unidad Coordinadora se
deterioró ante la entrada de un nuevo Task Manager. Lo anterior, debido a que en primer lugar, su
prioridad básica fue la preparación de un nuevo esquema de financiamiento para el sector educativo,
relegando a un segundo plano la supervisión y asistencia al Proyecto, lo cual afectó el desarrollo del mismo
en su etapa más crítica. Muchos procesos pudieron haber alcanzado una mejor calidad de ejecución, si se
hubiera contado con un Task Manager con suficiente experiencia en el campo operativo, proactivo y con un
mayor compromiso con el éxito del Proyecto. No obstante para la etapa del cierre la Unidad Coordinadora
gestionó ante el Banco una solución al problema, obteniéndose el respaldo de un Task Manager de la
Región que impulsó las acciones para un cierre exitoso.




                                                     - 41 -

En materia de supervisión de adquisiciones y de administración financiera, los especialistas del Banco de
estas áreas, mantuvieron una estrecha y fructífera relación con la UCP, durante todo el desarrollo del
Proyecto, lo que permitió el éxito en el desempeño de estas importantes actividades. Fue gracias a este
apoyo que el Proyecto logró ser pionero en la implementación del sistema LACI y guardar por otra parte,
un record impecable en adquisiciones.




                                                 - 42 -

Additional Annex 9. Results of Students Learning Achievements


Results from Learning Achievement Test - Third Grade
 Learning                            Language                         Mathematics
 Achievement                Number          Percentage            Number          Percentage
 Levels
 Basic                        4,914             71.2               4,590              61.7
 Intermediate                 1,454             21.1               1,819              24.4
 Proficient                    532               7.7               1,033              13.9


Results from Learning Achievement Tests ­ Sixth Grade
 Learning                            Language                         Mathematics
 Achievement                Number          Percentage            Number          Percentage
 Levels
 Basic                        5,794             69.7               7,477              88.1
 Intermediate                 2,094             25.2                916               10.8
 Proficient                    497               5.1                90                1.1

Achieving Basic level meant that students have poor mastering of curriculum competencies; intermediate
meant better acquisition of curriculum competencies and proficient meant that the student mastered all the
competencies and content of the curriculum.




                                                 - 43 -

- 44 -

