Report No. PID7405
Project Name                      Nicaragua-Second Basic Education Project (@)
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Education
Borrower                          Republic of Nicaragua
Project ID                        NIPE50613
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education,
Culture and Sports (MECD)
Date this PID Prepared            August 2, 1999
Appraisal Date                    May 1999
Board Date                        August 31, 1999
Background
1.     Education indicators reflect Nicaragua's poverty.     Nationally, 23
percent of the population age ten and older is illiterate. Among the
extremely poor in rural areas, the figure is 51 percent. The average number
of years of schooling is 4.5 nationally, but only three years for extremely
poor urban dwellers, and 1.6 in rural areas. Net enrollment rate at the
primary level is approximately 80 and at the secondary level is 27 percent.
The quality of primary school teaching is generally low, and few teaching
materials are available. Grade repetition and dropout rates are high,
particularly in the early grades.
2.     To increase the education level of the poor and the quality of education
services, since 1993 MECD has been engaged in a program of school autonomy
which aims for increased (i) allocative efficiency and (ii) local
accountability. So far, 1,612 primary and 169 secondary schools have become
autonomous. This corresponds to: (i) 52 percent of all public primary
students and 83 percent of all public secondary students; (ii) 35 percent of
the public primary schools and 61 percent of the secondary ones; and (iii) 37
percent of the primary level teachers and 81 percent of the secondary ones.
The Government's goal is to have school autonomy cover 100 percent of all
enrolled students by the year 2000.
Selected Education Sector Issues
3.     The main sector issues are inadequate coverage; poor quality of teaching
and learning, including inadequate infrastructure and low quality of teachers;
and management inefficiencies.
(a) Inadequate coverage in pre- and primary school. Preschool
coverage is low: less than one quarter of preschool-age children
attend any kind of preschool. At the primary level, about one-
third of all 7 to 12 year old population is out of school and in
some of the poorest departments, that percentage is as high as 40
percent. After the 3rd grade, coverage in rural areas becomes
even more problematic due to high drop-out rates and lack of
schools for grades 4 and higher.
(b) Inadequate infrastructure. Despite substantial gains in the
rehabilitation and expansion of school infrastructure about 35
percent of public schools are still in need of rehabilitation.
(c) High repetition and dropout rates. Repetition remains high in the



1st and 2nd grades (12 percent and 9 percent respectively) despite
MECD's policy of automatic promotion in those grades.
Additionally, repetition in rural areas is higher than in urban
areas and there are more males than females repeating. Dropout
rates are also high, particularly in 1st grade (24 percent) and 4th
grade (16 percent). In rural areas, the problem is even more
serious, with about one-third of the students dropping out in 1st
and 4th grades, and one-fifth of them dropping out in the other
primary grades.
(d) Low levels of teaching quality. Poor teaching quality is the most
visible problem of education quality in Nicaragua. It stems from:
(i) poor quality of pre-service teacher training; (ii) inadequate
in-service training; (iii) high incidence of non-accredited
teachers in the system (according to MECD, about 30 percent of
them); and (iv) low rates of retention of good teachers due to
very low salaries and, in some cases, lack of housing options.
(e) Inadequate Supervision System. The actual school supervision
system neither supports the autonomy process nor contributes to
the quality of education. The supervisor has too many demands on
its time, and no clear definition of its role. In a revised
system it is important to integrate academic evaluation, teacher
training and pedagogical supervision.
(f) Management Inefficiencies. Despite significant progress in the
recent years, the managerial performance of MECD's Program
Directors remains low because of lack of training, deficient
managerial information in the system, inadequate statistics, and
unclear roles and responsibilities. Most primary school directors
also lack managerial and human resource management training.
Aside from the lack of technical personnel, the Ministry has yet
to develop the capacity for policy, strategic and operational
planning. Finally, there are no feedback mechanisms of policy
impact on decision making at the central and local levels and, at
the same time, there is little prospect for communicating system
performance to decision-makers and parents in ways that promote
accountability and participation.
Project Rationale
4.     The thrust of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Nicaragua (CAS)
is to reduce poverty and income inequality, by helping Nicaragua to complete
the transition from a centrally planned to a sustainable market economy. To
this end, Bank's support focuses on: (i) consolidating growth through private
sector development; (ii) developing the rural sector; and (iii) developing
human capital and protecting the poor. The proposed project would directly
support the last of these objectives. The project would: (i) expand access to
preschool and primary education, especially in rural areas and areas
predominantly indigenous; (ii) improve the quality of teaching and learning
through financing educational inputs (textbooks and classroom materials) and
teacher training; and (iii) strengthen the planning and managerial capacity of
MECD to support the decentralization process.
Project Objectives and Description
5.     The project's ultimate objective is to improve the development of human
capital in Nicaragua, including that of indigenous groups in the Atlantic
-2 -



Coast. The project would expand and consolidate the actions undertaken under
the first Basic Education Project (CR 2689-NI).
6.     Coverage.  The project would support improvement in pre- and primary
school coverage by:
- promoting the expansion of preschool in areas where they are still
lacking preschools.
- piloting targeted scholarships at poor students in grades 4rd-6th who
would normally drop out of school for economic reasons.
7. Quality. The project would improve educational quality by:
- financing in-service teacher training for preschool teachers;
- financing community preschool teachers incentives;
- furnishing community preschools with learning materials;
- providing in-service teacher training for school directors and
teachers;
- supplying primary schools with textbooks, classroom and school
library, and educational materials for primary schools;
- rehabilitating and replacing primary school infrastructure, including
the support of a maintenance program and the provision of teacher
housing in targeted areas;
- sponsoring a school fund for extra-curricular activities (Fondo
Sonrisa);
- financing a performance-based salary incentives to teachers and
principals;
8. Institutional Strengthening and Modernization. The project would support
institutional strengthening and modernization by:
- training school councils directors on basic management;
- supporting awareness campaigns on the decentralization process;
- supporting the design and implementation of a National Evaluation
System;
- improving and consolidating MECD's existing statistical system so
that it could be both used as a basis for decision-making at the
central level and to inform schools and society on the performance of
the system.
- supporting the design and implementation of a supervision system;
Project Cost and Financing
9. The total project costs is US$58.4 million of which IDA would finance 52.5
equivalent.
Benefits
10. The project would contribute to improving the quality and efficiency of the
education system, and, by targeting the poorest areas and segments of the
population, including indigenous groups, it would increase equity in human
capital investment and help reduce poverty. The project would have positive
externalities on the community life by enhancing the participation of parents
and the community in the education of their children.
Project Implementation
11. Overall responsibility for oversight of the project would be vested in
MECD. The project's operations would be coordinated by a Project Coordination
-3 -



Unit (PCU). The different Directorates of the MECD would help oversee the
technical performance of those components affecting their respective
directorate.
Sustainability
12. The project finances investment in human capital, a proven high-return
investment with virtually no problems of sustainability.
Lessons learned from the Past Operations in the Country/Sector
13. There is considerable accumulated experience (i) in the country from the
implementation of the first basic education Project and (ii) in the LAC region
from the implementation of the type of activities--school autonomy, in-service
teacher training, setting up national evaluation systems, etc--which would be
the basis for the proposed project.
(a) Community preschools. Empirical evidence indicates that community
preschools are cost effective. This project would reinforce the
network of community preschools.
(b) Innovations in education finance. Poverty is a major issue in
student retention. To increase human capital, it is necessary to
compensate poor families for the direct and the opportunity costs
of sending their children to school. The project would finance
targeted scholarships.
(c) Teacher training on use of textbooks. Many teachers have trouble
using textbooks and materials provided by the first phase of this
project. New textbooks to be provided by the project would be
accompanied by a teacher guide and teacher training.
(d) Need for communication and social marketing. Another problem is
the lack of information among parents and the general public about
school autonomy and education policy reforms. The project would
finance communication/social marketing campaigns.
Environmental Aspects
14. The proposed project is rated "B" and does not involve any re-settlement
nor it is expected to have any negative impact on the environment. On the
contrary, given the existing natural science curriculum with strong emphasis
on environmental preservation the project is expected to have a positive
impact on the environment.
15. The infrastructure sub-component would focus on rehabilitating/replacing
existing infrastructure that is not adequate to serve as a school or pre-
school. The construction/rehabilitation of schools would be done in
accordance with the guidelines recommended by LCSES for minor civil works and
in consultation with beneficiaries, particularly indigenous groups.
Additionally, environmental preservation would be reinforced as part of the
science curriculum in all public primary schools and all of the pre- and
primary level textbooks and materials that would be distributed to schools
under the proposed project.
Program of Targeted Interventions
16. The project meets both criteria for inclusion in the Program of Targeted
Interventions. First, the project would develop a specific mechanism for
targeting the poor children in grades 4-6 who drop out of school for economic
reasons. Second, the population of project beneficiaries--schools in rural
areas, areas predominantly indigenous, and children attending community pre-
- 4 -



schools--has a significantly larger proportion of poor people than the
country's population as a whole.
Contact Points:
Task Manager
Robin Horn
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-4145;
Fax: (202) 522-1201
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 30, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



