Page  1
October 13, 1998
His Excellency
Mr. Esteban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua
Re:  
Nicaragua:
Japanese Grant for the Second Basic Education
Development Project
 - 
Grant Number TF025619                   
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding six hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($650,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Nicaragua 
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of this 
Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the 
countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:  ______________________
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By:
Esteban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance
Date:
October 22, 1998
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Second Basic Education 
Development Project, which has as main objectives to improve access and quality of basic education in 
the Recipient’s territory (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Expansion of the primary and secondary school decentralization model
.
(i)
Review of progress with, and further need for, consensus-building among 
stakeholders (mayors, unions, teachers and administrators, parents, etc.) in the 
decentralization process to ensure a broad and sustained support for the 
locally-managed school model;
(ii)
assessment of the impact to date of the decentralization in terms of school quality 
and efficiency, participation by parents and the community, and of the application of 
the financing formula; and
(iii)
evaluation of the feasibility of alternative demand-side financing interventions for 
targeting marginalized groups, focusing on what has had an impact on the poor, and 
the conditions of success.
(b)
Expansion of non-formal pre-primary education
.
Evaluation of the impact to date of 
non-formal pre-primary education on the development of five-year-olds’ learning skills.
(c)
Quality and coverage improvements in basic education
.
Carrying out of studies:
(i)
to assess the performance of the textbook distribution system, utilization and 
effectiveness of textbooks and other educational materials, and the effect on 
education quality of locally controlled investment of funds from textbook utilization 
fees;
(ii)
to evaluate the financing needs, in particular the salary and incentive structure, the 
teacher training programs and teachers’ training needs, and design an in-service 
training program to introduce improved teaching/learning methods in selected 
primary schools; and
(iii)
to assess the functionality of the available data base of school facilities;  design a 
system for updating technical information on the physical condition of school 
buildings, including community managed maintenance activities, classroom capacity 
and level of occupancy; and provide a mechanism for analyzing the data and 
establishing priorities for classroom rehabilitation or expansion.
(d)
Institutional support to policy development, planning, and research
.
Carrying out of 
studies
:
(i)
to assess the alternative financing models for the education sector; collect data on the 
level of parents’ voluntary contributions to the schools, financing from other local 
sources, and payment of user fees for textbooks;
Page  3
(ii)
to analyze the institutional requirements of the Recipient’s Ministry of Education 
(MOE) and its regional and local offices to operate effectively in the framework of a 
decentralized educational system;
(iii)
to identify the changes needed in MOE’s organization, staffing and functions in 
order to strengthen its policy, planning and technical support role while delegating 
all administrative and operational responsibilities to autonomous school councils; 
and
(iv)
to assist the MOE in completing a plan for the operationalization of the new 
proposed education law.
(e)
Study tours
.
A
study tour for selected officers of MOE to learn about alternative systems 
for financing basic education.
(f)
Workshops
.
Carrying out of  workshops to build consensus among stakeholders, and 
elicit participation from the main beneficiaries in the design of the Project.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, workshops, surveys and study tours 
required for the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate with 
IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1999.  After that date, IDA 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be done according to 
IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Republic of Nicaragua on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals 
or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether or not 
the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Republic of Nicaragua, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.  IDA may also terminate the right of 
the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s 
assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship 
with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by 
Page  4
IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
