ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                AWorld Frec of Povorty
'InfoShop
Thc 'Aodid IiWnk
Report No AC71
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated. 05/13/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: INDONESIA                               Project ID: P079156
Project: Third Kecamatan Development Project    Task Team Leader: Scott E. Guggenh1eim
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 22, 2003      IBRD Amount ($m): 161.40
Bank Approval: June 26, 2003                    IDA Amount ($m): 86.00
Managing Unit: EASES                             Sector: Sub-national government administration
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  (25%); Roads and highways (20%); Irrigation and
Status: Lending                                 drainage (20%); Water supply (20%); Primary
education (15%)
Theme: Decentralization (P); Rural policies and
institutions (P); Civic engagement; participation and
community driven development (P); Social risk
coping (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
KDP-3 has overall development objectives of reducing poverty and improving local-level
governance in rural Indonesia. It is part of a long-term village level governance program that
began with the first Kecamatan Project in 1998.
Specific development objectives for KDP-3 include: (i) institutionalizing participatory processes
in local government; (ii) the cost effective provision of basic social and economic infrastructure;
(iii) strengthening the capacity of the micro-finance institutions developed under KDP-1 and
KDP-2 to manage and monitor funds sustainably.
I.A.3. Project Description:
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population



2
ISDS
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
5. The Indonesian Pilot for Enhanced Disclosure of Information being pursued in the
context
of the Bank's revised Information Disclosure Policy
Component 1: Block grants to KDP-2 communities -- ($253.0 million) - The purpose of this
component is to provide two years continued support for the block grant program in approximately 2,000
subdistricts that have already been through 3 years of KDP. A limited number of additional eligibility
criteria apply to new subdistricts:
i. subdistricts in new high poverty districts which were previously ineligible for KDP;
ii. post-conflict areas where KDP provides the platform for other post conflict services; and
iii. kecamatans proposed by districts for full funding from their own budgets but where TA is
requested;
KDP block grant amounts will remain the same: 500, 750, or 1,000 million rupiah per subdistrict
(approx. US$55,000, $75,000, or $110,000) based on their population. This component also includes
implementation costs for facilitators and government operational funds.
Kecamatan planning grants supports the village and kecamatan planning process by allowing villagers to
develop a cadre of self-selected social and technical facilitators. Other activities funded through this
component include village cross-audits, dissemination materials, and the costs of local travel.
Component 2: Developing community and local government (est. $41.8 million) -- This component
consists of activities to strengthen the local government councils formed under Laws 22 and 25, with a
particular focus on the village representative forum (BPD), inter-village forums (FAD), and the district
parliaments. Activities include: technical assistance for BPD capacity development; training in
administration and monitoring skills to reinforce village administration, and village-level civic
information and education programs about decentralization.
Component 3: Support to Village Micro-Finance Institutions ($8.7 million) -- Sustaining UPK
revolving fund operations is about the development of local financial institutions. The major problems
experienced by eligible UPKs are inadequate organization, governance and management capacity rather
than the lack of loanable funds. This requires giving focus to the organizational and financial
development of each institution, thus making microfinance and institutional development expertise
locally available.
Under the proposed KDP-3, no new groups would be created and the project will not provide additional
investment funds. The direct target group of the project are UPKs that have graduated from KDP-1 or
will graduate from KDP-2. If economically feasible and institutionally eligible, the project would give
communities the opportunity to develop their UPKs into sustainable service providers. With the
termination of KDP-1 in 2002 regular project support was withdrawn from 45% of its 986 participating
kecamatans. The remaining kecamatans will continue to participate in KDP-2 until they have gone
through the maximum three years of support provided by KDP. The purpose of this component within the
proposed KDP-3 is to ensure a more orderly project withdrawal by giving each eligible KDP kecamatan
the opportunity to move from program to local funding in kecamatans that have graduated from KDP-1 or
will graduate from KDP-2.



3
ISDS
Project support will be limited to training, technical assistance and supervision. It will focus on the
effective and efficient use of the currently existing funds to let loan funds grow. In most cases, the
project does not envisage using savings as a source of loan funds for long-term sustainability although
over the longer term this is a desirable objective. Low-income households at the village level often need
appropriate savings products rather than business credit. However, the current weakness of UPKs
exposes savings deposits to high risk. Savings as a source of loan funds will be introduced later and
gradually, if UPK organization, governance and management as well as the legal framework support this
step. As savings mobilization will not be an immediate development step, appraisal will assess whether
the project should open a very restricted window of financial assistance for UPKs. Guidance on this
issue will be sought from the RD/FSO team preparing the Sustaining Microfinance Project and managing
the microfinance policy dialogue with GOI.
Component 4: Implementation Support ($17.9 million) - This component consists of technical
assistance to the national, provincial, and district governments. Most of the component finances social
and technical facilitators. Facilitators are recruited from the private sector. They receive a
project-managed training program as well as periodic refresher courses. Each "level" of facilitator
supports a corresponding level of government. While at first glance the structure may appear to replicate
positions that notionally exist within the civil service structure, in actual fact these are positions that the
government recognizes are not appropriate for civil servants to perform. Using consultants rather thani
civil servants for technical activities, including facilitation, is therefore part of the general governance
strategy to privatize functions best filled through the market. By contrast, freeing civil servants from such
functions allows them to concentrate on the policy and regulatory activities that their positions and job
descriptions specify. Additional activities funded through this component include training courses in
legislative drafting, and support to PMD for carrying out overall project evaluations through the
provision of technical assistance.
Component 5: Studies, Evaluation, and Special Programs ($3.1 million) -- Major activities to be
funded through this component are a program of poverty impact assessments using quantitative and
qualitative methods, continued support to the justice for the poor program started under KDP-2, pilot
programs for community based monitoring, and studies on village and subdistrict revenue generation,
trade, and infrastructure. TOR for the first-year's M&E program will be reviewed during appraisal.
Component 6: Operational Costs ($0.8 million) -- This component will fund the costs of
incremental travel and comsumables for the National KDP Secretariat. All expenses will be SOE
based on a three month travel plan.
A. Project Organization and Approach to Technical Assistance and Supervision
Component 1: Block grants -- KDP2 developed a comprehensive system for managing and supervising
a national level project that will be continued under the KDP-3 block grants. Consultants support each
level of government. A small national level oversight consultant supervises 15 five person regional
management units. Each regional group includes at least one supervising engineer, a social coordinator, a
trainer, a bookeeping group, and a database management specialist. Below them is a district team that
consists of a district technical specialist, who supports the subdistrict and village technical teams; and a
district level social specialist who supports the subdistrict and village facilitator teams. At the
bottom-most level of the system, each village elects a male and a female village facilitator whose job is to
disseminate project information, support training programs, and supervise the village level planning
process.



4
ISDS
KDP subprojects also build in technical oversight. Communities receive a small budget for contracting
engineers from a pre-qualified list to help design project proposals, and project proposals can include up
to 10% to cover the costs of supervising engineers. All large projects must be individually reviewed and
approved by the KDP district engineer.
Component 2: Institutionalizing community empowerment -- Most of the training and workshop
activities covered under this component would be implemented through the regional management units
described for the block grant component, above. The majority will be carried out by regional NGOs and
recognized training institutes. However, more specialized technical assistance will be needed to support
the national legislative drafting and review process, and also for support to the DPRD technical staff
groups that deal with village governance.
Output 1: Binding outlines for 13 regulations on village government
Review of existing perdas
Multi-stakeholder drafting
Consultative process with KDP districts
DPRD approval
Output 2: Strengthening Representative Institutions
Core administration and monitoring training program for BPDs and FADs
Regional workshops and networks formed
Civic information and education programs
Drafting courses for DPRD and district staff
Output 3:Tnter-village forums
Model implementing instruction produced by MoHA
Selection procedure and core rules promulgated
Internal rules for dispute resolution developed
Kecamatan public budgeting
Output 4: Community revenue enhancement
Adaptation of Kepress 18 to community contracting conditions
Guidelines on local revenue generation
Output 5. Institutionalizing participation
Village cross audits
Inter Kecamatan workshops
Kabupaten workshops
Component 3: Microfinance -- The new strategy for developing UPKs has important consequences for
project organization and implementation, distinguishing it from that of KDP-1 and KDP-2.
A. This section elaborates in some detail the principles that will be followed during project preparation.
*  The microfinance component will be separated from other project activities, and has its own
logical framework, budget and management.
*  The national microfinance team should be small, but it must be staffed with high quality
experts having operational autonomy.
*  Local consultants must be specialized in microfinance and must be responsible for single



5
ISDS
UPKs with a workload enabling monthly visits to each UPK.
*  The selection of local consultants (firms) and all activities in the fields of training, technical
assistance and supervision should support the objective to sustain these services with UPKs
gradually taking over the costs of services.
*  Technical assistance must focus on developing UPK associations that can gradually assume
functions of training, technical assistance and supervision.
*  Training and follow-up technical assistance must be closely linked to ensure transformation
of knowledge into practice.
*  Monthly off-site and on-site supervision must be available, first by project consultants then
by external parties and UPK associations.
*  Performance monitoring will be based on supervision results. Supervision will be carried out
on the basis of a standardized accounting and financial reporting system, which will be made
obligatory for participating UPKs.
Component 4 -- Implementation Support -- KDP-2 introduced a new system for paying and managing
the facilitators. Rather than recruiting them through 30 odd companies that were deployed around the
country, the project replaced the management companies with a single payroll agent who would
release monthyl salaries to the individual consultants. KDP3 takes this system significantly further.
All facilitators will switch onto the direct payment system. Operational costs can also be provided as
block amounts through monthly payments. (See Annex 6 for additional explanation). Management of
the faciltiators has also changed somewhat. Village facilitators are recruited and managed through
the BPD (village legislature). Kecamatan and district faciltiators support district coordination teams.
Both the facilitators and the monitors join monthly review meetings with the district government.
The national consultant team that supports PMD also includes 14 regional management groups, thus
replicating the current structure in which provincial governments represent the center.
Component 5 -- Studies and Evaluations -- KDP has always included a strong analytical program. This
component will continue to support MoHAs quantitative and qualitative monitoring through a series
of consultancies commissioned by PMD and managed by the technical consultants. The compoinent
also includes funds to support specialized evaluation firms. They will be commissioned and managed
by the Bappenas poverty secretariat, which is charged with strategic evaluation and planning.
B. UPK Ownership and Governance
The successful development of UPKs requires an ownership and governance model that supports
sound microfinance operations. Community ownership must be given substance and organization to
become effective. Important principles are:
*  Community ownership must be substantiated in annual community assemblies that decide on
general policies and elect a) a board of owner representatives taking policy decisions in
between the assemblies, and b) a supervisory board for the inspection of UPK operations
Both boards are responsible to the annual assembly.
*  The community assembly issues by-laws regulating ownership, objectives, organization and
operation of the community-owned microfinance institution.
*  KDP grants allocated to loan activities must be defined as institutional (paid-up) capital of
the community-owned microfinance institution. The use of this capital is limited to providing
microcredit services.
*  The UPK is defined as a specialized microfinance institution that has the objective to
increase outreach to low-income households at the village level. If UPKs are involved in
activities other than revolving fund management, they must be organizationally separated.



6
ISDS
*  The board of owner representatives selects UPK management based on clearly defined
criteria related to professional capability.
* The UPK management is responsible to the board of owner representatives, but it must be
operationally autonomous. It must have the authority and the responsibility to manage the
entire credit process. The UPK director is liable for loss.
C. UPK Management
Besides ownershiip and governance, financial and credit management capacity will be the most
crucial factor predicating the successful development of UPKs as microfinance institutions. Important
principles are:
* UPK management is responsible for protecting capital by prudential and cost-covering
operations, and for increasing loanable funds by generation of profits.
*  The UPK must have a standard accounting and financial reporting system. Monthly financial
reports have to be submitted to the supervisory board and the external supervisor
(association, consultant, other independent party to be determined). A consolidated annual
report must be submitted to the community assembly.
*  Credit management must be based on direct lender-borrower relationships.
* Credit decisions will be taken based on borrower eligibility and credit feasibility.
Community members with sustained access to institutional credit or without profitable
business opportunities and adequate repayment capacity are not eligible.
*  Credit groups must meet eligibility criteria, must be able to prepare loan proposals, and must
pledge measurable efforts ofjoint responsibility (i.e., collateral savings) to get access to
credit.
* Borrowers have gradual access to credit based on track records. With low ceilings for first
time borrowers, well performing borrowers should have access to larger amounts and
sustained access to credit.
*   Interest rates must reflect local market rates, and must cover costs, including loan loss costs
and imputed capital (inflation) costs to sustain the net value of capital.
D. Classification and Selection of Participating UPKs
In June 2002, KDP carried out a survey to identify UPKs that may be eligible for further project
assistance. The UPKs participating in the survey were classified based on two indicators that tentatively
show their viability potential: a) the amount of net loan funds (capital minus bad debts) still available
(scale of economy) and b) the net loan fund to initial loan capital ratio (past performance). Results from
the survey make possible a simple classification that will guide overall KDP-3 microfinance support
"Class A" comprises the best performing UPKs with net loan funds larger than Rp. 125 million. This
class will have priority access to technical assistance aiming at developing viable microfinance
institutions. Pending final assessment of willingness and prospects, they will have access to the full range
of support services provided by the project.
"Class B" consists of UPKs that will have access to project support depending on certain conditions.
"Class B I" comprises UPKs with net loan funds larger than Rp. 125 million and a less convincing
performance. During the first year of project implementation they must have proved their willingness and
capability to improve performance to a level that later allows to upgrade them to "Class A". During the
second year of project implementation they must have upgraded to "Class A". "Class B2" consists of



7
ISDS
well performing UPKs with net loan funds between Rp. 50 and Rp. 125 million. To reward their
performance, and depending on willingness and prospects, they will have access to a matching grant, the
maximum of which is the difference between current loan funds and Rp. 125 million (to be reviewed at
appraisal). "Class B3" consists of UPKs in the same net loan fund category but with a less convincing
performance. They would be given the same opportunity only, if they considerably improve performance
during the first project implementation year.
"Class C" comprises UPKs that either have net loan funds smaller than Rp. 50 million or have already
lost more than half of their initial loan funds. Among them are well performing ones that, however, have
net loan funds not larger than Rp. 25 million. The remaining worst performers include UPKs with
relatively large net loan funds. Theoretically, they would be able to break even and sustain operations.
However, this seems to be unrealistic because the loss of more than half of their loan funds points to
serious problems that cannot be solved within the limits of the proposed project
"Class D" comprises the UPKs that do not participate in the surveys, an explicit condition to get access
to follow-up support. It is assumed that they are either not interested in follow-up support, are close to
bankruptcy or have already terminated revolving fund operations. All UPKs identified as revolving fund
managers will be covered by some project activities. But, "Class D/C" UPKs will be assisted only to
orderly and officially terminate revolving fund operations. In-depth assessments carried out during this
activity may still come to the conclusion that single UPKs should be upgraded to
E. Project Implementation and Inputs
Major project activities
Output 1
*  Socialization workshops for eligible UPKs at kabupaten level.
*  Selection of participating UPKs based on assessment of development prospects and
application documenting willingness to comply with project principles.
*  Technical assistance to get ownership and governance structure right.
*  Technical assistance to get organization and management right.
Output 2
*  Assessment of capability and training needs of UPK managers and staff.
*  Workshop on preparing institutional development plans for each UPK and follow-up
technical assistance.
*  First training course on UPK organization and administration, accounting and financial
reporting, target groups and credit management.
*  Follow-up technical assistance to transfer knowledge of first training into practice.
*  Second training course on comprehensive credit management, internal control and financial
analysis.
*  Follow-up technical assistance to transfer knowledge of second training into practice.
*  Third training course on financial management.
*  Follow-up technical assistance to transfer knowledge of third training into practice.
Output 3
*  Workshop on establishing and strengthening UPK associations.
*  Preparation of by-laws and work plans for associations.



8
ISDS
*  Provision of office equipment and staffing of associations.
*  Training on UPK supervision and follow-up technical assistance.
*  Facilitating cooperation between associations and local government to prepare legal status,
regulatory and supervision system for UPKs.
Output 4
*  Preparing logical framework and implementation manual.
*  Procuring microfinance firm and/or capable microfinance experts.
*  Preparing technical manuals and materials for training, technical assistance and supervision.
*  Preparing implementation plans with technical assistance and supervision carried out at least
once a month for each UPK.
*  Transfer of technical assistance and supervision functions to UPK associations.
*  Cooperation with local government to establish enabling regulatory framework and
cooperation model with UPK associations.
Component 4: Special Programs, Studies and Evaluations ($5.5 million)
KDP maintains a robust program for analytical and evaluation work, which would be continued under
KDP-3. Terms of reference for two quantitative studies would be available by appraisal: a poverty impact
evaluation based on a panel first surveyed under KDP-1, and a statistical sample that would include
additional questions added to the large expenditure and infrastructure surveys managed by the Statistical
Bureau (BPS). This component also funds a series of studies designed to assess the economic and social
efficiency of KDP interventions in the following areas: support for vulnerable groups within villages,
dissemination of economic information, use of redress mechanisms for dispute resolution, governance
spillover effects, and reductions of corruption. Outputs expected from the monitoring and evaluation
program are as follows:
Output 1: Internal Monitoring
Community participatory monitoring in all villages
Financial supervision in at least 10% of all subdistricts
Technical audits in 10% of all villages
Complaints resolution database to resolve at least 75% of annual cases
Bi-monthly newsletter to reach all villages
Output 2: External Monitoring
Independent NGOs in each province to monitor 2 districts per year
Independent journalists to publish field reports in regional and national newspapers
Reports from legal aid program (3 provinces)
Independent audits
Output 3: Internal Evaluations
Review of infrastructure quality
Review of economic benefits
Local government survey
Evaluation of special program for Papua
Ethnographic reviews on special topics
Output 4: External Evaluations



9
ISDS
4,500 HH impact survey
55,000 HH Susenas survey
Review of anti-corruption incentives
Civil society review of governance impacts



10
ISDS
Table 3 1 Estimated Cost Table
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                       Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
Kecamatan Grants for Infrastructure                 253.00      67.1    155.10      62.1
Kecamatan Grants for Planning                        25.90       6.9     25.90      10.4
Community Capacity Building                          41.80      11.1     35.20      14.1
UPK Microfinance support                              8.70       2.3      8.70       3.5
Implementation Support                               39.90      10.6     17.90       7.2
M&E and Studies                                       3.10       0.8      3.10       1.2
Incremental Operational Cost                          2.40       0.6      1.90       0.8
Total Project Costs  374.80   99.4     247.80      99.2
Front-end fee   2.10       0.6       2.10       0.8
Total Financing Required  376.90     100.0    249.90     100.0
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
This is a national project that covers approximately 25% of all villages in Indonesia.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                           * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                0 Yes 0 No



11
ISDS
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' c/ains
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Individual subprojects are small and therefore no large, significant, or irreversible impacts are expected. The
typical project will be a 4-6 km.s farm to market road, many of which are upgrades on existing tracks. Other
subprojects include clean water, bridges, primary school repairs, etc. Environmental risks are standard ones
for CDD projects: village encroachment into protected habitats, poor natural resource management, and bad
environmental engineering. Past experience suggests that the two key steps for mitigating such risks are (i)
close attention to site selection; and (ii) improving the training and sanctioning of supervising engineers.
The Bank's environmental and social unit will support preparation of TOR for a thematic review of impact
experience.
The project operates in isolated parts of the country. As a demand-driven investment fund, no adverse
impacts on indigenous people are expected and none have ever been found after 3 years of implementation.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component
No two subprojects are connected and thus no cumulative impacts are anticipated.
Il.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Improving village welfare will have mixed results: in some areas populations will leave for cities and
other sources of employment, in others improving access will lead to a virtuous development circle.
Overall, however, per capita amounts ($2-$6) are too small to produce long term impacts of the type
associated with cumulative environmental destruction.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
1I.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
KDP-2 has a project land acquisition and resettlement policy that has been reviewed by EASES and
LEGEA. Field reviews report good implementation of the policy. KDP does not involve state powers of
eminent domain at any stage, and land transactions can only take place on a willing-buyer/willing seller
basis. Land acquisition assessments are part of the proposal review process and must be approved by the
district level oversight engineer. Land and resettlement are also recorded in the project's master database
and reviewed during field supervision. No significant adverse impacts from land acquisition or
involuntary resettlement have ever been reported from a KDP subproject.
As a highly participatory, demand-driven community project, there are few risks of adverse impacts on
indigenous communities and none have ever been reported. Thus, no special action plan to mitigate
adverse impacts will be prepared. However, KDP does have an overall safeguard policy framework
attached to its operating manual whose purpose is to ensure that project activities provide culturally
appropriate benefits through informed participation. There are opportunities to increase benefits for
vulnerable ethnic minorities, however. KDP's general strategy is to improve the quality of information
through better facilitation and local-language materials (i.e. support for local language community radio



12
ISDS
programming).
However, Papua presents a special challenge to the OP's directive to provide culturally compatible
development benefits. Again, while no adverse impacts from KDP have ever been reported from Papua,
benefits have not been where they should be, despite the program's general popularity in the villages.
KDP-1 tried to address the problems of Papua by working with Papuan NGOs and local governments to
make a special operational manual appropriate to Papua's conditions, and by out-sourcing facilitation one
very isolated kecamatan to a Church-based NGO.Both actions led to some improvement, but results
remained suboptimal.
One main constraint on KDP success in Papua has been the lack of qualified field personnel. Past
government strategies of bringing in more qualified specialists from elsewhere in Indonesia have also
become increasingly problematic given the political instability and rising nationalism of the province.To
address this, KDP-2 developed a unique program to recruit and train bright young Papuan villagers in a
special training program designed jointly with Papuan NGOs and the provincial university. Each
subdistrict participating in KDP can nominate three of its brightest high school graduates for a nine
month training course in the university, which will be followed by one year of mentoring by the trainers
in their field stations. Graduates of the program will be certified civil engineers.
The first year of the program has seen 230 participants, three times as many as were anticipated during
the appraisal of KDP-2 (this is because the decentralization laws gave Papuan local governments a
windfall, and many of them have already taken up KDP-2 matching grant option). Initial assessments are
very positive. Appraisal of KDP-3 will assess the sustainability of the model, which at present is too
expensive. Options include private sector and local government co-financing, or concentrating on
structured follow-through for the recent graduates.
IL.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
KDP is a participatory project. Primary stakeholders participate through all stages of the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



13
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 2/25/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/5/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/15/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 2/25/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/5/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/1/2005
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Scott E. Guggenheim                         5/13/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Thomas E. Walton                       5/13/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Bruce M. Harris                        5/13/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                          5/13/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Maria Teresa Serra                          5/13/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
LSEAFCH        FEED5FI E AC   rtr MAP  . . IOWCASE _     I



