Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB99
Project Name               INDONESIA-Third Kecamatan Development Project
Region                     East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                     Sub-national government administration (25%); Roads and highways (20%);
Irrigation and drainage (20%); Water supply (20%); Primary education (15%)
Theme                      Decentralization (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Civic engagement;
participation and community driven development (P); Social risk coping (P);
Rural services and infrastructure (S)
Project                    P079 156
Borrower(s)                REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Implementing Agency(ies)   MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
Address: PMD, KI 19; JI Pasar Minggu Raya, Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Mr. Bito Wikantosa
Tel: (62-21) 7917 1684  Fax: (62-21) 7919 6118   Emal[
Environment Category       B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared          May 27, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date        May 20, 2003
Bank Approval Date         June 26, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
A multi-sectoral project such as KDP must confront a broad range of sector specific issues. Appraisal
reports for KDPI and KDP2 addressed sectoral issues with respect to community development, technical
capacity, and fiduciary concerns. KDP-3 will specifically address two important institutional dimension
within the KDP program: giving village empowerment a more solid legal and administrative foundation,
and providing a rationalized management framework for community microfinance.
I. Community Empowerment and Local Governance
A. The Governance Divide in Rural Indonesia. The Local Level Institution (LLI) studies carried out
by the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), Ministry of Home Affair (MoHA) and the World Bank
identified a gap in local governance that exists in the large majority of Indonesian rural villages. This gap
usually translates into a lack of trust, apathy and a low-quality dialogue about development. Externally
induced development models that do not recognize the core problem of the local governance divide limit
their own likelihood of success. Evidence of this root problem can be seen in the universally reported
problem of poor public infrastructure construction standards and poorer maintenance in Indonesian
villages, clear signs of little local ownership. As a result, social and economic resources are not as well
used as they could be, particularly with respect to rural poverty reduction. Some of the most important
reasons for this gap are:
>   'Villages' are not 'communities'. Despite formal definitions and descriptions, villages are
collections of often highly independent neighborhoods, hamlets and sub-villages, sometimes
far apart, with their own economic and social structures. Voluntary cooperation among these
sub-units is by no means the standard and 'village government' is often a distant, abstract
notion.
> Information does not flow freely. Indonesia's New Order government concentrated access to
development information within the executive branch. Internal government checks and



2
PID
balances were weakened or disappeared. Civil society organizations and media that could
provide alternative channels of information flow were banned from entering villages. Even
private banks were usually required to obtain counter-signatures from village heads before
they could advance loans. Furthermore, the executive also became the main channel for
redress. As a result, information flows upwards also withered away.
>  Local government lacks downward accountability. Village and subdistrict heads, when not
directly appointed by the district head, could be replaced by him at will. All reporting was
from the local government upwards, never to local constituents. With no institutional
mechanisms to provide checks and balances between local leadership and constituencies,
communities as well as leaders came to view local government as the extension of the central
government into the village, not as their own mechanism for relaying local concerns to
higher levels of government.
>   Villages do not control their own developmentfunds. Government projects for communities
are typically decided in district capitals, with little or no planning information given to the
villagers themselves. A tabulation of a sample of 45 village planning requests found that only
8 percent of village requests were met by government projects. The small public funds given
for village development were nearly entirely earmarked for government officers. Regulations
passed in the 1 990s went so far as to prohibit villagers from supervising or maintaining
works constructed through public funds, and functions which instead were done through
contractors.
>  Community attitudes do not change quickly. After forty years of tight security and demands
for unquestioned loyalty and obedience, villagers are still uncertain how to oppose
corruption and poor leadership. There is usually a preference to reduce contact with formal
leaders to a minimum.
>  Local government attitude towards village-government relationships have not significantly
changed. Under 'decentralization', villages still do not have a direct voice in district-level
development planning. Instead, villagers are expected to implement regulations and projects
decided elsewhere.
Nevertheless, there are a number of encouraging signs that opportunities exist to change this situation.
Gol itself launched the current generation of community development programs through a flawed but
innovative "Project for Left Behind Villages (IDT)," which for the first time, provided direct transfers to
village governments. Both of the LLI studies and the first KDP argued that there are operational ways to
return control of low level decision making to village users without requiring wholesale changes to the
Indonesian administrative system. The key to this first round lay in decentralizing community fuinds to
preexisting representative decision-making bodies, and by adopting an active program to disseminate
project financial information. In most cases, making local governance bodies more representative,
however, required some additional tinkering with operational rules to ensure more broad-based
representation and participation in decision meetings. Other sectors pursuing the route of direct transfers
to user groups, most notably irrigation and school committees, also found large increases in the quality of
construction and the satisfaction of communities.
Changes to local government. The second LLI study was completed in 2001. One of its most interesting
findings was that leadership had undergone a significant change in nearly half of the villages studied.
Village heads and the newly formed Village Representative Councils (BPDs) did not come from the
"dynastic" families that had controlled village politics under local administrations, and a large majority



3
PID
of respondents reported that the new leadership was less corrupt and more responsive to the needs of the
villagers. However, the study also showed that most of these new leaders lacked the necessary skills and,
even more importantly, did not have effective ties to the district administration or parliament. Both sets
of findings have since been confirmed by reviews carried out by the Ford Foundation and the Partnership
for Local Governance. They form the basis for the village governance proposals that will be supported
through the proposed project.
B. Decentralization and village empowerment. Indonesia's decentralization program has been
extensively reviewed in a number of Bank reports. Two basic laws, Law 22/1999 on regional autonomy
and Law 25/1999 on financial balance, radically transformed the character of Indonesian public
administration. The two laws ensured that district governments will eventually control over 40 percent
of total government spending. Over 100 implementing instructions, regulations, and guidelines were
prepared to accompany the new laws, but most of these had not been adequately discussed in the newly
empowered parliament and relatively few have been issued. As a result, the administrative "state of
play", while clearly favoring decentralization, remains very much in flux, with struggles back and forth
over responsibilities, reporting requirements, dispute resolution mechanisms and the like. Development
projects have also faced a broad range of implementation problems because of this lack of institutional
clarity, and one purpose of the proposed KDP-3 is to help local governments implement Law 22/1999 in
operational ways.
With administrations that lack both governance experience and clear assignments of responsibilities,
political struggles within the different branches of district governments have also led to institutional
turmoil over the powers newly released by the national government, and the emergence of local private
interests seeking to capture public decision-making. Nevertheless, in many areas decentralization has
moved forward well, and local governments have started to work out their own modus vivendi between
their different branches.
Village relations to districts. One element of Law 22 that has received much less attention was the
broadening of village autonomy. Villages can now own assets, borrow money (although this authority is
now on hold), establish village-owned businesses, and, in certain cases, reject government action in their
village, although the language of the law remains somewhat vague on these issues.
But Law 22 also reinforced the dependence of villages on district government decisions. The dominant
position of district government was more or less formalized by one of the implementing regulations of
Law 22, the "General Guidelines on Regulating Villages", a document that leaves most of the details to
the district government. Some major points of this regulation include:
>  The decree assigns legislative authority to local governments to draw up 13 regulations on
such vital issues as village head elections, the 'formation' of the BPDs, and the status of
village regulations in relation to 'public interest' (allowing the district to nullify almost any
village regulation), and inter-village cooperation.
> The decree undermines its own authority by confirming that it is only a 'guideline' (
pedoman), for local governments to follow when drawing up district regulations (perda 's).
Add to this the stipulation that perda 's are no longer subject to 'central' approval Art. 72.
(local governments only need to submit a copy within 15 days), and the potential for rigid
and unjust regulation of village powers is clear.
> The districts are even given authority to regulate traditional institutions and the role of local



4
PID
custom, elements of village life that should per definition remain outside formal rules. Local
government can now capture elements that are 'useful' for their purposes and eliminate
aspects that are troublesome to them.
Villages still have little to say about development planning policies. As in the pre-1999 days, as far as
villages are concerned, development planning and policies are still top-down. Villages do not have a
formally defined mechanism to participate in district decision making. At district-level planning
meetings, village representatives are not present. At best they are still represented by the subdistrict head
(camat), although he has now formally become a member of the bupati 's staff and is not selected from
below.
Village administrations lack resources. In 1996 every Indonesian village received Rp 6.5 million in
development funds. In 1999 this was around Rp 10 million. In 2001, after decentralization, amounts vary
sharply. LLI reports showed that some Central Java villages received Rp 30 million, while surveys in
North Sumatra, East Nusa Tenggara (NTT), and Lampung districts found many districts where villages
received no funds at all.
By way of summary, then, this review of local governance under decentralization illustrates the complex
nature of Indonesia's transition even at the level of village development. The administrative changes
brought in by decentralization open the door to reform, but at the same time they increase the
opportunities for districts to install a more direct control over village institutions than was ever possible
in the past. Comparative experience with decentralization elsewhere suggests that an additional variable
-- the extension of political parties into local politics -- is likely to exacerbate this already complex
equation.
C. Administrative actions to promote village empowerment. KDP's overall strategy for village
empowerment rests on three legs, which are reflected to varying degrees in each of the three projects.
KDP-I concentrated primarily on developing participatory processes for development planning,
management, and monitoring. KDP-2 concentrates on giving villagers the technical tools to manage
public funds: infrastructure assessments and technical training, higher quality book-keeping and
procurement, linkages to technical and private sector service providers, etc. The proposed KDP-3 project
highlights the institutional dimensions of village empowerment. Bappenas, Home Affairs, and the WB
task team have identified three sets of actions that are needed to strengthen village governance within the
decentralized public administration. These are (i) protecting village autonomy; (ii) improving village
capacities to represent themselves in higher level institutions; and (iii) creating representative
inter-village bodies.
Protecting Village Autonomy
National legislation to protect the rights of villages. Most of the 13 regulations assigned to local
government ("perdas") can have a direct impact on the quality of village government. The central
government should therefore provide a binding outline for such regulations, with clauses that are fixed
and unalterable by local government and (mainly technical) clauses that may be adjusted to local
conditions. This will ensure proper interpretation of Law 22 concerning village autonomy. The national
regulation outline should therefore be based on the district-level regulations that are already been made
operational by local governments during the past two or three years. The good and reasonable ones
should be taken as models and then molded into 13 standard national model laws. In this manner, the
proposed national law would be a reflection of what is best among local regulations. The makers of the
model regulations could explain to their colleagues in other districts why they drafted the regulations the
way they did and their experience has been with implementation. Districts that still have not yet issued



5
PID
the required 13 perda 's can proceed immediately on the basis of the 13 models.
Civic information and education programs. In order to give village autonomy meaning, village leaders
and villagers should know about their rights and the ways to protect them. This 'instruction' should not
be limited to village group discussions and one-way presentation of texts and diagrams. Programs should
also cover schools, religious institutions and should make use of books, magazines and radio programs.
Training in administrative and monitoring skills to reinforce village administration. Local government
criticism of village-level administration, monitoring capabilities and reporting skills is often
well-founded. Villages are not strong in these areas because they were never allowed to practice them in
the past. With enhanced autonomy, they will need to master these skills. Broad civic education may also
stimulate interest in taking up formal posts in village government, the BPD and other village institutions.
The current shortage of candidates is partly due to the fact that people do not know what they can do with
their powers and see their tasks largely as pro forma .
Continuing studies of village governments and their relationship to village capacity and social capital.
The impact of new legislation and empowerment programs should be regularly evaluated to assess their
impact on the quality of local leaders, institutions, governance practices. Government and society at
village level is complex and diverse. Programs and projects do not always work the way they were
expected to.
Strengthening Capacity for Village Representation and Local Accountability
Law 22 of 1999 explicitly enshrines the principles of empowerment and autonomy as the basis for village
government under decentralization, stating that the basis for the new regulations for village government
is 'diversity, participation, genuine autonomy, democratization and people's empowerment'. However, it
is local implementing regulations-in particular, perdas passed by local parliaments-that will determine
whether this new basis for village government is realized in practice. Such regulations are also the
pre-conditions for providing development assistance to villages through non ad hoc procedures.
KDP 3's local governance strategy builds on the village-level work of KDP 1 and KDP 2. It focuses on
the relationships among villages and district governments. It will help develop the capacity of local
governments to draft and pass local legislation that promotes the village representation and district-level
accountability defined by Law 22/1999. In the long term, this effort will ensure the sustainability of
KDP-induced practices, such as a community-driven approach to development, and will encourage local
governments to hand over increasingly larger portions of their authority and resources (especially budget)
to the village level. KDP's strategy involves:
Review of regulations concerning village councils and other representative bodies. National legislation
and district regulations should ensure that the BPDs are (i) diverse (representing, as much as possible,
women, the poor, outlying hamlets and clusters, cultural minorities); and (ii) accountable to the
communities they represent. Responsive and accountable BPDs will enhance responsiveness on the part
of formal leaders and stimulate involvement by villagers in public issues. Several recent studies by GOI
and Indonesian universities support the view that the new village representative councils should be given
priority support.
Support for the drafting and public monitoring of district regulations. Legislative drafters at the DPRD II
level have inadequate technical skills, poor knowledge of the law and a lack of access to examples of
well-drafted legislation. As a result, perdas are often drafted vaguely or badly. Those related to village



6
PID
governance may not reflect the principles of village autonomy and empowerment provided for in Law 22.
Poor public access to perdas also hinders the capacity of the public to monitor local legislation and
ensure that perdas are not used by local government as a vehicle for promoting personal and partisan
interests. GOI efforts thus concentrate on:
a. Public access to all perdas. There should be a distribution center to provide copies of local
regulations and other public information on policies and projects to promote greater monitoring
by the public of local regulations
b. Improving the capacity of the technical staff of representative bodies to draft legislation. This
would take two forms: (i) Providing them with examples of best practice from elsewhere and
opportunities for public dialogue; and (ii) drafting courses for district and DPRD H technical
staff. Simple wording and sentences will help the implementation and enforcement of district
regulations. Consistent formatting and lay-out will also enhance transparency.
Guarantee a minimum of funding directly to villages
If villages are expected to do more, they should be given some financial operating space to do this.
Currently, district budgets are heavily skewed towards overhead and district-controlled projects. KDP-3
provides resources to support the strengthened local administrations.
D. Inter Village Cooperation
In a national context, establishing inter-village cohesion is perhaps more important than strengthening
individual villages. The physical and sociological distance between a village and a district is enormous.
In the past, subdistricts (kecamatans) brokered the relationship -- most villagers would be willing to
travel to subdistricts, and it was reasonable to expect subdistrict officers to visit most of the villages with
their kecamatan. Now that Law 22/1999 has made the camat a district official, the resulting vacuum must
be filled by the villages themselves, before a district-controlled institution is installed. (There are already
examples where this is happening).
Enhancing village capacity to overcome problems collectively will provide several benefits to district
government, among them:
a. Fulfilling joint needs, including the effects of natural disasters, more effectively.
b. Resolution of horizontal disputes between villages.
c. Enhancing bargaining position in dealings with higher government.
d. Making better use of opportunities provided by bottom-up development planning
mechanisms.
Inter-village cooperation should be left to the villages as much as possible. Nevertheless, as with village
autonomy, some issues should be regulated at the national level to protect the basic principles of
democratic, transparent and accountable decision-making. A Ford Foundation supported study found that
"... Some kabupatens had issued PERDAs on (inter-village collaboration fora) but none had any
guidelines for its implementation."
Basic elements for the Inter-Village Forum already exist within KDP and the draft regulations prepared



7
PID
by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Additions and modifications to the draft should specify:
a. Joining criteria. A Inter-Village Forum should not be mandatory. Law 22 rightly leaves the
decision to establish a forum up to the villages. If a Inter-Village Forum is established in a
certain area, each individual village should be free to join or not. Although refusal to join
could exclude it from certain advantages (e.g., a village that wants to participate in KDP,
must also participate in the Inter-Village Forum).
b. Internal rules. Before villages actually meet to discuss cooperation, disputes etc., they
should first agree on intemal rules: chairperson/committee selection; whether to have an
elected secretariat; cost/funding of meetings; venue; reporting/records etc.
c. Scope of decision-making authority (priorities, funds, project implementation etc.).
d. Implementation ofprojects. The Inter-Village Forum is, in principle, an informal body. It can
therefore not take on formal, legally binding responsibilities. Villages involved in
cooperation projects would each be responsible, separately, for their share in the project
(project quality, management, administration etc.), according to a proposal approved by the
Inter-Village Forum. The Forum's main task would be to monitor implementation based on
the approved proposal.
II.    Revolving Funds and Credit for Economic Activities
The second intervention of KDP3 will be to strengthen microfinance by providing professional oversight
and supervision to the revolving funds. The main microfinance (and rural finance) sector issues are: (a)
the persistence of unsustainable program microcredit; (b) the lacking outreach of institutional
microfinance to rural villages; and (c) the lack of institutionalized support and supervision for
microfinance institutions operating outside the banking sector.
Unsustainable credit programs. Program microcredit has been provided mainly by the Government
through special credit schemes and poverty alleviation programs. The prevailing features of program
microcredit have been: (i) emphasis on channeling easy and cheap funds; (ii) neglect of the demand for
savings and liquidity management instruments; (iii) central designs neglecting locally varying demand
and conditions; (iv) instant intervention neglecting the need for longer-term and gradual strategies; (v)
lack of proper program monitoring and credit supervision; and (vi) poor credit collection and
de-capitalization of loanable funds. This break with prudential microfinance standards was deepened by
the channeling of huge amounts of subsidized funds during and after the financial crisis. This has
impaired rather than supported low-income clients in getting access to sustained and growing
microfinance services, and it tends to undermine rather than complement the development of sustainable
institutional microfinance institutions.
Government policies in this respect have not changed. Most sector ministries which continue to use
subsidized program credit on a large scale. The recent draft Indonesian I-PRSP emphasizes "...easier
access to be given to the poor to financing sources through the Micro Credit, Small Credit and
Cooperatives Credit programs ...on concessional terms". There is neither a consistent microfinance vision
and policy nor an enabling legal and regulatory framework for the sound development of non-bank
microfinance institutions. The Ministry of Finance is presently reviewing a drafted microfinance law.
The Bank has been providing assistance as part of the partnership financial sector work that concentrates
on (i) assisting Gol develop a vision and strategy for financial services to the poor; (ii) clarifying and
unifying the legal and regulatory framework for microfinance institutions, and (iii) capacity building
issues for microfinance institutions, including dissemination of best practice tools.



8
PID
Lack of credit outreach. Despite all efforts of financial deepening, the majority of villagers does not
have sustained access to financial services, especially microcredit. The major demand-supply gap in
institutional microfinance exists at the village level. Sustainable microfinance providers such as the BRI
unit and the BPR systems have not been able to close this gap. The renaissance of targeted credit policy
and program microcredit has been aiming at increasing outreach quickly, while neglecting institution
building and sustainability. Institutional microfinance outside the banking sector is usually referred to as
LKM (Lembaga Keuangan Mikro = microfinancial institution). Government programs have been
increasingly promoting and using LKM for channeling funds to target beneficiaries. This practice has
already corrupted the integrity of cooperatives and will hardly result in the development of independent
and viable non-bank microfinance institutions.
Lack of supervision and monitoring A major issue for the development of non-bank microfinance
institutions is the lack of institutionalized effective support and supervision. Both the cooperative sector
and the usually government-driven LDKP have been suffering from this situation. Community-owned
microfinance institutions do not have sustained access to capacity building through institutional providers
of training, consultancy and supervision services. Projects partly provide these services for a limited time
and often without the necessary quality through individual consultants. A strategy focusing on the
institutional strengthening of non-bank microfinance institutions would have to include innovative
approaches of ensuring sustained access to demand-oriented technical assistance and effective
supervision. Supervision of non-bank microfinance institutions is necessary for supporting their sound
development and part of a capacity building strategy rather than only a function of deposit protection or
enforcing regulations. It must be locally available whether or not non-bank microfinance institutions will
be regulated and supervised by the central government.
Future microfinance sector strategy. The strategic challenge is to combine increasing outreach and
sustainability within a financial systems approach. An important element of this strategy is a vision of the
institutional microfinance landscape some 10-20 years from now. This vision most probably will have
three major pillars: (a) the BRI unit system increasing outreach to the village level, while maintaining its
present soundness; (b) the BPR system with increased viability and downward mobility to the village
level; and (c) non-bank microfinance institutions focusing on providing financial services at the village
level. The latter include financial cooperatives as well as mncrofinance institutions owned and controlled
by communities. A first step towards this vision would be a policy change giving priority to institution
building for sustainable microfinance, thus terminating solely outreach-oriented, and politically and
socially motivated, channeling of government funds, and especially refraining from using LKM as
channeling devices.
Community-owned microfinance institutions may not in all locations be a viable or advisable option.
Sustainable institutional development will not be feasible in more isolated and very poor areas, in areas
highly dominated by agriculture and without diversified economic opportunities, and in areas lacking the
human resources required for this development. Where BRI units and BPRs are actively increasing
outreach to villages in a competitive environment, strategies should support them rather than establishing
new competitors. Nonetheless, the community-driven revolving funds have indicated that there is
considerable unmet credit demand and sufficient room to move for well managed community-owned
microfinance institutions.



9
PID
2. Objectives
KDP-3 has overall development objectives of reducing poverty and improving local-level
governance in rural Indonesia. It is part of a long-term village level govemance program that
began with the first Kecamatan Project in 1998.
Specific development objectives for KDP-3 include: (i) institutionalizing participatory processes
in local government; (ii) the cost effective provision of basic social and economic infrastructure;
(iii) strengthening the capacity of the micro-finance institutions developed under KDP- 1 and
KDP-2 to manage and monitor funds sustainably.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank contributions to the KDP program are valuable in four main areas. First, the Bank provides
oversight and pressure on what all stakeholders (even government) agree is an extraordinarily poor
fiduciary environment. Bank participation therefore contributes greatly to the effectiveness by which aid
is used. Second, Indonesian agencies normally do not carry out very rigorous monitoring and evaluation
programs. This approach works reasonably well for tried and true programs which extend basic
development benefits to new groups. Constantly evolving projects such as KDP, however, require much
closer monitoring and evaluation because they are still at a stage where there are few standard procedures
and known outcomes. The Bank has played and will continue to play a central role in helping GOI use
quantitative and qualitative measurements to improve the program's design. Such studies are appreciated
and used when they are done, but they will not be done without WB involvement. Third, while Indonesia
has some of the world's best experiences in providing sustainable small credit (through BRI), it has
considerably less experience with micro-credit for the poor. Village-level credit in the past was
commonly provided as subsidized transfers through line agency programs, with little expectation of
repayment or oversight of use. Indonesia can no longer afford such programs. Nevertheless, a shift over
to sustainable micro-finance will require a major effort, where worldwide experience in other poor
countries will be of major assistance.
4. Description
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
5. The Indonesian Pilot for Enhanced Disclosure of Information being pursued in the context
of the Bank's revised Information Disclosure Policy
Component 1: Block grants to kecamatans ($278.9 million) -- The heart of KDP3 consists of block
grants that are transferred directly from the Special Account to the subdistricts thata are participating in
KDP. Block grants take two forms. One block grant supports investment proposals made by villages and
selected by consensus in an inter-village decision meeting. The second consists of block grants to support
the participatory planning process. Each is described below.
A.     Block investment grants to KDP-3 communities -- ($253.0 million) - The purpose of this
component is to provide two years continued support for the block grant program in approximately 2,000
subdistricts that have already been through 3 years of KDP. A limited number of additional eligibility
criteria apply to new subdistricts:



10
PID
i. subdistricts in new high poverty districts which were previously ineligible for KDP;
ii. post-conflict areas where KDP provides the platform for other post conflict services; and
iii. kecamatans proposed by districts for full funding from their own budgets but where TA is
requested;
KDP block grant amounts will remain the same: 500, 750, or 1,000 million rupiah per subdistrict
(approx. US$55,000, $75,000, or $110,000) based on their population. This component also includes
implementation costs for facilitators and government operational funds.
B.     Kecamatan planning grants ($25.9 million) supports the village and kecamatan planning
process by allowing villagers to develop a cadre of self-selected social and technical facilitators. Other
activities funded through this component include village cross-audits, dissemination materials, and the
costs of local travel.
Component 2: Developing community and local government ($41.8 million of which $$35.2 million
is Bank financing and $6.6 is GOI financing) -- This component consists of activities to strengthen the
local government councils formed under Laws 22 and 25, with a particular focus on the village
representative forum (BPD), inter-village forums (FAD), and the district parliaments. Most of the
component finances social and technical facilitators. Facilitators are recruited from the private sector.
They receive a project-managed training program as well as periodic refresher courses. Other activities
include: technical assistance for BPD capacity development; training in administration and monitoring
skills to reinforce village administration, and village-level civic information and education programs
about decentralization. Local governments would contribute in financing local regulations development
processes.
Component 3: Support to Village Micro-Finance Institutions ($8.7 million) -- Sustaining UPK
revolving fund operations is about the development of local financial institutions. The major problems
experienced by eligible UPKs are inadequate organization, governance and management capacity rather
than the lack of loanable funds. This requires giving focus to the organizational and financial
development of each institution, thus making microfinance and institutional development expertise
locally available.
Under the proposed KDP-3, no new groups would be created and the project will not provide additional
investment funds. The direct target group of the project are UPKs that have graduated from KDP-1 or
will graduate from KDP-2. If economically feasible and institutionally eligible, the project would give
communities the opportunity to develop their UPKs into sustainable service providers. With the
termination of KDP-1 in 2002 regular project support was withdrawn from 45% of its 986 participating
kecamatans. The remaining kecamatans will continue to participate in KDP-2 until they have gone
through the maximum three years of support provided by KDP. The purpose of this component within the
proposed KDP-3 is to ensure a more orderly project withdrawal by giving each eligible KDP kecamatan
the opportunity to move from program to local funding in kecamatans that have graduated from KDP-1 or
will graduate from KDP-2.
Project support will be limited to training, technical assistance and supervision. It will focus on the
effective and efficient use of the currently existing funds to let loan funds grow. In most cases, the
project does not envisage using savings as a source of loan funds for long-term sustainability although
over the longer term this is a desirable objective. Low-income households at the village level often need
appropriate savings products rather than business credit. However, the current weakness of UPKs



11
PID
exposes savings deposits to high risk. Savings as a source of loan funds will be introduced later and
gradually, if UPK organization, governance and management as well as the legal framework support this
step. As savings mobilization will not be an immediate development step, appraisal will assess whether
the project should open a very restricted window of financial assistance for UPKs. Guidance on this
issue will be sought from the RD/FSO team preparing the Sustaining Microfinance Project and managing
the microfinance policy dialogue with GOI.
Component 4: Implementation Support (total $39.9 million of which $17.9 million is Bank financing
and $$22.0 million is GOI financing) - This component consists of technical assistance to the national,
provincial, and district governments. Each "level" of facilitator supports a corresponding level of
government. While at first glance the structure may appear to replicate positions that notionally exist
within the civil service structure, in actual fact these are positions that the government recognizes are not
appropriate for civil servants to perform. Using consultants rather than civil servants for technical
activities, including facilitation, is therefore part of the general governance strategy to privatize functions
best filled through the market. By contrast, freeing civil servants from such functions allows them to
concentrate on the policy and regulatory activities that their positions and job descriptions specify.
Additional activities funded through this component include training courses in legislative drafting, and
support to PMD for carrying out overall project evaluations through the provision of technical assistance.
GOI's contributions will cover the overall management, coordinations, monitoring and supervisions at
national, provincials, districts and subdistricts levels.
Component 5: Studies, Evaluation, and Special Programs ($3.1 million) -- Major activities to be
funded through this component are a program of poverty impact assessments using quantitative and
qualitative methods, continued support to the justice for the poor program started under KDP-2, pilot
programs for community based monitoring, and studies on village and subdistrict revenue generation,
trade, and infrastructure. TOR for the first-year's M&E program will be reviewed during appraisal.
Component 6: Operational Costs ($2.4 million) -- This component will fund the costs of
incremental travel and comsumables for the National KDP Secretariat. All expenses will be SOE
based on a three month travel plan.
A. Project Organization and Approach to Technical Assistance and Supervision
Component 1: Block grants -- KDP2 developed a comprehensive system for managing and supervising
a national level project that will be continued under the KDP-3 block grants. Consultants support each
level of govermment. A small national level oversight consultant supervises 15 five person regional
management units. Each regional group includes at least one supervising engineer, a social coordinator, a
trainer, a bookeeping group, and a database management specialist. Below them is a district team that
consists of a district technical specialist, who supports the subdistrict and village technical teams; and a
district level social specialist who supports the subdistrict and village facilitator teams. At the
bottom-most level of the system, each village elects a male and a female village facilitator whose job is to
disseminate project information, support training programs, and supervise the village level planning
process.
KDP subprojects also build in technical oversight. Communities receive a small budget for contracting
engineers from a pre-qualified list to help design project proposals, and project proposals can include up
to 10% to cover the costs of supervising engineers. All large projects must be individually reviewed and
approved by the KDP district engineer.



12
PID
Component 2: Institutionalizing community empowerment - Most of the training and workshop
activities covered under this component would be implemented through the regional management units
described for the block grant component, above. The majority will be carried out by regional NGOs and
recognized training institutes. However, more specialized technical assistance will be needed to support
the national legislative drafting and review process, and also for support to the DPRD technical staff
groups that deal with village governance.
Output 1: Binding outlines for 13 regulations on village government
Review of existing perdas
Multi-stakeholder drafting
Consultative process with KDP districts
DPRD approval
Output 2: Strengthening Representative Institutions
Core administration and monitoring training program for BPDs and FADs
Regional workshops and networks formed
Civic information and education programs
Drafting courses for DPRD and district staff
Output 3:Inter-village forums
Model implementing instruction produced by MoHA
Selection procedure and core rules promulgated
Internal rules for dispute resolution developed
Kecamatan public budgeting
Output 4: Community revenue enhancement
Adaptation of Kepress 18 to community contracting conditions
Guidelines on local revenue generation
Output 5: Institutionalizing participation
Village cross audits
Inter Kecamatan workshops
Kabupaten workshops
Component 3: Microfinance - The new strategy for developing UPKs has important consequences for
project organization and implementation, distinguishing it from that of KDP-1 and KDP-2.
A. This section elaborates in some detail the principles that will be followed during project preparation.
* The microfinance component will be separated from other project activities, and has its own
logical framework, budget and management.
* The national mucrofinance team should be small, but it must be staffed with high quality
experts having operational autonomy.
* Local consultants must be specialized in microfinance and must be responsible for single
UPKs with a workload enabling monthly visits to each UPK.
* The selection of local consultants (firms) and all activities in the fields of training, technical
assistance and supervision should support the objective to sustain these services with UPKs
gradually taking over the costs of services.
* Technical assistance must focus on developing UPK associations that can gradually assume



13
PID
functions of training, technical assistance and supervision.
*  Training and follow-up technical assistance must be closely linked to ensure transformation
of knowledge into practice.
*  Monthly off-site and on-site supervision must be available, first by project consultants then
by external parties and UPK associations.
*  Performance monitoring will be based on supervision results. Supervision will be carried out
on the basis of a standardized accounting and financial reporting system, which will be made
obligatory for participating UPKs.
Component 4 -- Implementation Support - KDP-2 introduced a new system for paying and managing
the facilitators. Rather than recruiting them through 30 odd companies that were deployed around the
country, the project replaced the management companies with a single payroll agent who would release
monthyl salaries to the individual consultants. KDP3 takes this system significantly further. All
facilitators will switch onto the direct payment system. Operational costs can also be provided as block
amounts through monthly payments. (See Annex 6 for additional explanation). Management of the
faciltiators has also changed somewhat. Village facilitators are recruited and managed through the BPD
(village legislature). Kecamatan and district faciltiators support district coordination teams. Both the
facilitators and the monitors join monthly review meetings with the district government. The national
consultant team that supports PMD also includes 14 regional management groups, thus replicating the
current structure in which provincial governments represent the center.
Component 5 -- Studies and Evaluations - KDP has always included a strong analytical program. This
component will continue to support MoHAs quantitative and qualitative monitoring through a series of
consultancies commissioned by PMD and managed by the technical consultants. The compoinent also
includes funds to support specialized evaluation firms. They will be commissioned and managed by the
Bappenas poverty secretariat, which is charged with strategic evaluation and planning.
KDP maintains a robust program for analytical and evaluation work, which would be continued under
KDP-3. Terms of reference for two quantitative studies would be available by appraisal: a poverty impact
evaluation based on a panel first surveyed under KDP-1, and a statistical sample that would include
additional questions added to the large expenditure and infrastructure surveys managed by the Statistical
Bureau (BPS). This component also funds a series of studies designed to assess the economic and social
efficiency of KDP interventions in the following areas: support for vulnerable groups within villages,
dissemination of economic information, use of redress mechanisms for dispute resolution, governance
spillover effects, and reductions of corruption. Outputs expected from the monitoring and evaluation
program are as follows:
Output 1: Internal Monitoring
Community participatory monitoring in all villages
Financial supervision in at least 10% of all subdistricts
Technical audits in 10% of all villages
Complaints resolution database to resolve at least 75% of annual cases
Bi-monthly newsletter to reach all villages
Output 2: External Monitoring
Independent NGOs in each province to monitor 2 districts per year
Independent journalists to publish field reports in regional and national newspapers
Reports from legal aid program (3 provinces)
Independent audits



14
PID
Output 3: Internal Evaluations
Review of infrastructure quality
Review of economic benefits
Local govermment survey
Evaluation of special program for Papua
Ethnographic reviews on special topics
Output 4: External Evaluations
4,500 HH impact survey
55,000 HH Susenas survey
Review of anti-corruption incentives
Civil society review of governance impacts
B. UPK Ownership and Governance
The successful development of UPKs requires an ownership and governance model that supports
sound microfinance operations. Community ownership must be given substance and organization to
become effective. Important principles are:
* Community ownership must be substantiated in annual community assemblies that decide on
general policies and elect a) a board of owner representatives taking policy decisions in
between the assemblies, and b) a supervisory board for the inspection of UPK operations.
Both boards are responsible to the annual assembly.
• The community assembly issues by-laws regulating ownership, objectives, organization and
operation of the community-owned microfinance institution.
* KDP grants allocated to loan activities must be defined as institutional (paid-up) capital of
the community-owned microfinance institution. The use of this capital is limited to providing
microcredit services.
* The UPK is defined as a specialized microfinance institution that has the objective to
increase outreach to low-income households at the village level. If UPKs are involved in
activities other than revolving fund management, they must be organizationally separated.
* The board of owner representatives selects UPK management based on clearly defined
criteria related to professional capability.
* The UPK management is responsible to the board of owner representatives, but it must be
operationally autonomous. It must have the authority and the responsibility to manage the
entire credit process. The UPK director is liable for loss.
C. UPK Management
Besides ownership and governance, financial and credit management capacity will be the most
crucial factor predicating the successful development of UPKs as microfinance institutions. Important
pnnciples are:
*  UPK management is responsible for protecting capital by prudential and cost-covering
operations, and for increasing loanable funds by generation of profits.
• The UPK must have a standard accounting and financial reporting system. Monthly financial
reports have to be submitted to the supervisory board and the external supervisor
(association, consultant, other independent party to be determined). A consolidated annual
report must be submitted to the community assembly.
* Credit management must be based on direct lender-borrower relationships.



15
PID
*  Credit decisions will be taken based on borrower eligibility and credit feasibility.
Community members with sustained access to institutional credit or without profitable
business opportunities and adequate repayment capacity are not eligible.
*  Credit groups must meet eligibility criteria, must be able to prepare loan proposals, and must
pledge measurable efforts of joint responsibility (i.e., collateral savings) to get access to
credit.
*  Borrowers have gradual access to credit based on track records. With low ceilings for first
time borrowers, well performing borrowers should have access to larger amounts and
sustained access to credit.
*  Interest rates must reflect local market rates, and must cover costs, including loan loss costs
and imputed capital (inflation) costs to sustain the net value of capital.
D. Classification and Selection of Participating UPKs
In June 2002, KDP carried out a survey to identify UPKs that may be eligible for further project
assistance. The UPKs participating in the survey were classified based on two indicators that tentatively
show their viability potential: a) the amount of net loan funds (capital minus bad debts) still available
(scale of economy) and b) the net loan fund to initial loan capital ratio (past performance). Results from
the survey make possible a simple classification that will guide overall KDP-3 microfinance support
"Class A" comprises the best performing UPKs with net loan funds larger than Rp. 125 million. This
class will have priority access to technical assistance aiming at developing viable microfinance
institutions. Pending final assessment of willingness and prospects, they will have access to the full range
of support services provided by the project.
"Class B" consists of UPKs that will have access to project support depending on certain conditions.
"Class BI" comprises UPKs with net loan funds larger than Rp. 125 million and a less convincing
performance. During the first year of project implementation they must have proved their willingness and
capability to improve performance to a level that later allows to upgrade them to "Class A". During the
second year of project implementation they must have upgraded to "Class A". "Class B2" consists of
well performing UPKs with net loan funds between Rp. 50 and Rp. 125 million. To reward their
performance, and depending on willingness and prospects, they will have access to a matching grant, the
maximum of which is the difference between current loan funds and Rp. 125 million (to be reviewed at
appraisal). "Class B3" consists of UPKs in the same net loan fund category but with a less convincing
performance. They would be given the same opportunity only, if they considerably improve performance
during the first project implementation year.
"Class C" comprises UPKs that either have net loan funds smaller than Rp. 50 million or have already
lost more than half of their initial loan funds. Among them are well performing ones that, however, have
net loan funds not larger than Rp. 25 million. The remaining worst performers include UPKs with
relatively large net loan funds. Theoretically, they would be able to break even and sustain operations.
However, this seems to be unrealistic because the loss of more than half of their loan funds points to
serious problems that cannot be solved within the limits of the proposed project.
"Class D" comprises the UPKs that do not participate in the surveys, an explicit condition to get access
to follow-up support. It is assumed that they are either not interested in follow-up support, are close to
bankruptcy or have already terminated revolving fund operations. All UPKs identified as revolving fund
managers will be covered by some project activities. But, "Class D/C" UPKs will be assisted only to
orderly and officially terminate revolving fund operations. In-depth assessments carried out during this



16
PID
activity may still come to the conclusion that single UPKs should be upgraded to
E. Project Implementation and Inputs
Major project activities
Output 1
* Socialization workshops for eligible UPKs at kabupaten level.
* Selection of participating UPKs based on assessment of development prospects and
application documenting willingness to comply with project principles.
* Technical assistance to get ownership and governance structure right.
* Technical assistance to get organization and management right.
Output 2
* Assessment of capability and training needs of UPK managers and staff.
* Workshop on preparing institutional development plans for each UPK and follow-up
technical assistance.
* First training course on UPK organization and administration, accounting and financial
reporting, target groups and credit management.
* Follow-up technical assistance to transfer knowledge of first training into practice.
* Second training course on comprehensive credit management, internal control and financial
analysis.
* Follow-up technical assistance to transfer knowledge of second training into practice.
* Third training course on financial management.
* Follow-up technical assistance to transfer knowledge of third training into practice.
Output 3
* Workshop on establishing and strengthening UPK associations.
* Preparation of by-laws and work plans for associations.
* Provision of office equipment and staffing of associations.
* Training on UPK supervision and follow-up technical assistance.
* Facilitating cooperation between associations and local government to prepare legal status,
regulatory and supervision system for UPKs.
Output 4
* Preparing logical framework and implementation manual.
* Procuring microfinance firm and/or capable microfinance experts.
* Preparing technical manuals and materials for training, technical assistance and supervision.
* Preparing implementation plans with technical assistance and supervision carried out at least
once a month for each UPK.
* Transfer of technical assistance and supervision functions to UPK associations.
* Cooperation with local government to establish enabling regulatory framework and
cooperation model with UPK associations.
Table 3.1: Estimated Cost Table



17
PID
Kecamatan Grants for Infrastructure
Kecamatan Grants for Planning
Community Capacity Building
UPK Microfinance support
Implementation Support
M&E and Studies
Incremental Operational Cost
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($119.50)
IBRD ($161.40)
IDA ($86.00)
Total Project Cost: $366.90
6. Implementation
Overall management of the KDP program is by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Sectoral issues are
addressed through a national level coordination board that includes members of all relevant sectoral
agencies, finance, audit, and planning. Thus, while KDP-1 only included the Ministry of Infrastructure in
its coordination board, KDP-2 brought in health and education. to provide policy guidance for their
respective sectors. KDP-3 will bring in the Bank of Indonesia, BRI, and the relevant branch of the
Ministry of Finance that deals with microfinance oversight.
Provincial and district management replicate the national structure. Each province and district maintains
a coordination board that has multi-sectoral participation. It reports to the district head (bupati) on a
monthly basis.
Operational management is through a national management consultant. In KDP-1, the national team
included almost 50 senior staff (the project covered 16,000 villages). In KDP-2, the total number of
Jakarta based consultants dropped to 35, although the total number of villages rose to 20,000. The reason
for this change is because each province developed a 5-7 person regional management unit to provide
field oversight, coordination with local government, training, and reporting. KDP-3 will continue to
strengthen the regional management units by giving them limited procurement capacity and authority.
Services to be procured at the provincial level will include training programs (esp. for micro-finance),
local printing, and specialized studies
Untitled Section
5. The Indonesian Pilot for Enhanced Disclosure of Information being pursued in the context of
the Bank's revised Information Disclosure Policy:
As part of the implementation of the Bank's revised disclosure policy, countries were selected for
piloting enhanced disclosure if the governments of these countries were interested in
participating. In Indonesia during the CAS consultations and other discussions, both the
government and civil society expressed keen interest in substantially greater access to
information on Bank activities, especially during project implementation, to allow full public
discussion of project implementation findings. Under the Indonesia pilot enhanced disclosure is
proposed to enable civil society oversight leading to greater transparency and openness. It is
expected that initially civil society will require time to become familiar and reach the level of
understanding of the information being provided, to use it constructively to reduce fiduciary risks



18
PID
In the Indonesia Pilot for enhanced information disclosure being carried out in the context of the
Bank's revised Information Disclosure Policy, an approach to enhanced information disclosure
has been agreed with BAPPENAS on behalf of the Borrower. This approach consists of the
following arrangements:
a. Agreement on the approach for disclosure of information for new projects to the effect that
specific provision for enhanced disclosure will be built into the project arrangements during
project preparation for an agreed upon list of projects to be included in the initial phase of the
pilot. This agreed list consists of 4 projects, including the proposed Third Kecamatan
Development Project.)
b. The specific issues where enhanced disclosure has been agreed upon concem: (i) final audit
reports issued under projects in the pilot will be made publicly available by both the
Borrower and the Bank; (ii) the mid-term report on progress under a project in the pilot will
be made publicly available by the Borrower; and (iii) the procurement process, where the
Borrower has agreed that additional information concerning parts of the procurement process
in projects in the pilot will be made publicly available. The Loan Agreement for this Third
Kecamatan Deveopment Project includes specific undertakings to effectuate these
agreements. These undertakings would eliminate the need for GOI approval to be obtained
prior to the public release of such information.
c. For documents other than those referred to in sub-paragraph b above (and which are currently
not disclosed without Borrower consent), the Bank will continue to consult GOI prior to
disclosure of such documents. GOI may consider moving to a more general practice of
automatic release of such documents after the Government completes its review of enhanced
information disclosure concerning the public provisions of services that it is currently
undertaking. In this regard, the anti-corruption guide for task teams and the anti-corruption
annex (15) based on this guide (together with the covenants on disclosure of audits, mid-termn
review report and procurement documents) are expected to facilitate the adoption of
enhanced disclosure, and more open and transparent practices.
d. Agreement to utilize an IDF grant to support activities for developing GOI policies for
increased information disclosure under all government projects in Indonesia. A GOI
implementation team has been established, and a Bank counterpart team has also been
formed. Start-up activities for administrative arrangements and preparation of terms of
reference of consultants under this grant have been launched.
The experience under this pilot will be reviewed after two years and recommendations for future
developments under the Bank's disclosure policy would be developed.



19
PID
7. Sustainability
One objective of this program is to facilitate the Bank's exit strategy from direct support of the KDP
program so that it can move towards programmatic involvement. This has been delayed because of
several factors described in the Indonesia CAS, including the decentralization turbulence, concern over
Indonesia's fiduciary environment, and the usefulness of having sufficient time to familiarize local
governments and villagers with a sigificantly different way of doing village development.
KDP-2's matcing grant pilot program demonstrated that the project is sufficiently popular with local
governments that they will make a significant contnbution to it from their district budget (DAU).
However, not all districts are equally wealthy. The central govermment recently issued guidelines for
onlending that provide a subsidy to poorer kabupaten. KDP-3 will be adopting this formula for its
matching grant.
The sustainability of subproject investments is already well-documented through ex post reviews, which
have found that 85% of the village infrastructure is in good to very good five years after completion.
Institutional benefits and longer term spillovers from KDP to non KDP activities are harder to measure,
but there are anecdotal signs from supervision and NGO monitoring reports that these are substantial.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Overview -- KDP-3 is only part of the Bank's program for subnational assistance and it both draws on
other projects and will contribute to their design. KDP's microfinance component is being prepared in
parallel with EASRD's upcoming project for sustaining microfinance, which will provide microfinance
loan funds to UPKs that have graduated from the KDP program. Similarly, the KDP team works closely
with the proposed urban and rural projects for local government reform, KGRIP and URGRIP. In all
these cases, project preparation includes cross visits, shared consultants, and joint reviews of design
documents through in-house workshops. KDP-3 collaborates in a similarly close fashion with the
multidisciplinary team preparing the proposed project for conflict areas, which EASES is preparing in
tandem with EASHD, and much of KDP's thinking on health sector activities is informed by the now
active Provincial Health Project strategy for decentralized service delivery.
KDP-3 also tries to build in a broad range of lessons learned from the earlier KDPs and from other
community development projects. KDP is built on five overarching design principles. The first is that the
project design is set up to maximize end user choice. Menus are, with the exception of a small negative
list of items banned by Bank policy, entirely open and communities can and do use the funds for a broad
range of local priorities. The second principle is that of contestation -- villagers can use their funds to
purchase goods and services from whatever private sector, NGO, or moonlighting government agency
can make the best deal.
The third principle is that of direct negotiation. Villages have no assurance that their proposals will be
funded. Funding comes only through negotiation, and there are always more proposals than there are
funds. Land acquisition, project locations, dispute settlement, contract management, and other key
elements in KDP proceed through direct negotiations between primary stakeholders in the inter-village
forums, not through intermediaries such as NGOs, line agencies, or other external bodies. Fourth is that
project information must be actively shared, with the emphasis on "active" dissemination (a principle
honored as much in the breach as in its practice). KDP's final principle is to use existing village
organizations rather than promote the creation of new ones. Research by Pritchett et.al. shows that the
common practice of setting up project-specific user groups is negatively correlated with the likelihood of
poor people receiving benefits; that is, not only do user groups tend to be taken over by local elites, but
they simultaneously undermine non-participants' own organizations' ability to continue providing



20
PID
benefits.
Technical lessons - More technical lessons reflected in the proposed design need to be grouped by their
respective components.Experience from the water supply projects and the village infrastructure program
highlight the need not just for ownership by newly empowered communities, but also for improved
technical training and oversight. Nearly all village technologies can be improved. Even simple steps such
as providing village work teams with new tools has been shown to translate into significantly higher
quality works. Reducing design complexity allows for improved village maintenance, and KDP manuals
are being revised with such an objective in mind. Overall village-level infrastructure assessments have
also proven to be useful and will be reflected in the new project.
Fiduciaries -- KDP-3 strengthens the community based planning process in ways that improve financial
management and reduce corruption. KDP's user-friendly for-mats and transparent procedures facilitate
community oversight. A key lesson now reflected in project documents is that there should never be a
financial transaction with only two parties signing. Second, OSU has produced two key manuals on
operational tools for reducing corruption in Bank-assisted projects, including community development
projects, and their main recommendations are reflected in the new operational manual. More and more
evidence from projects in Indonesia and elsewhere document the importance of sanctions for
anti-corruption programs. KDP-3 will include the results from an ongoing study linked with KDP-1 that
looks at incentive/sanction mixtures in village infrastructure projects.
Local Governance -- The two urban poverty projects in Indonesia and the three Community
Empowerment projects in East Timor provide solid evidence that introducing improved procedures for
the formation and operation of community and subdistrict councils leads to more representative local
government and thus, more efficient and effective resource allocations. CEP in particular highlighted the
value of basing such councils in formal law, and not just project-specific structures. KDP-3 moves away
from KDP's initial sole reliance on improving the planning process to more structured support for norms,
regulations, and formal procedures.
Microfinance - The global literature on microfinance is large. KDP-3 builds on a series of reviews of
microfinance programs in Indonesia and elsewhere, most notably the ADB's P4K project, Bank
Indonesia-GTZ cooperative program for microfinance, and international NGOs such as Grameen Bank,
BRAC, and others. The literature is clear enough on best practices for microfinance, but less clear on
how to reconcile objectives of sustainable microfinance with objectives of community empowerment.
For if the key to successful microfinance is direct borrower-lender relationships and rigorous adherence
to clearly defined rules, the key to community empowerment is almost always multi-stakeholder
involvement and collective decision-making. Previous KDP's have given priority to the empowerment
goal; the current project is operating in a sufficiently changed environment to justify a renewed emphasis
on sustainability. KDP-3 avoids the path of developing a large-scale system of microfinance institutions
but it does provide technical training to its revolving funds to improve their sustainability and to lay the
groundwork for the future Sustaining Microfinance project.
Monitoring -- KDP-3 builds in a robust program for monitoring and evaluation. The core of the internal
monitonng system is the project's Management Information System (MIS). MIS information is
aggregated and used in each of the regional management units, with a master system maintained by the
national oversight team. External monitoring is provided through contracts to independent provincial
NGOs, and a blind contract to the association of independent journalists (AJI). The contract provides
them with operational expenses so they can visit and report on KDP project sites in regional and national
newspapers. They do not provide any prior information to the project. Two copies of their published



21
PID
articles are sent to Home Affairs, and an annual review summarizes their findings.The journalists provide
a route by which the independent NGO monitors and other civil society groups can report on KDP
activities.
Quantitative evaluations include a 4,600 household panel survey and a 55,000 household expenditure
questionnaire appended to Sussenas. KDP's design draws on models developed for Cambodia's Seila
program, the Jogja Uplands Watersheds Project, and the earlier KDPs. More qualitative methods, in
particular community-based monitoring, draw on a series of poverty assessments conducted across Africa
in the 1990s, monitoring using photo documentation that has been developed for the JSDF widows in
conflict areas project, and community monitoring and evaluation techniques developed by the Aceh NGO
forum in KDP-1.
KDP's monitoring and evaluation system suffers from several weaknesses that must be fixed and will be
reviewed during appraisal. The three top problems are:
*    field entries for the MIS are often delayed and the overall MIS system is usually 2-3 months
out of date;
*    national responses to field reports is too slow and is often inappropiate;
*    the monitoring system is suffering from document proliferation, making it unwieldy.
Some actions have been taken to remedy these problems but more need to happen before project start-up.
Priority actions which will be appraised in the field include the following:
*    assess the effectiveness of the decentralized MIS;
*    improve the skills level of the data entry team;
*    revise the complaints handling response protocols; and
*    simplify the formats.
Evaluation reports have been less problematic although their procurement takes too long. Nevertheless,
several have suffered from quality problems, particularly those involving statistical interpretation of
poverty impacts from KDP programs. KDP-3 addresses this concern by adding concentrated inputs of
international technical assistance to support the statistical studies and write-ups. KDP-3 will also
commission a study to evaluate the impact of the local government reforms introduced through the
program.
A summary of KDP's monitoring system is provided below, in Table 3.1
Table 3.1: Internal Monitoring for the Kecamatan Development Pro ram
No.            Activity          Objective                    Jmplementing                   Outputs
Agencies/Actors
I     Monitoring by consultants/MIS  To monitor and regularly report  Consultants at the national,  Monthly reports, databasc,
upon KDP progrcss             provincial, district and kccamatan  problems solved
levels
2     Monitoring by Govt Officials  To monitor and regularly report  Govt officials at the   Reports and problems so
upon KDP progress,           national, provincial and       Ived
trouble-shooting              district level, DPRD, etc
3     Community Monitonng        To monitor projects within their  Community members         Activities monitorcd by
communities                                                the community
4     Casc Studics               To document lessons Icamed    2 full-timc KDP staff plus    6-8 casc studics per year
and best practices of KDP    occasional consultants
5     Complaints Resolution Process  To document and resolve field  6 full-time KDP staff in  Resolvcd cascs
problcms                      Handling Complaints           Database of complaints
Unit



22
PID
6      Financial Supervision and    To improve the financial skills  5 full-time staff with          Training to UPKs and
Training                      of UPKs and economic loan       accounting backgrounds           economic groups Field
groups and to check             in the Financial                 finances checked and
financial/admin records at the  Supervision and Training         audited
kecamatan and villagc lcvels.   Unit



23
PID
Table 3.2: KDP's External Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO Province-Based Monitonng To monitor and provide an    40 provincial NGOs             Monthly reports
ndepcndcnt source of qualitative
nformation on KDP
Joumalist monitonng and     To providc independent monitoring  18 provincial journalists, LP3ES!AJI Newspaper articles, radio reports
reporting                   and reporting on KDP by local
oumalists
World Bank Supervision Missions To supervise KDP progress and  World Bank, PMD, BAPPENAS,  Aide-Memoirc (usually twice a year)
achievements                  NMC, LSMs
Financial Audits           To audit KDP finances          BPKP                           Audit findings and reports
Impact Evaluation           a) To evaluate KDP's impact on  Extemal consultant team to use panel Baseline survey of 4500 HHs and
ommunity organization and     baselinc data                  ommunity leaders
erccptions; (b) to asscss the                               Economic feasibility asscssment
feasibility of measunng KDP impact
n poverty, incomes, and living
standards
Technical Infrastructure Study  o evaluate KDP infrastructure  Extemal consultant team (5 persons) Study evaluating the quality of KDP
rojccts and recommend         including one expatnate       infrastructure projccts
improvcments
Economic Loan Study        To evaluate KDP economic loan  Extemal consultant team (4 persons) Study evaluating the quality of KDP
ctivities and recommend      including onc expatriate        conomic loan activities
improvements
Institutional Improvements   o measure and evaluate the   Extcrnal evaluation tcam together with Analysis of the effectivcncss of KDPs
Evaluation                 individual and institutional changes  BPDs. DPRDs etc        capacity building measures
resulting from perdas and training
Poverty impact study         o evaluate the medium tcrm impacts BPS (National Statistics Board)
of KDP on povcrty
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : +No significant environmental issues are anticipated. KDP investments are very small,
and under the Indonesia Environmental Assessment rules, they all fall below the minimum size required
for a formal environmental assessment. KDP's negative list consists primarily of activities excluded by
Bank environmental policies, and these have been uniformly respected in the completed subprojects.
KDP site selection also in principle rules out villages within demarcated protected areas (in practice bad
data and fuzzy boundaries often leads to mistakes). KDP3s negative list has been expanded to encompass
lessons from experience and from other conmmunity development operations.
KDP's operational manuals have been reviewed by a range of environmental and environmental
engineering specialists and they meet all WB standards. However, experience under KDP I showed two
kinds of environmental risk that can affect community projects. First, commnunities living in or near
protected habitats will use natural resources from these areas regardless of formal regulations unless
suitable sanctions are imposed. Thus, some communities in South Sulawesi mined coral for their
roadbeds. In other areas, communities have built roads that verge into protected forests. The second
environmental risk is poor placement of water supply sources, which can lead to contaminated water
supplies. The number of cases where this has occurred is small, but review of their cases shows that they
happen when there are systemic failures in the project's system of engineering oversight, reporting, and
follow-up.
In both types of environmental malfeasance, the proposed mitigation and prevention methods are proper
training and monitoring of the supervising field engineers. In the cases noted above, the supervising
engineers were either disciplined or dismissed. PMD, the project's executing agency, has recently
activated a grant to hire an intemational environmental specialist to improve the environmental training
and oversight program. Environmental review will assess whether additional sanctions are recommended
for village projects that violate the guidelines. Bank appraisal will assess whether the upgraded KDP-2
engineering training and management program sufficiently reflects lessons leamed about environmental



24
PID
management.
10. List of factual technical documents:
A. Project Implementation Plan
TOR for microfinance program
Timetables
Financial Management, Procurement, and Disbursement review
Eligible list of kecamatans
Procurement plan
Management assignment
B. Bank Staff Assessments
KDP supervision mission reports
QAG5 review of supervision
QAG quality at entry revierw
C. Other
Overview of KDP3 (Bappenas)
KDP impact review on local govemance (Bappenas)
KDP microfinance review
KDP3 microfinance preparation report (Holloh)
KDP3 village and intervillage review (Evers)
KDP- I IRR/economic review (Dent)
KDP poverty targeting review (Molyneaux)
KDP impact evaluation (Univ. Indonesia)
KDP corruption study (Woodhouse)
Monthly NGO reports on KDP implementation (in Indonesian)
AJI review of joumalists participation in KDP (in Indonesian)
KDP 1 Completion Report (PMD)
*Including electronic files
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Scott E. Guggenheim
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 62-21-529-93000; 5781+9+391-1908/9 KDP Office
Fax: 62-21-5299-3111
12. For information on other project related documents contact:



25
PID
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



