                      Indonesia: Third Kecamatan Development Project
                              (Loan No. 4710 and Credit No. 3806)
                              Proposed Amendment to the Project
                             Prior to Signing of the Legal Agreements


1      This memorandum seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend the Loan
and Credit Agreements for the Third Kecamatan Development Project (KDP3). The proposed
amendment would reduce the size of the Loan/Credit package from US$249.8          million to
US$91 .O million.
                                        I      Background
                                         l




2      The Third Kecamatan Development Project was approved by the Board on June 17,
2b03. The project consisted of a US$249.8     million loan, made up of an IDA credit of
SDR32.16 (approximately US$45.5       million) and IBRD Loan of US$204.3     million.

3      KDP3    is the third phase of a national poverty reduction program built around community
development. Performance of the program has been very good. Project disbursements for the
first KDP were significantly ahead of schedule and all but one performance indicator were met
or exceeded. The second KDP is currently under implementation and performance continues to
be strong. KDP3   expands the project's coverage and adds two extra years of support to
subdistricts covered under KDPl and KDP2.

                          II0    Justification for the Proposed Changes

4      Indonesia's Ministry of Fin.ance has n.ow requested that the Bank reduce the size of
the Loan/Credit package to US$91 .O million. The request is triggered by their overall debt
management strategy, and because the national decentraliz ,ation law package is currently
undergoing internal review.

5       Debt Management -In the aftermath of the crisis, Indonesia recapitalized the banking
system, adding some 50 percent of GDP to government debt. In addition, the sharp exchange
rate depreciation increased the burden of foreign debt. Currently, debt service absorbs some
35 percent of government revenues. Furthermore, the disbursement on existing commitments
went down significantly (although it has bounced up more recently). All of this made the
Government more aware of the cost of debt in general, and that of commitment fees on
undisbursed balances in particular. Therefore, by phasing the previously proposed KDP3 over
two projects, the Government hopes to reduce the cost of borrowing by reducing the average
balance of commitments outstanding.

6.      Changes to the national decentralization strategy - KDP3 was prepared and negotiated       .
shortly after the national government had launched its large-scale decentralization program.
This program transferred nearly 40% of the national development budget to the country's
approximately 430 districts, including the responsibility for revising the regulations covering
village and subdistrict government.

7       These laws are currently under revision. Indonesia's national government would now like
to strengthen the provinces, which were bypassed during the initial round of decentralization.
Draft revisions prepared by the Ministry of Home Affairs restore authority to provincial
governments. If the revised rules are accepted, then responsibility for implementing several of
the measures necessary for KDP3 will shift from the district to the province.

                         III     Impact of the Amendment to the Project
                            l




8.         KDP has been one of the Bank's and Government's most successful povertv focused
programs in Indonesia. Government commitment to the program remains strong. KDP3 was
intended from the beginning to be part of KDP's     transition from a largely crisis focused national
project to a routine approach for community development that would fit into the strengthened
district level planning structure created by the decentralization program. The proposed revisions
are, therefore, consistent with the program's overall strategy for national and local ownership.

9.      KDP is built on a modular structure that can readily expand or contact its scope of
coverage without requiring changes to the project's design. The amendment will not result in
any changes to the original objectives of the project as approved by the Board or to any of the
specific implementation arrangements or safeguard provisions. The revised loan documents
include adjusted performance indicators. They are attached to this note as Annex 1.

