                                                Documentof
                                             The WorldBank



                                                                                 ReportNo: 25538-IND




                                         FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                    PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ONA

                                             PROPOSEDLOAN

                                 INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$204.3MILLION

                                         AND PROPOSEDCREDIT

                                           INTHEAMOUNT OF

                                             SDR32.1MILLION
                                     (US$45.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OFINDONESIA

                                                   FORA

                             THIRD KECAMATANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                 June 2,2003




Environment and SocialDevelopment Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




/Thisdocument has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipientsonly in the performanceof
ltheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 15,2003)
                          Currency Unit = Rupiah
                              Rps8,500 = US$1
                                US$lOO = Rps. 850,000.00

                                    FISCALYEAR
             Government o f Indonesia -- January 1 December 31.
                                                      -

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
AJI         Association of IndependentJoumalists
APL         Adaptable ProgramLending
BAPPENAS    NationalPlanning Agency
BI          Bank Indonesia
BPDs        Village RepresentativeCouncils
BPKP        Central Audit Bureau
BPR         Bank Perkreditan Rakyat
BPS         Central Bureau of Statistics
BRI         Bank Rakyat IndonesiaAndonesiaPeople's Bank
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDD         Community Driven Development
CEP         Community Empowerment
CPPR        Country ProcurementPolicy Report
CQ          Consultants' Qualifications
DGB         Director Generalof Budget
DPRD        Provincial and District Parliament
EASES       East Asia Environment and Social Development Sector Unit
EASHD       East Asia HumanDevelopment Sector Unit
Eh4P        Environment ManagementPlan
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAD         Inter-villageForums
GO1         Government of Indonesia
GTZ         German Technical Cooperation Agency
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
I D A       International Development Association
IDT         Project for LeftBehind Villages
I-PRSP      Indonesia-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IRR         Intemal Rate of Return
JSDF        Japanese Social Development Fund
KDP         KecamatanDevelopment Project
KGRIP       Kabupaten GovernanceReformInitiatives Project
LKM         Lembaga KeuanganMikro (microfinancial institution)
LKMD        Village Council (Lembaga KetahanMasyarakat Desa)
LLI         LocalLevel Institution
LP3ES       Institution for Social andEconomic Research,Education and Information
LSM         Lembaga SwadayaMasyarakat (NGO)
MoF         Ministry of Finance
MoHA        Ministry of Home Affairs
NBF         Not Bank Financed
NGO         Non-Government Organization
NMC         National ManagementConsultants

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                              ~~




      NPV                Net Present Value
      NTT                EastNusaTenggara
      OCSPR               OperationsCore Services andProcurementPolicyDepartment
      PERDA               Local Government
      PjOK                Local Project Manager
      PMD                 Departmentof Community Development(Pembangunan MasyerakatDesa)
      QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
      SA                  SpecialAccount
      SFB                 Selectionunder aFixedBudget
      SWOT                StrengthWeakness Opportunity Threats
      T A                 Technical Assistance
      UPK                 Financial ManagementUnit
      WASPOLA             Water Supply and SanitationPolicy Formulationand ActionProject
      WSSLIC-2            Water Supply and SanitationProject for Low IncomeCommunities

                                     Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                         Country ManagerDirector:        Andrew D.Steer
                          Sector ManagerDirector:        Maria Teresa Serra
                   Task TeamLeader/Task Manager:         Scott Guggenheim




This document has a restricteddistributionandmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                            INDONESIA
                        THIRD KECAMATAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project developmentobjective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                         2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      3
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         8
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  15

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                 17
   2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                       24
   3. Benefits and target population                                                     25
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      25

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                           26
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        28
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                 29
   4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   32
   5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        33

E.Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           33
   2. Financial                                                                          33
   3. Technical                                                                          34
   4. Institutional                                                                      35
   5. Environmental                                                                      38
   6. Social                                                                             39

F.Sustainability and Risks

  1. Sustainability                                                                    43
  2. Critical risks                                                                    43
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    44


G. MainLoan Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           44
  2. Other                                                                             45

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                         46

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                           46



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        47
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                   51
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                        55
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         56
Annex 5: FinancialSummary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or FinancialSummary    59
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  60
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements                           67
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   76
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                  77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          80
Annex 11: Anti-Corruption Strategy                                                     82
Annex 12: Environment Screening Criteria                                               89
Annex 13: Guidelines for Resettlement, Land and Asset Acquisition                      96
Annex 14: Indigenous Peoples SpecialProgramfor Papua                                   99




MAP(S)
Indonesia

                                                 INDONESIA
                                     ThirdKecamatan Development Project
                                     Project Appraisal Document
                                         East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                   EASES

Date: May 5,2003                                       Team Leader: Scott E.Guggenheim
Sector Managermirector: Maria Teresa Serra             Sector(s): Sub-national government administration (25%),
Country Managermirector: Andrew D.Steer                Water supply (20%), Irrigation and drainage (20%),
Project ID: PO79156                                    Roads and highways (20%), Primary education (15%)
Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SL)       Themds): Decentralization (P), Rural policies and
                                                       institutions (P), Civic engagement, participation and
                                                       community driven development (P), Social risk coping (P),
                                                       Rural services and infrastructure (S)
  Project Financing Data
  [XI Loan       [XI Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee        [ ] Other:
  For Loans/Credits/Others:
  Loan Currency: United StatesDollar
  Amount (US$m): US$249.8
  Borrower Rationalefor Choiceof LoanTerms Availableon File:(XI Yes
  ProposedTerms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
  Grace period (years): 5                             Years to maturity: 20
  Commitmentfee: 0.75%                                Frontend fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                      Paymentfor FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds

  ProposedTerms (IDA): Standard Credit
  Grace period (years): 10                             Years to maturity:35
  Commitmentfee: 0.00-0.50%                            Service charge: 0.75%


m m                                                                   194.70              9.60           204.30
D A                                                                     41.40             4.10            45.50
Total:                                                                341.60             20.70           362.30
-.Borrower: REPUBLIC OFINDONESIA
  Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF HOMEAFFAIRS
  Address: PMD, K1 19; J1PasarMingguRaya, Jakarta, Indonesia
  Contact Person: Mr.Bit0 Wikantosa
  Tel: (62-21) 7917 1684            Fax: (62-21) 7919 6118                Email:
  Estimated Disbursements( Bank FY/US$m):




  Project implementationperiod: 5 years
  Expectedeffectivenessdate: 09/01/2003   Expectedclosing date: 12/31/2008

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (seeAnnex 1)
KDP-3 has overall development objectives of reducing poverty and improving local-level
governance inrural Indonesia. It i s part of a long-termvillage level governance program that
began with the first Kecamatan Project in 1998.

Specific development objectives for KDP-3 include: (i)   institutionalizing participatory processes
inlocalgovernment; (ii) cost effective provisionofbasic social andeconomic infrastructure;
                          the
(iii)strengthening the capacity of the micro-finance institutions developed under KDP-1and
KDP-2 to manage and monitor funds sustainably.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
a.      Performance benchmarks cover process, output and outcome indicators. Outcome
indicators refer primarily to poverty and governancemeasurements.They necessarily involve a
lag time. KDP-3 therefore includes outcome measurementsbasedon KDPl and 2 rather than the
current project. However, becausethe core program follows the same model for all three
projects, outcome measurementsfrom the earlier projects should inform evaluation of the current
one. The primary measurementsthat will be used to measureproject outcomes are:

        i. Householdexpenditureratesamongthepoor,measuredagainstcontrols;
        ii.Reductionsindevelopment-relatedcorruption,measuredbyengineeringassessments
            of project-built infrastructure compared with controls.
        iii.Amountsandbenefitstreamsfromproject-providedinfrastructure,measuredby
            engineering and economic surveys; and
        iv. Poor people's access to microfinance, measuredthrough before and after surveys.

b. Performance benchmarks duringthe project period will reflect the project's overall objectives
of improving the local level institutional framework for poverty reduction. They will cover five
main variables:

        i. Increasesinsocialinclusion,measuredbyvulnerableandpoorgroup'sparticipationin
            KDP decision-making and management;
        ii.Changestotheresponsivenessandqualityoflocalgovernance,measuredby
            perception surveys and efficiency gains inpublic investment;
        iii.SustainabilityoftheKDPapproach,measuredbylocalgovernmentadoptionofthe
            program through the matching grant program option
        iv. Economic outputs from community investments, measuredby rates of return;
        v. Sustainability of village revolvingfunds, measuredthrough their internal information
            system;

    Additional indicators will measure the performance of individual components and activities.




                                                 - 2 -

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-1 [IDA R2001-31              Date of latest CAS discussion: September 3, 2002-CASPR

         Bank assistance strategies for Indonesia in recent years have been defined largely by the nature
of the country's social, economic, andpolitical transition. From 1998 to 2000, Bank concerns focused
overwhelmingly on the East Asia economic crisis and the resulting increase inpoverty. Indonesia's
recovery from the crisis has been slow. However, many of the worst effects of the crisis have subsided.
The 2001-2003 country assistance strategy accordingly shifted away from crisis response and towards a
more institutionallyfocused strategy that could help the country repair institutions damaged by the fall of
the New Order government. Overall Bank lending was significantly reduced, non-performing projects
were restructured or cancelled, and both analytical and operational work concentrated on findingways to
support Indonesiatransition into a democratic, decentralizeddevelopment environment.

         The Banks response to this constantly changing environment reflects the changingpatterns of
opportunity and constraint. The "bigpicture" strategy i s to promote a reformstrategy that will lead to
responsive and effective institutions for local govemance, and the linchpin of that strategy i s to promote
end-user accountabilities and participation inthe institutions of local government. The KDP program of
course does not work alone or in isolation from other projects, and the overall description below of what
KDPis tryingto accomplish shouldbe seen as emblematic of ageneration of Indonesiacommunity
development programs supported by a range of sectors.The FY03 Indonesia lending program i s strongly
consistent with the CAS Progress Report. The concurrent resolution of issues that had ledto a smaller
programinFY02 than expected at the time of the CAS PR, including on-lending guidelines and the
Government's decision to go ahead with borrowing for the power sector, has resulted in a larger program
inFY03. All the FY03 five activities inthe CAS Progress Report were successfully negotiated, three
with expanded scope or geographic focus. Approval of the five N O 3 loans would result in average
annual lending over CAS years FY01-03 of $460million, just 15% higher than the basecaseCAS
expectation. Moreover, the Governmenti s on the verge of meeting the highcase triggers, which lends
further support to the upwardlending trend.

         The KDPprogram ties in with two of the three main CAS goals: improving govemance and
reducing poverty. But KDP also fit in with the overall CAS strategy of maintaining a low profile while
Indonesia sorted its way through the New Order legacy and resulting institutional turmoil. The Banks
CPAR and other analytical works on governance documented the severe problems posedby endemic
corruption in public sector projects, while several of the Banks traditional biglending sectors reduced
their activities because of the uncertain environment into which lending would take place. Because KDP
operated "below the radar screen" and yet still functioned as a national project, the programmovedto a
prominent position within the Banks assistance strategy.

         KDPis part of the Banks support to Indonesia's massive decentralizationprogram. The Banks
subnational strategy rests on four activities. First,policy work monitors and improves the subnational
administrative and regulatory environments. Second, programmatic projects such as KDP and the soon to
be appraised district level govemance projects also provide cross-sectoral "platforms" for improving
government services and promoting basic principles of good govemance. Third, sectoral projects such as
the provincial health project concentrate on developing new types of service delivery supply for activities
which are technically too complex for full decentralization or where there will be large economies of
scale but which nevertheless must respond to decentralized demand. Finally, not all government
institutions have decentralized, and a separate set of activities must concentrate on national institutions
that operate at the local level (Le. the justice sector i s a commonly cited example).




                                                      - 3 -

         KDPcontributes to this overall strategy primarily through the second activity, developing more
efficient governance platfonns, even though it contains elements of all four initiatives. As will be
discussed below, Indonesia's framework decentralizationlaws (Laws 22 and 25) concentrated on fiscal
decentralizationto the districts, but while they provided an opportunity to consolidate and improve
village and subdistrict government, they lacked the specificity needed to buildnotjust sound local
administrations and improved procedures for popular participation in development decision-malung. The
Ministry of Home Affairs i s charged with providing the administrative guidelines still needed to
implement decentralization. KDP has emerged as one of the government's primary tools for filling in
these gaps.

         Brief Descriptionof KDP-- KDP i s a program to support community planning. Basedon their
locationand population, the project provides one of three fixed block grant amounts to subdistricts
(kecamatans). Villagers then decide to use these funds for infrastructure, social, or economic activities.
Each kecamatan receives the funds for three years. The distribution of funds through the kecamatan i s by
the kecamatan council, which consists of members appointedby government, plus additional broadly
respected persons (such as religious and traditional leaders, teachers, etc), and three additional members
(one man and two woman) selected from each participating village. The kecamatan also creates a
three-person unit, called an FinancialManagement Unit(UPK) ,to manage KDPfunds and to oversee
any larger procurement.

         The KDP project cycle goes through various stages: informationdissemination, planning,
proposal preparation, verification, funding decisions, implementation, and follow-up. The project cycle
normally takes 12-14months to complete, although there i s substantial variation across the different
provinces. Later stages of the project include a "village visioning" exercise where villages assess their
overall infrastructure needs and discuss them in a group meeting with localgovernment technical
agencies to agree onjoint programming options (see Figure 1).




                                                     - 4 -

                                       IFigure 1:KDP-3ACTIVITY CYCLE
                                               ProgramPreparations              I


                                                           agree onpartielpatlngvillages(basedonpast




         Each village can submit a maximumof two proposals to the kecamatan forum, one of which must
come from women's groups. Village proposals receive various levels of technical review. At the
kecamatan level, verification teams normally include community leaders, the kecamatan technical
facilitator, and appropriate technical staff recommended by the district engineer. Verification also
reviews criteria such as the economic soundness of proposals, whether they benefit significant numbers
of the poor, are their maintenance or repayment plans, and whether people genuinely participated.
Verification reports are presented to the kecamatan forum, which must then select through consensus
which proposals get funded. There i s no further review.

         The headof the UPK, the Kecamatan facilitator, and all of the village council heads then open a
joint bank account at a private bank. Once proposals have been endorsed by the government's kecamatan
project manager, they are sent to the provincialtreasury, which orders a transfer to a collective account
opened in the district branch of a chartered bank (usually BEUor BNI) .Payments to the kecamatan are
made in40%-40%-20% installments. Disbursements to the individual subprojects are made against
certifiedrequests for expenditure untileach installment has been used up. The UPKs, village councils
and implementation teams must make a public report to the community after each installment has been
utilized. that last 20% installment is released only after a completion report has been signed by the
district engineer.

         Once it has been decided which projects should be funded, village technical assistance i s




                                                     - 5 -

contracted. A community implementation team of five people i s elected neach village to oversee works.
Periodic village meetings are held to report on the works, to review the books, and for public presentation
of at least three quotations for any goods that must be purchased. Different training programs are held
across the KDPcycle, from programs inbook-keeping and project management which are heldin every
village, to more specialized programs inconflict management, micro-finance, or community radio, which
are only provided to some provinces.




    I. Inputs                                   LoanAgreement Year 3 Actualfor Year 3
    Numberof project kecamatans                          725                      986
    Numberof villages with subprojects                   6,000                  15,000
    Grants and subloansdisbursed                    Rps. 450 billion      Rps. 1,600billion
    11.  outputs

1   Numberof subproject agreements                      >6,000                  15,000
    Percentageof work aereed that is comdeted            >80%                     95%
    Percentageof sites (kecamatans) visitedby            >lo%                    100%
    suDervision staff
I   IIT.  Imnacts                             I                          I                   I
    Benefitsireturns                                     >20%                     60%
    Numberof beneficiaries                             3 million            Est.35 million
    Subloansrepaid, by schedule                          >80%                     45%
    Percentageof infrastructuresubprojectswith           >50%                     86%
    O&M committees
    Audits (kecamatansample)                             2.5%                     30%
    Monitoring byjournalists, publishedstoriesI            20                Approx. 800




KDPsits within the Ministry of HomeAffairs. Government coordination teams representing various
ministries also assist with KDP. The coordination teami s chaired by the Ministry of Planning, Bappenas.
At the province anddistrict levelthe coordination teamis also chairedby the planningboard, but
subnationally these are part of Home Affairs. KDP i s supported by nearly 3,000 consultants, who work at
the national, provincial, district, and kecamatan level. Villages also propose their own facilitators tojoin
the project. Each village has a man and a woman facilitator, Under KDP-2, this number was increased to
three villagers to complement the social facilitators with a technical specialist. More than 40,000
villagers received social and technical training in KDPs first three years of operation (see Figure 2).




                                                    - 6 -

                                   Figure 2: The KDPManagement System
                               (Lines show mainroutes for two-way communicationandcoordination)




                                            (*CoordinntionTeam                  Advisor Team(Tim-4)
                                              * National KDPSecretariat       * ManaeementConsultants



                                                                                         I
                                               * CoordinntianTeam             * ManagementConsultants
                                               * ProvinceKDPSecretariat         (RegionalUnit)




                                              9 CoordinationTeam                ManagementConsultants
                          1 FVI'L             * DistrictKDP Secretariat         (KM Kah)




                                                                              * KecamatanFacilitators
                          ItVLI.              * PjOWPjAK                        (FK)
                                                         I                    -          I
                                                                                Village Facilitators(FD)
                                              * LKMD/BPD




Results from KDP are highly satisfactory overall. Outputs from K D P s first three years included 19,000
kms. of roads and 3,500 kmsbuilt or upgraded, 2,800 clean water supplies built,and5,200 irrigation
systems built or repaired. Nevertheless, over time, weaknesseshave appeared inthe overall program
strategy, some due to inadequate design, others due to the constantly revised role that KDP plays within
World Bank assistance. Three are particularly important for the current proposal:

         i.Thefreedomfrommuchofthepublicadministration'sstandardrulesandproceduresthat
            allowedKDP to quickly and effectively reach a broad swath of communities duringthe crisis
            divorced it from much of the public sector management strategy. With the renewed interest
            insubnational poverty strategies, KDPhas the potential to bringparticipatory planning
            procedures back into mainstreampublic administration;

        11. KDPinitially gave priority to villager choice and the need for economic transfers to the poor
            most hit by the crisis over the sustainability of microfinance institutions. Improvements to
            Indonesia's overall microfinance environment provide an opportunity to use the revolving
            funds established through KDP to support a larger-scale microfinance architecture; and
       ...
       111. KDPbegan life as a fast-off-the-mark activity whose purpose was to support from the bottom
            of the country level democratization that was taking hold at the top. But initial plans didnot
            foresee the extent to which the transition would be a long one, nor how deeply rooted many
            New Order institutionalstructures would tum out to be. KDPs initial short time horizoni s




                                                              - 7 -

             too brief for the reforms it introduces to be normalized within local government's
             development management.


2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy:
A multi-sectoralproject such as KDPmustconfront a broadrange of sector specific issues. Appraisal
reports for KDPl and KDP2 addressed sectoral issues with respect to community development, technical
capacity, and fiduciary concerns. KDP-3 will specifically address two important institutional dimension
within the KDPprogram: giving village empowerment a more solid legal and administrative foundation,
and providing a rationalized management framework for community microfinance.

I. CommunityEmpowermentandLocalGovernance
A. The Governance Divide inRuralIndonesia. The Local Level Institution (LLI)studies carried out
by the NationalPlanning Agency (BAPPENAS), Ministry of Home Affair (MoHA) and the World Bank
identified a gap in local governance that exists in the large majority of Indonesianrural villages. This gap
usually translates into a lack of trust, apathy and a low-quality dialogue about development. Externally
induced development models that do not recognize the core problem of the local governance divide limit
their own likelihoodof success. Evidence of this root problemcan be seen in the universally reported
problemof poor public infrastructure construction standards and poorer maintenance in Indonesian
villages, clear signs of little local ownership. As a result, social and economic resources are not as well
used as they could be, particularly with respect to rural poverty reduction. Some of the most important
reasons for this gap are:
         >    `Villages' are not `communities '. Despite formal definitions and descriptions, villages are
             collections of often highly independent neighborhoods, hamlets and sub-villages, sometimes
             far apart, with their own economic and social structures. Voluntary cooperation among these
             sub-unitsis by no means the standard and `village government' is often a distant, abstract
             notion.

         9 Information does notflow freely. Indonesia's New Order government concentrated accessto
             development information within the executive branch. Internal government checks and
             balances were weakened or disappeared. Civil society organizations and media that could
             provide alternative channels of informationflow were banned from entering villages. Even
             private banks were usually required to obtain counter-signatures from village heads before
             they could advance loans. Furthermore, the executive also became the main channel for
             redress. As a result, informationflows upwards also withered away.

         >   Local government lacks downward accountability. Village and subdistrict heads, when not
             directly appointed by the district head, couldbe replacedby himat will. All reporting was
             from the local government upwards, never to local constituents. With no institutional
             mechanisms to provide checks and balances between local leadership and constituencies,
             communities as well as leaders came to view local government as the extension of the central
             government into the village, not as their own mechanismfor relayinglocal concerns to
             higher levels of government.

         9 Villages do not control their own developmentfunds. Governmentprojects for communities
              are typically decided in district capitals, with little or no planning informationgiven to the
              villagers themselves. A tabulation of a sample of 45 village planning requests found that only
              3 percent of village requests were met by government projects. The small public funds given
             for village development were nearly entirely earmarked for government officers. Regulations



                                                       - 8 -

            passedin the 1990swent so far as to prohibit villagers from supervising or maintaining
            works constructed through public funds, and functions which insteadwere done through
            contractors.

         >  Community attitudes do not change quickly. After forty years of tight security and demands
            for unquestioned loyalty and obedience, villagers are still uncertain how to oppose
            corruption and poor leadership. There i s usually a preference to reduce contact with formal
            leaders to a minimum.

         >  Local government attitude towards village-government relationships have not signijiicantly
            changed. Under 'decentralization', villages still do not have a direct voice in district-level
            development planning. Instead, villagers are expected to implement regulations and projects
            decided elsewhere.

Nevertheless, there are a number of encouraging signs that opportunities exist to change this situation.
Go1itself launchedthe current generation of community development programs through a flawedbut
innovative "Project for Left BehindVillages (IDT)," which for the first time, provided direct transfers to
village governments. Both of the LLIstudies and the first KDP argued that there are operational ways to
return control of low level decision making to village users without requiringwholesale changes to the
Indonesianadministrative system. The key to this first round lay in decentralizing community funds to
preexistingrepresentative decision-makmgbodies, andby adopting an active program to disseminate
project financial information. Inmost cases, makinglocal governance bodies more representative,
however, required some additional tinkering with operational rules to ensure more broad-based
representation and participation in decision meetings. Other sectors pursuingthe route of direct transfers
to user groups, most notably irrigation and school committees, also found large increases in the quality of
construction and the satisfaction of communities.

Changes to local government. The second LLIstudy was completed in2001. One of its most interesting
findings was that leadership hadundergone a significant change innearly half of the villages studied.
Village heads and the newly formed Village Representative Councils (BPDs) didnot come from the
"dynastic" families that had controlled village politics under local administrations, and a large majority
of respondents reported that the new leadership was less corrupt and more responsive to the needs of the
villagers. However, the study also showed that most of these new leaders lacked the necessary skills and,
even more importantly, didnot have effective ties to the district administration or parliament. Both sets
of findings have since been confirmed by reviews carried out by the FordFoundation and the Partnership
for Local Governance. They form the basis for the village governance proposals that will be supported
through the proposedproject.

B. Decentralization andvillage empowerment. Indonesia's decentralizationprogramhasbeen
extensively reviewed in a number of Bank reports. Two basic laws, Law 22/1999 on regional autonomy
and Law 25/1999 on financial balance, radically transformed the character of Indonesianpublic
administration. The two laws ensured that district governments will eventually control over 40 percent
of total government spending. Over 100implementing instructions, regulations, and guidelines were
prepared to accompany the new laws, but most of these hadnot been adequately discussed in the newly
empoweredparliament and relatively few have been issued. As a result, the administrative "state of
play", while clearly favoringdecentralization, remains very much in flux, with struggles back and forth
over responsibilities, reporting requirements, dispute resolution mechanisms and the like. Development
projects have also faced a broadrange of implementationproblems because of this lack of institutional
clarity, and one purpose of the proposed KDP-3 i s to help local governments implement Law 22/1999 in



                                                     - 9 -

operational ways.

With administrations that lackboth governance experience and clear assignments of responsibilities,
political struggles within the different branches of district governments have also ledto institutional
turmoil over the powers newly released by the national government, and the emergence of local private
interests seeking to capture public decision-making. Nevertheless, inmany areas decentralization has
movedforward well, and local governments have started to work out their own modus vivendi between
their different branches.

Village relations to districts. One element of Law 22 that has received much less attention was the
broadening of village autonomy. Villages can now own assets, borrow money (although this authority i s
now on hold), establish village-owned businesses, and, incertain cases, reject government action in their
village, although the language of the law remains somewhat vague on these issues.

ButLaw 22 also reinforcedthe dependenceof villages on district government decisions. The dominant
position of district government was more or less formalized by one of the implementing regulations of
Law 22, the "General Guidelines on Regulating Villages", a document that leaves most of the details to
the district government. Some major points of this regulation include:

         > The decree assigns legislative authority to localgovernments to draw up 13regulations on
              such vital issues as village head elections, the `formation' of the BPDs, and the status of
              village regulations inrelation to `public interest' (allowing the district to nullify almost any
              village regulation), and inter-village cooperation.

          > The decree undermines       its own authority by confirming that it i s only a `guideline' (
             pedoman),for local governments to follow when drawingup district regulations (perduIs).
              Add to this the stipulation that perdu's are no longer subject to `central' approval (local
              governments only needto submit a copy within 15 days), and the potential for rigidand
              unjustregulation of village powers is clear.

          > The districts are even given authority to regulate traditional institutions andthe roleof local
              custom, elements of village life that should per definition remain outside formal rules. Local
              government can now capture elements that are `useful' for their purposes and eliminate
              aspects that are troublesome to them.

 Villages still have little to say about developmentplanning policies. As inthe pre-1999 days, as far as
villages are concerned, development planning and policies are still top-down. Villages do not have a
formally defined mechanismto participate indistrict decision making. At district-level planning
meetings, village representatives are not present. At best they are still representedby the subdistrict head
(camat), although he has now formally become a member of the bupati's staff and i s not selected from
below.

 Village administrations lack resources.In 1996 every Indonesian village received Rp 6.5 million in
development funds. In 1999 this was around Rp 10million. In 2001, after decentralization, amounts vary
sharply. LLIreports showed that some Central Java villages receivedRp 30 million, while surveys in
North Sumatra, East Nusa Tenggara (NTT), and Lampungdistricts found many districts where villages
receivedno funds at all.

B y way of summary, then, this review of local governance under decentralization illustrates the complex
nature of Indonesia's transition even at the level of village development. The administrative changes


                                                      - 10-

brought inby decentralization open the door to reform, but at the same time they increase the
opportunities for districts to install a more direct control over village institutions than was ever possible
inthe past. Comparative experience with decentralizationelsewhere suggests that an additional variable
-- the extension of politicalparties into localpolitics -- is likely to exacerbate this already complex
equation.

C. Administrative actions to promote village empowerment. KDP's overall strategy for village
empowerment rests on three legs, which are reflected to varying degrees in each of the three projects.
KDP-1concentrated primarily on developingparticipatory processesfor development planning,
management, and monitoring. KDP-2 concentrates on giving villagers the technical tools to manage
public funds: infrastructure assessments and technical training, higher quality book-keeping and
procurement, linkages to technical and private sector service providers, etc. The proposed JSDP-3 project
highlightsthe institutional dimensions of village empowerment. Bappenas, HomeAffairs, and the WB
task team have identified three sets of actions that are needed to strengthen village governance within the
decentralized public administration. These are (i)   protecting village autonomy; (ii)   improving village
capacities to represent themselves inhigher levelinstitutions; and (iii)   creating representative
inter-village bodies. The sections that follow describe these three sets of recommendations inmore detail
since they form key parts of the proposed project.

Protecting Village Autonomy
National legislation to protect the rights of villages. Most of the 13 regulations assigned to local
government ("perdas") can have a direct impact on the quality of village government. The central
government should, therefore, provide a binding outline for such regulations, with clauses that are fixed
and unalterable by local government and (mainly technical) clauses that may be adjusted to local
conditions. This will ensure proper interpretation of Law 22 concerning village autonomy. The national
regulation outline should be based on the district-level regulations that are already been made operational
by localgovernments duringthe past two or three years. The good and reasonable ones should be taken
as models and then molded into 13 standard national model laws. Inthis manner, the proposed national
law would be a reflectionof what i s best among local regulations. The makers of the model regulations
could explain to their colleagues in other districts why they drafted the regulations the way they did and
their experience has been with implementation. Districts that still have not yet issued the required 13
perda's can proceedimmediately on the basis of the 13 models.

 Civic information and educationprograms. Inorder to give village autonomy meaning, village leaders
and villagers should know about their rights and the ways to protect them. This 'instruction' should not
be limited to village group discussions and one-way presentation of texts and diagrams. Programs should
also cover schools, religious institutions and should make use of books, magazines and radio programs.

 Training in administrative and monitoring skills to reinforce village administration. Local government
criticism of village-level administration, monitoringcapabilities and reportings h l l s i s often
well-founded. Villages are not strong inthese areas because they were never allowedto practice them in
 the past. With enhanced autonomy, they will need to master these skills. Broad civic educationmay also
 stimulate interest in taking up formal posts in village government, the BPD and other village institutions.
The current shortage of candidates i s partly due to the fact that people do not know what they can do with
 their powers and see their tasks largely asproforma .

 Continuing studies of village governmentsand their relationship to village capacity and social capital.
 The impact of new legislation and empowerment programs should be regularly evaluated to assess their
 impact on the quality of local leaders, institutions, governance practices. Government and society at


                                                      - 11-

village level i s complex and diverse. Programs and projects do not always work the way they were
expected to.

Strengthening Capacityfor Village Representation and LocalAccountability

Law 22 of 1999 explicitly enshrines the principles of empowerment and autonomy as the basis for village
government under decentralization, stating that the basis for the new regulations for village government
i s `diversity, participation, genuine autonomy, democratization and people's empowerment'. However, it
i s local implementing regulations-in    particular, perdas passedby local parliaments-that    will determine
whether this new basis for village government i s realizedinpractice. Such regulations are also the
pre-conditions for providing development assistance to villages through non ad hoc procedures.

KDP3's localgovernance strategy buildson the village-level work of KDP 1andKDP 2. It focuses on
the relationships among villages and district governments. It will help develop the capacity of local
governments to draft and pass local legislationthat promotes the village representation and district-level
accountability defined by Law 22/1999. Inthe long term, this effort will ensure the sustainability of
KDP-inducedpractices, such as a community-driven approach to development, and will encourage local
governments to handover increasingly larger portions of their authority and resources (especially budget)
to the village level. KDP's strategy involves:

Review of regulations concerning village councils and other representative bodies. Nationallegislation
and district regulations should ensure that the BPDs are (i)diverse (representing, as much as possible,
women, the poor, outlying hamlets and clusters, cultural minorities): and (ii)    accountable to the
communities they represent. Responsive and accountable BPDs will enhance responsiveness on the part
of formal leaders and stimulate involvement by villagers inpublic issues. Several recent studies by GO1
and Indonesian universities support the view that the new village representative councils should be given
priority support.

Supportfor the drafting and public monitoring of district regulations. Legislative drafters at the DPRD II
level have inadequate technical slulls, poor knowledge of the law and a lack of access to examples of
well-drafted legislation. As a result, perdas are often drafted vaguely or badly. Those related to village
governance may not reflect the principles of village autonomy and empowerment provided for inLaw 22.
Poor public access to perdas also hinders the capacity of the public to monitor local legislation and
ensure that perdas are not used by local government as a vehicle for promoting personal and partisan
interests. GO1efforts thus concentrate on:

      a. Public access to all perdas. There should be a distribution center to provide copies of local
           regulations and other public informationon policies and projects to promote greater monitoring
           by the public of localregulations
      b. Improvingthe capacity of the technical staff of representative bodies to draft legislation. This
           would take two forms: (i)  Providing them with examples of best practice from elsewhere and
           opportunities for public dialogue; and (ii)drafting courses for district and DPRD IItechnical
           staff. Simple wording and sentences will help the implementation and enforcement of district
           regulations. Consistent formatting and lay-out will also enhance transparency.


 Guarantee a minimumof funding directly to villages

 Ifvillages are expected to do more, they shouldbe given somefinancial operatingspace to do this.



                                                      -12-

Currently, district budgets are heavily skewed towards overhead and district-controlled projects. KDP-3
provides resources to support the strengthened local administrations.

D. InterVillage Cooperation

Ina nationalcontext, establishinginter-village cohesion is perhaps more important than strengthening
individual villages. The physical and sociological distance between a village and a district i s enormous.
Inthe past, subdistricts (kecamatans) brokeredthe relationship -- most villagers would be willing to
travel to subdistricts, and it was reasonable to expect subdistrict officers to visit most of the villages with
their kecamatan. Now that Law 2211999 has made the camat a district official, the resulting vacuum must
be filled by the villages themselves, before a district-controlled institutioni s installed. (There are already
examples where this i s happening).

Enhancing village capacity to overcome problems collectively will provide several benefits to district
government, among them:

         a. Fulfillingjoint needs, including the effects of natural disasters, more effectively.
         b. Resolution of horizontal disputes betweenvillages.
         c. Enhancing bargaining position in dealings with higher government.
         d. Makingbetter use of opportunities providedbybottom-up developmentplanning
             mechanisms.


Inter-village cooperation should be left to the villages as much as possible. Nevertheless, as with village
autonomy, some issues should be regulated at the national level to protect the basic principles of
democratic, transparent and accountable decision-makmg. A FordFoundation supportedstudy found that
" ...Somekabupatens     had issuedPERDAs on (inter-village collaboration fora) but none had any
guidelines for its implementation."

Basic elements for the Inter-VillageForum already exist within KDP and the draft regulations prepared
by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Additions and modifications to the draft should specify:

          a. Joining criteria. A Inter-VillageForum should not be mandatory. Law 22 rightly leaves the
             decision to establish a forum up to the villages. If a Inter-VillageForumi s established in a
             certain area, each individual village should be free tojoin or not. Although refusal to join
             could exclude it from certain advantages (e.g., a village that wants to participate in KDP,
             must also participate inthe Inter-Village Forum).
         b. Internal rules. Beforevillages actually meet to discuss cooperation, disputes etc., they
             should first agree on internal rules: chairpersodcommittee selection; whether to have an
             elected secretariat; cosdfunding of meetings; venue; reportingh-ecords etc.
          c. Scope of decision-making authority (priorities, funds, project implementation etc.),
          d. Implementation of projects. The Inter-VillageForumis, inprinciple, an informalbody. It can
             therefore not take on formal, legally bindingresponsibilities. Villages involvedin
             cooperation projects would each be responsible, separately, for their share inthe project
              (project quality, management, administration etc.), according to a proposal approved by the
             Inter-VillageForum. The Forum's main task would be to monitor implementation based on
             the approved proposal.


                                                     -13-

11.      Revolving Funds and Credit for Economic Activities

The second intervention of KDP3 will be to strengthen microfinance by providingprofessional oversight
and supervision to the revolving funds. The main microfinance (and rural finance) sector issues are: (a)
the persistence of unsustainable programmicrocredit; (b) the lackingoutreach of institutional
microfinance to rural villages; and (c) the lack of institutionalized support and supervision for
microfinance institutions operating outside the banlung sector.

Unsustainable credit programs. Programmicrocredit has beenprovidedmainly by the Government
through special credit schemes and poverty alleviation programs. The prevailingfeatures of program
microcredit havebeen: (i)     emphasis on channeling easy and cheap funds; (ii) of the demand for
                                                                                  neglect
savings and liquidity management instruments; (iii)      central designs neglecting locally varying demand
and conditions; (iv) instant intervention neglecting the needfor longer-term and gradual strategies; (v)
lack of proper program monitoring and credit supervision; and (vi) poor credit collection and
de-capitalization of loanable funds. This break with prudential microfinance standards was deepenedby
the channeling of huge amounts of subsidized funds duringand after the financial crisis. This has
impaired rather than supported low-income clients in getting access to sustained and growing
microfinance services, and it tends to undermine rather than complement the development of sustainable
institutional microfinance institutions.

Government policies in this respect have not changed. Most sector ministries which continue to use
subsidized programcredit on a large scale. The recent draft IndonesianI-PRSP emphasizes "...easier
access to be given to the poor to financing sources through the Micro Credit, Small Credit and
Cooperatives Credit programs       ...onconcessional terms". There i s neither a consistent microfinance vision
and policy nor an enabling legal and regulatory framework for the sound development of non-bank
microfinance institutions. The Ministry of Financei s presently reviewing a drafted microfinance law.
The Bank has beenproviding assistance as part of the partnership financial sector work that concentrates
on (i) assisting Go1develop a vision and strategy for financial services to the poor; (ii)  clarifying and
unifying the legal and regulatory framework for microfinance institutions, and (iii)     capacity building
issues for microfinance institutions, including dissemination of best practice tools.

Lack of credit outreach. Despite all efforts of financial deepening, the majority of villagers does not
have sustained access to financial services, especially microcredit. The major demand-supply gap in
institutional microfinance exists at the village level. Sustainable microfinance providers such as the BRI
unitand the BPR systemshavenot been able to close this gap. The renaissance of targeted credit policy
andprogram microcredit has been aiming at increasingoutreach quickly, while neglecting institution
buildingand sustainability. Institutionalmicrofinance outside the bankingsector is usually referred to as
LKM(Lembaga KeuanganMikro=microfinancial institution). Governmentprograms have been
increasingly promoting and usingLKMfor channelingfunds to target beneficiaries. This practice has
already corrupted the integrity of cooperatives and will hardly result in the development of independent
and viable non-bank microfinance institutions.

Lack of supervision and monitoring A major issue for the development of non-bank microfinance
institutions i s the lack of institutionalized effective support and supervision. Both the cooperative sector
and the usually government-driven LDKP have been suffering from this situation. Community-owned
microfinance institutions do not have sustained access to capacity buildingthrough institutional providers
of training, consultancy and supervision services. Projects partly provide these services for a limited time
and often without the necessary quality through individual consultants. A strategy focusing on the



                                                       - 14-

institutionalstrengthening of non-bank microfinance institutions would have to include innovative
approaches of ensuring sustained access to demand-oriented technical assistanceand effective
supervision. Supervision of non-bank microfinance institutions i s necessary for supporting their sound
development and part of a capacity buildingstrategy rather than only a function of deposit protection or
enforcing regulations. It mustbe locally available whether or not non-bank microfinance institutions will
be regulated and supervised by the central government.

Future microfinance sector strategy. The strategic challenge i s to combine increasing outreach and
sustainability within a financial systems approach. An important element of this strategy i s a vision of the
institutionalmicrofinance landscape some 10-20 years from now. This vision most probably will have
three major pillars: (a) the BRIunit systemincreasing outreach to the village level, while maintaining its
present soundness; (b) the BPR systemwith increased viability and downward mobility to the village
level; and (c) non-bank microfinance institutions focusing on providing financial services at the village
level. The latter include financial cooperatives as well as microfinance institutions owned and controlled
by communities. A first step towards this vision would be apolicy change givingpriority to institution
buildingfor sustainable microfinance, thus terminating solely outreach-oriented, andpolitically and
socially motivated, channeling of government funds, and especially refrainingfrom usingLKMas
channeling devices.

Community-owned microfinance institutions may not in all locations be a viable or advisable option.
Sustainable institutional development will not be feasible in more isolated and very poor areas, in areas
highly dominated by agriculture and without diversifiedeconomic opportunities, and in areas lackingthe
human resources required for this development. Where BRIunits and BPRs are actively increasing
outreach to villages in a competitive environment, strategies should support them rather than establishing
new competitors. Nonetheless, the community-driven revolving funds have indicatedthat there i s
considerable unmet credit demand and sufficient roomto move for well managed community-owned
microfinance institutions.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Earlier generations of KDP concentrated on the village planning process (KDP-1) and the technical
quality of works management (KDP-2). The main kecamatan block grant will consist of extending the
existing KDP-2 model described earlier for two more years. There are two main sets of new sectoral
issues to be addressedby the current generation of KDPprograms. The first consists of opportunities to
institutionalize KDPs' participatory planning and decision-making procedures inthe emerging context of
decentralization as described above. The second i s to strengthen community financial institutions.

Community Empowerment. The first development objective i s to provide the regulatory and legal
framework for village and inter-village strengthening. Inthis activity, the Ministry of Home Affairs
would prepare a binding outline for the 13 regulations needed to implement Law 22. They would be
based on the district level regulations that have already been made operational duringthe past three
years. The outline and best practice examples will be developed jointly with the association of district
heads and other stakeholders inIndonesia; MoHa consultations with the bupatis started duringproject
preparationbut will be accelerated following completion of appraisal. Support through this component
will aim to improve the capacity of the institutions of local governance, in particular the Village
Representative Councils (BPD), the Inter-village forums (FAD),and the technical staff of the district
legislatures (DPRDs) and commissions charged with support to communities. This component will also
explore opportunities to enhance community revenue bases, inparticular through revisions to
procurement rules so that communities can more easily participate inpublic contracting.




                                                     -15-

                                            Table : 1: KDPstrategy fc village governa :e reform
                                                                                                                          ~~    ~~
'olicy Issue                  Past practice         Current policy           KDP-1              KDP-2                     KDP-3
Selectionof form of           Standardized, based   To be determined         Usedstandard,      Adds non-voting           Proposes national
 village govemment            on national law       through kabupaten        preexisting formal members to village        and district
                                                    specific procedures      and informal       andinter-village          regulations to
                                                                             groups             forums                     support village and
                                                                                                                          inter-village
                                                                                                                           institutions'
Strengtheningvillage         )e facto all selection Local electionsbut       Adds informal      Village leadership         Strengthensnew
leadership                   iy district            procedureand             membersto village  training, joint            village parliament
                                                    ratification by district and subdistrict    monitoring with            (BPD) and
                                                                             bodies             DPRD                       inter-villageforums
Revenue base                  Uniform$2,000         Decidedby district       3 yr. Subdistrict  3 yr. Subdistrictblock     2 yr. Subdistrict
                             central transfer for                            block grant        grant                     block grant to
                              village                                                                                      complete 5 year
                             administration                                                                                cycle.
Counterpart funding from     None                   Not decided              None               Matchinggrant pilot       Matchinggrant
local govemment                                                                                                           `standardized for all
                                                                                                                           districts
Fundingdecision for          Proposals approved     District                 Subdistrict        Subdistrict                Subdistrict
community projects           at district level or
                             higher
Village infrastructure needs Ly sectoralagencies    Nopolicy                 Project specific   Village-wide               Village-wide
assessments                                                                                     assessment                 assessment
Relationto district          Reportsto district     Determined by            Usedexisting       Village socialization       Support for
govemment                    executive              individual districts     structures         programs for               strengthening
                                                    executivesand                               executive and              district parliaments
                                                    oarliament                                  parliament
Relationto line agencies     Dinas's provide all    Not clear                None               Subdistrict                Joint planning for
                             technical services                                                 "presentations" by          specializedservices
                                                                                                district dinas's to         (health, education,
                                                                                                subdistrict forums         irrigation etc)
Microfinance                 Subsidized, directed   No nationalpolicy        Commercial         Limited capacity           Technicalsupport
                             credit                 exists (inprep.)         interestbut low    strengthening.Still         and supervision to
                                                                             repayment          within standard             free-standing
                                                                                                project management          revolvingfunds; no
                                                                                                units                       new loanfunds;
                                                                                                                            private bank
                                                                                                                            linkages
                                                                                                                                  -
Grievanceand dispute         Complete               No significant reform    Introduced NGO     ContinuedNGO and            Continues NGO,
resolution                   domination by          ofjudiciary but NGO      and press          press; barefoot lawyer      press and paralegal,
                             executive              and media freedomto      independent        and pilot systemfor         introduces;
                                                    organize                 monitoring         paralegalaccess.            extended
                                                                                                                            community based
                                                                                                                            monitoring.
Genderequity                 Women defined by       National policy on       Promotedwomen's    Special planning            Support for women
                             household roles        gender                   participation in   streamfor women's           inlocalgovemment
                                                    mainstreaming but        decision-making;   groups, competitive
                                                    many new district        Women              reward for promoting
                                                    regulations and          facilitators.      women's
                                                    customary restrictions                      participation,
                                                    contradict it.                              women's engineers
                                                                                                program.




                                                                 -16-

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for adetaileddescription and Annex 3 for adetailedcost
breakdown):
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements
5. The IndonesiaPilot for Enhanced Disclosure of Informationbeingpursuedin the context of the
    Bank's revised InformationDisclosure Policy

Component 1:Block grants to kecamatans ($278.9 million)           -- The heart of KDP3 consists of block
grants that are transferred directly from the Special Account to the subdistricts thata are participating in
KDP.Block grants take two forms. One block grant supports investment proposals made by villages and
selected by consensus in an inter-village decision meeting. The second consists of block grants to support
the participatory planning process. Each i s described below.

         A.       Block investment grants to KDP-3 communities         -- ($253.0 million) - The purpose of
         this component is to provide two years continued support for the block grant programin
         approximately 2,000 subdistricts that have already been through 3 years of KDP. A limited
         number of additional eligibility criteria apply to new subdistricts:
              i.subdistrictsinnewhighpovertydistrictswhichwerepreviouslyineligibleforKDP;
             ii.post-conflictareaswhereKDPprovidestheplatformforotherpostconflictservices;and
             iii.kecamatansproposedbydistrictsforfullfundingfromtheirownbudgetsbutwhereTA
                  i s requested;


         KDPblock grant amounts will remain the same: 500,750, or 1,000million rupiahper subdistrict
         (approx. US$55,000, $75,000, or $110,000) based on their population. This component also
         includes implementation costs for facilitators and government operational funds.

         B.       Kecamatanplanning grants ($25.9 million) supports the village and kecamatan
         planningprocess by allowing villagers to develop a cadre of self-selected social and technical
         facilitators. Other activities funded through this component include village cross-audits,
         dissemination materials, and the costs of local travel.

Component 2: Developing community and local government ($41.8 million of which $$35.2 million
i s Bank financing and $6.6 i s GO1financing) -- This component consists of activities to strengthen the
local government councils formed under Laws 22 and 25, with a particular focus on the village
representative forum (BPD), inter-village forums (FAD), and the district parliaments. Most of the
component finances social and technical facilitators. Facilitators are recruited from the private sector.
They receive a project-managed training program as well as periodic refresher courses. Other activities
include: technical assistance for BPD capacity development; training in administration and monitoring
skills to reinforce village administration, and village-level civic information and educationprograms
about decentralization. Local governments would contribute infinancing local regulations development
processes.



                                                     -17-

Component 3: Support to Village Micro-FinanceInstitutions ($8.7 million)-- SustainingUPK
revolving fundoperations i s about the development of localfinancial institutions. The major problems
experiencedby eligible UPKs are inadequate organization, governance and management capacity rather
than the lack of loanablefunds. This requires giving focus to the organizational and financial
development of each institution, thus making microfinance and institutionaldevelopment expertise
locally available.

Under the proposedKDP-3, no new groups would be created and the project will not provide additional
investment funds. The direct target group of the project are UPKs that have graduated from KDP-1 or
will graduate from KDP-2. If economically feasible and institutionallyeligible, the project would give
communities the opportunity to develop their UPKs into sustainable service providers. With the
termination of KDP-1 in 2002 regular project support was withdrawn from 45% of its 986 participating
kecamatans. The remainingkecamatans will continue to participate in KDP-2 until they have gone
through the maximum three years of support provided by KDP. The purpose of this component within the
proposedKDP-3 i s to ensure a more orderly project withdrawal by giving each eligible KDPkecamatan
the opportunity to move from programto local funding inkecamatans that have graduated from KDP-1or
will graduate from KDP-2.

Project support will be limited to training, technical assistance and supervision. It will focus on the
effective and efficient use of the currently existing funds to let loan funds grow. Inmost cases, the
project does not envisage using savings as a source of loan funds for long-term sustainability although
over the longer term this i s a desirable objective. Low-income households at the village level often need
appropriate savings products rather than business credit. However, the current weakness of UPKs
exposes savings deposits to highrisk.Savings as a source of loan funds will be introduced later and
gradually, if UPK organization, governance and management as well as the legal framework support this
step. As savings mobilizationwill not be an immediate development step, appraisal will assess whether
the project should open a very restricted window of financial assistance for UPKs. Guidance on this
issue will be sought from the RD/FSO team preparing the Sustaining Microfinance Project and managing
the microfinance policy dialogue with GOI.

Component 4: Implementation Support (total $39.9 millionof which $17.9 millioni s Bank financing
and $$22.0 million i s GO1financing )      - This component    consists of technical assistance to the national,
provincial, and district governments. Each "level" of facilitator supports a correspondinglevel of
government. While at first glance the structure may appear to replicate positions that notionally exist
within the civil service structure, in actual fact these are positions that the government recognizes are not
appropriate for civil servants to perform. Usingconsultants rather than civil servants for technical
activities, including facilitation, i s therefore part of the general governance strategy to privatize functions
best filled through the market. B y contrast, freeing civil servants from such functions allows them to
concentrate on the policy and regulatory activities that their positions andjob descriptions specify.
Additional activities funded through this component include training courses in legislative drafting, and
support to PMD for carrying out overall project evaluations through the provision of technical assistance.
GOI's contributions will cover the overall management, coordinations, monitoringand supervisions at
national, provincials, districts and subdistricts levels.

Component 5: Studies, Evaluation, and SpecialPrograms ($3.1 million)               -- Major  activities to be
funded through this component are a programof poverty impact assessments using quantitative and
qualitative methods, continued support to thejustice for the poor program started under KDP-2, pilot
programs for community basedmonitoring, and studies on village and subdistrict revenue generation,



                                                        - 1 8 -

trade, and infrastructure. TOR for the first-year's M&Eprogram will be reviewed during appraisal.

Component 6: Operational Costs ($2.4 million)             -- This component      will fund the costs of
incremental travel and comsumables for the National KDP Secretariat. All expenses will be SOE
basedon a three month travel plan.

A. Project Organization andApproach to Technical Assistance and Supervision
Component 1:Block grants -- KDP2 developed a comprehensive system for managing and supervising
a national level project that will be continued under the KDP-3 block grants. Consultants support each
level of govemment. A small national level oversight consultant supervises 15 five personregional
management units. Each regional group includes at least one supervising engineer, a social coordinator, a
trainer, a bookeeping group, and a database management specialist. Below them i s a district team that
consists of a district technical specialist, who supports the subdistrict and village technical teams; and a
district level social specialist who supports the subdistrict and village facilitator teams. At the
bottom-most level of the system, each village elects a male and a female village facilitator whose job i s to
disseminate project information, support training programs, and supervise the village levelplanning
process.

KDP subprojects also buildin technical oversight. Communities receive a small budget for contracting
engineers from a pre-qualified list to help design project proposals, and project proposals can include up
to 10%to cover the costs of supervising engineers. All large projects must be individually reviewed and
approved by the KDPdistrict engineer.

Component 2: Institutionalizing community empowerment-- Most of the training and workshop
activities covered under this component would be implemented through the regional management units
described for the block grant component, above. The majority will be carried out by regional NGOs and
recognizedtraining institutes. However, more specialized technical assistance will be needed to support
the national legislative drafting and review process, and also for support to the DPRD technical staff
groups that deal with village governance.

Outuut 1:Bindingoutlines for 13 regulations on village government
          Review of existingperdas
          Multi-stakeholder drafting
          Consultative process with KDP districts
          DPRD approval

Outuut 2: Strengthening Representative Institutions
          Core administration and monitoring training program for BPDs and FADS
          Regional workshops and networks formed
          Civic informationand education programs
          Drafting courses for DPRD and district staff

Output 3:Inter-village forums
          Modelimplementing instruction produced by MoHA
          Selectionprocedure and core rules promulgated
          Internal rules for dispute resolution developed
          Kecamatan public budgeting




                                                     -19-

OutDut 4: Community revenue enhancement
         Adaptation of Kepress 18 to community contracting conditions
         Guidelines on local revenue generation

Output 5: Institutionalizinrr participation
         Village cross audits
         Inter Kecamatan workshops
         Kabupaten workshops

Component 3: Microfinance -- The new strategy for developing UPKs has important consequences for
project organization and implementation, distinguishing it from that of KDP-1and KDP-2.

A. This section elaborates in some detail the principles that will be followed duringproject preparation.

             The microfinance component will be separatedfrom other project activities, and has its own
             logical framework, budget and management.
             The national microfinance team should be small, but it must be staffed with highquality
             experts having operational autonomy.
             Local consultants must be specialized in microfinance and mustbe responsible for single
             UPKs with a workload enablingmonthly visits to each UPK.
             The selection of local consultants (firms) and all activities in the fields of training, technical
             assistance and supervision should support the objective to sustain these services with UPKs
             gradually taking over the costs of services.
             Technical assistancemust focus on developing UPK associations that can gradually assume
             functions of training, technical assistanceand supervision.
             Training and follow-up technical assistance must be closely linked to ensure transformation
             of knowledge into practice.
             Monthly off-site and on-site supervision must be available, first by project consultants then
             by external parties andUPK associations.
             Performance monitoring will be based on supervision results. Supervision will be carried out
             on the basis of a standardized accountingand financial reporting system, which will be made
             obligatory for participating UPKs.

Component 4      -- Implementation   Support  -- KDP-2  introduced a new system for paying and managing
the facilitators. Rather than recruitingthem through 30 odd companies that were deployed around the
country, the project replaced the management companies with a single payroll agent who would release
monthyl salaries to the individual consultants. KDP3 takes this system significantly further. All
facilitators will switch onto the direct payment system. Operational costs can also be provided as block
amounts through monthly payments. (See Annex 6 for additional explanation). Management of the
faciltiators has also changed somewhat. Village facilitators are recruited and managed through the BPD
(village legislature). Kecamatanand district faciltiators support district coordination teams. Both the
facilitators and the monitors join monthly review meetings with the district government. The national
consultant team that supports PMD also includes 14regional management groups, thus replicating the
current structure in which provincial governments represent the center.

Component 5      -- Studies and Evaluations -- KDPhas always included a strong analytical program. This
component will continue to support MoHAs quantitative and qualitative monitoringthrough a series of
consultancies commissionedby PMD and managed by the technical consultants. The compoinent also
includes funds to support specialized evaluation firms. They will be commissioned and managed by the



                                                    -20-

Bappenas poverty secretariat, which is charged with strategic evaluation and planning.

KDP maintains a robust programfor analytical and evaluation work, which would be continued under
KDP-3. Terms of reference for two quantitative studies would be available by appraisal: a poverty impact
evaluation based on a panel first surveyed under KDP-1, and a statistical sample that would include
additional questions added to the large expenditure and infrastructure surveys managed by the Statistical
Bureau (BPS). This component also funds a series of studies designed to assess the economic and social
efficiency of KDP interventions in the following areas: support for vulnerable groups within villages,
dissemination of economic information, use of redress mechanisms for dispute resolution, governance
spillover effects, and reductions of corruption. Outputs expected from the monitoring and evaluation
programare as follows:

Output 1:InternalMonitoring
Community participatory monitoringin all villages
Financialsupervision in at least 10% of all subdistricts
Technical audits in 10%of all villages
Complaints resolution database to resolve at least 75% of annual cases
Bi-monthly newsletter to reach all villages

Outuut2: External Monitoring
Independent NGOs in each province to monitor 2 districts per year
Independent journalists to publishfield reports inregional and national newspapers
Reports from legal aid program (3 provinces)
Independent audits

Outuut 3: Internal Evaluations
Review of infrastructure quality
Review of economic benefits
Local government survey
Evaluationof special program for Papua
Ethnographic reviews on special topics

Output 4: External Evaluations
4,500 HHimpact survey
55,000 HHSusenas survey
Review of anti-corruption incentives
Civil society review of governance impacts

B. UPK Ownership and Governance
        The successful development of UPKs requires an ownership and governance model that supports
sound microfinance operations. Community ownership must be given substance and organization to
become effective. Important principles are:


        0    Community ownership must be substantiated in annual community assemblies that decide on
             general policies and elect a) a boardof owner representatives talung policy decisions in
             between the assemblies, and b) a supervisory board for the inspection of UPK operations.
             Both boards are responsible to the annual assembly.
        0    The community assembly issues by-laws regulating ownership, objectives, organization and
             operation of the community-owned microfinance institution.



                                                   -21 -

             KDP grants allocated to loan activities mustbe defined as institutional(paid-up) capital of
             the community-owned microfinance institution. The use of this capital i s limited to providing
             microcredit services.
             The UPK i s defined as a specialized microfinance institutionthat has the objective to
             increase outreach to low-income households at the village level. If UPKs are involvedin
             activities other than revolving fund management, they must be organizationally separated.
             The board of owner representatives selects UPK management based on clearly defined
             criteria related to professional capability.
             The UPK management i s responsible to the board of owner representatives, but it must be
             operationally autonomous. It must have the authority and the responsibility to manage the
             entire credit process. The UPK director i s liable for loss.

C. UPK Management
         Besides ownership and governance, financial and credit management capacity will be the most
crucial factor predicating the successful development of UPKs as microfinance institutions. Important
principles are:

             UPKmanagement is responsible for protectingcapitalby prudential and cost-covering
             operations, and for increasing loanable funds by generation of profits.
             The UPK musthave a standard accounting and financial reporting system. Monthly financial
             reports have to be submitted to the supervisory board and the external supervisor
             (association, consultant, other independent party to be determined). A consolidated annual
             report mustbe submitted to the community assembly.
             Credit management must be based on direct lender-borrower relationships.
             Credit decisions will be taken based on borrower eligibility and credit feasibility.
             Community members with sustained access to institutional credit or without profitable
             business opportunities and adequate repayment capacity are not eligible.
             Credit groups must meet eligibility criteria, must be able to prepare loan proposals, and must
             pledge measurable efforts ofjoint responsibility (Le., collateral savings) to get access to
             credit.
             Borrowers have gradual access to credit based on track records. With low ceilings for first
             time borrowers, well performingborrowers should have access to larger amounts and
             sustained access to credit.
             Interestrates must reflect local market rates, and must cover costs, including loan loss costs
             and imputed capital (inflation) costs to sustain the net value of capital.

D. ClassificationandSelectionof ParticipatingUPKs

InJune 2002, KDPcarriedout a survey to identify UPKs that may be eligiblefor further project
assistance. The UPKs participating in the survey were classified based on two indicators that tentatively
show their viability potential: a) the amount of net loan funds (capital minus bad debts) still available
(scale of economy) and b) the net loan fund to initial loan capital ratio (past performance). Results from
the survey make possible a simple classification that will guide overall KDP-3 microfinance support

"Class A" comprises the best performingUPKs with net loan funds larger than Rp. 125 million. This
class will have priority access to technical assistance aiming at developing viable microfinance
institutions. Pendmg final assessmentof willingness and prospects, they will have access to the full range
of support services provided by the project.



                                                     - 22 -

"ClassB"consists of UPKsthat will have access to project support depending on certain conditions.
"Class B1" comprises UPKs with net loan funds larger than Rp. 125 million and a less convincing
performance. Duringthe first year of project implementation they must have proved their willingness and
capability to improve performanceto a level that later allows to upgrade them to "Class A". Duringthe
second year of project implementation they must have upgraded to "Class A". "Class B2" consists of
well performingUPKs with net loan funds between Rp. 50 and Rp. 125 million. To reward their
performance, and depending on willingness and prospects, they will have access to a matching grant, the
maximum of which i s the difference betweencurrent loan funds and Rp. 125 million (to be reviewed at
appraisal). "Class B3" consists of UPKs in the same net loan fund category but with a less convincing
performance. They would be given the same opportunity only, if they considerably improveperformance
duringthe first project implementation year.

 "ClassC"comprises UPKsthat either have net loan funds smaller than Rp. 50 million or have already
lost more than half of their initial loan funds. Among them are well performingones that, however, have
net loan funds not larger than Rp. 25 million. The remaining worst performers include UPKswith
relatively large net loan funds. Theoretically, they would be able to break even and sustain operations.
However, this seems to be unrealistic becausethe loss of more than half of their loan funds points to
serious problems that cannot be solved within the limits of the proposedproject.

"ClassD'comprises the UPKsthat do not participate inthe surveys, an explicit condition to get access
to follow-up support. It i s assumedthat they are either not interestedin follow-up support, are close to
bankruptcy or have already terminated revolvingfund operations. All UPKs identified as revolvingfund
managers will be covered by some project activities. But, "Class D/C" UPKs will be assisted only to
orderly and officially terminate revolving fund operations. In-depth assessmentscarried out duringthis
activity may still come to the conclusion that single UPKs should be upgraded to

E. ProjectImplementationandInputs
Major projectactivities

     output 1

         0   Socialization workshops for eligible UPKs at kabupaten level.
         0   Selection of participating UPKsbased on assessmentof development prospects and
             application documenting willingness to comply with project principles.
         0   Technical assistanceto get ownership and governance structure right.
         0   Technical assistanceto get organization and management right.

     output 2

         0   Assessment of capability and training needs of UPK managers and staff.
         0   Workshop on preparinginstitutionaldevelopment plans for each UPK and follow-up
             technical assistance.
         0   Firsttraining course on UPK organization and administration, accounting and financial
             reporting, target groups and credit management.
         0   Follow-up technical assistanceto transfer knowledge of first training into practice.
         0   Second training course on comprehensive credit management, internal control and financial
             analysis.
             Follow-up technical assistanceto transfer knowledge of second traininginto practice.



                                                    -23-

        0   Thirdtraining course on financial management.
        0   Follow-up technical assistance to transfer knowledge of third training into practice.

    output3
            Workshop on establishing and strengthening UPK associations.
        0   Preparation of by-laws and work plans for associations.
        0   Provision of office equipment and staffing of associations.
        0   Training on UPK supervision and follow-up technical assistance.
        0   Facilitatingcooperationbetween associations and local government to prepare legal status,
            regulatory and supervision system for UPKs.

    output4

        0   Preparing logical framework and implementation manual.
        0   Procuring microfinance firm and/or capable microfinance experts.
        0   Preparing technical manuals and materials for training, technical assistanceand supervision.
        0   Preparing implementation plans with technical assistanceand supervision carried out at least
            once a month for each UPK.
        0   Transfer of technical assistance and supervision functions to UPK associations.
        0   Cooperation with local government to establish enabling regulatory framework and
            cooperation model with UPK associations.

                                    Table 3.1: Estimated Cost Table

                                                                Indicative                  Bank-      %of
                         Component                                costs        Yoof       financing   Bank-
                                                                 (US$M)       Total        (US$M)   financing
                                                                  253.00          67.1      155.10      62.1
~~Kecamatan Grants for Infrastructure
  Kecamatan Grants for Planning                                     25.90          6.9       25.90      10.4
  Community Capacity Building                                       41.80         11.1       35.20      14.1
  UPKMicrofinancesupport                                              8.70         2.3        8.70       3.5
  Implementation Support                                            39.90         10.6       17.90       7.2
  M&EandStudies                                                       3.10         0.8        3.10       1.2
  Incremental Operational Cost                                        2.40         0.6        1.90       0.8
                                          Total Project Costs     374.80          99.5      247.80      99.2
                                               Front-end fee          2.00         0.5        2.00       0.8
                                 Total Financing Required         376.80         100.0      249.80     100.0

2. Key policy andinstitutionalreforms supported by the project:
The general policy objective of KDP-3 i s to institutionalize the village-level planning framework. This
will be achieved through

        a. the matching grant program, which continues to move participating kecamatans from a 100%
            grant base given to a limited number of kecamatans, to a matching grant basis that can reach
            a larger number of kecamatans across the country;

        b. promulgating an administrative and regulatory framework to consolidate village governance,
            of which the issuance of the 13 perdas are the most important; and



                                                   -24-

         c. strengthening the management capacity of the village financial institutions built through
            K D P l and 2 (this component complements the "Sustaining Micro-finance Project" being
            prepared by EASRD).


3. Benefits and target population:
KDPs target population i s the ruralpoor. Participating subdistricts are selected on the basis of poverty
measurements, and poverty i s one of four criteria that villages use for ranlung proposals during
kecamatan competitions. KDP-3, while still targeting the rural poor, aims to reach entire village
populations rather than particular segments.

There are three immediate, measurable benefits from the KDP approach: (i)       economic infrastructure built
through KDP costs on average 20% less than other currently used methods used for community
infrastructure; (ii)benefits from both the process and the products of KDPreach the poor; and (iii)
surveys show highlevels of end user satisfaction from KDP.

Studies done for KDP-1 document some of these benefits in more detail. Between 1998-2002, KDP
funded some 50,000 infrastructure, economic, and social activities. Ex post analysis usingon-site data
showed a weighted IRR of 60%. They benefited an estimated total of some 35 millionpoor villagers.
Approximately 2.8 million villagers directly earned short-termemployment from KDP infrastructure
projects alone, and 70% of the work force were from the poorest segments of their communities, which
themselves were selected on a poverty basis usingexpenditure-based wealth ranking. Another 18,000
community groups representing some 280,000 villagers received economic loans.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall management of the KDPprogrami s by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Sectoral issues are
addressedthrough a national level coordination board that includes members of all relevant sectoral
agencies, finance, audit, and planning. Thus, while KDP-1only included the Ministry of Infrastructure in
its coordination board, KDP-2 brought in health and education. to provide policy guidance for their
respective sectors. KDP-3 will bringinthe Bank of Indonesia, BRI, and the relevant branch of the
Ministry of Finance that deals with microfinance oversight.
Provincialand district management replicate the national structure. Each province and district maintains
a coordination board that has multi-sectoral participation. It reports to the district head (bupati) on a
monthly basis.

Operational management i s through a national management consultant. InKDP-1,the national team
included almost 50 senior staff (the project covered 16,000 villages). InKDP-2, the total number of
Jakarta based consultants dropped to 35, although the total number of villages rose to 20,000. The reason
for this change i s becauseeach province developed a 5-7 person regional management unit to provide
field oversight, coordination with local government, training, and reporting. KDP-3 will continue to
strengthen the regional management units by giving them limited procurement capacity and authority.
Services to be procured at the provincial level will include training programs (esp. for micro-finance),
localprinting,and specialized studies.

5. The Indonesian Pilotfor Enhanced Disclosure of Informationbeing pursuedinthe context of
the Bank's revised InformationDisclosure Policy:

As part of the implementation of the Banks revised disclosurepolicy, countries were selected for piloting
enhanced disclosure if the governments of these countries were interested in participating. InIndonesia


                                                    - 25 -

duringthe CAS consultations and other discussions, both the government and civil society expressed
keen interest in substantially greater access to information on Bank activities, especially duringproject
implementation, to allow full public discussion of project implementation findings. Under the Indonesia
pilot enhanced disclosure i s proposed to enable civil society oversight leading to greater transparency and
openness. It i s expected that initially civil society will require time to become familiar and reach the
level of understanding of the informationbeing provided, to use it constructively to reduce fiduciary risks


Inthe IndonesiaPilot for enhanced informationdisclosure beingcarried out inthe context of the Bank's
revised InformationDisclosure Policy, an approach to enhanced information disclosure has been agreed
with BAPPENAS on behalf of the Borrower. This approach consists of the following arrangements:
a. Agreement on the approach for disclosure of informationfor new projects to the effect that specific
    provisionfor enhanced disclosure will be built into the project arrangements duringproject
    preparation for an agreed upon list of projects to be included in the initial phase of the pilot. This
    agreed list consists of 4 projects, includingthe proposed ThirdKecamatanDevelopment Project.)

b. The specific issues where enhanced disclosure has been agreed upon concern: (i)       final audit reports
    issued under projects in the pilot will be made publicly available by both the Borrower and the Bank;
    (ii) mid-termreportonprogressunderaprojectinthepilotwillbemadepubliclyavailablebythe
        the
    Borrower; and (iii) the procurement process, where the Borrower has agreed that additional
    information concerning parts of the procurement process in projects in the pilot will be made
    publicly available. The Loan Agreement for this ThirdKecamatanDeveopment Project includes
    specific undertakings to effectuate these agreements. These undertalungs would eliminate the need
    for Go1approval to be obtained prior to the public release of such information.

C.  For documents other than those referredto in sub-paragraph b above (and which are currently not
    disclosed without Borrower consent), the Bank will continue to consult GO1prior to disclosure of
    such documents. Go1may consider moving to a more general practice of automatic release of such
    documents after the Government completes its review of enhanced information disclosure concerning
    the public provisions of services that it i s currently undertaking. Inthis regard, the anti-corruption
    guide for task teams and the anti-corruption annex (15) based on this guide (together with the
    covenants on disclosure of audits, mid-termreview report and procurement documents) are expected
    to facilitate the adoption of enhanced disclosure, and more open and transparent practices.

d. Agreement to utilize an IDFgrant to support activities for developing Go1policies for increased
    informationdisclosure under all government projects in Indonesia. A GO1implementation teamhas
    been established, and a Bank counterpart teamhas also been formed. Start-up activities for
    administrative arrangements and preparation of terms of reference of consultants under this grant
    have been launched.

The experience under this pilot will be reviewed after two years and recommendations for future
developments under the Bank's disclosure policy would be developed.


D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection:
Given the overall success of KDPl and 2, no major alternatives were considered. However, a number of
variants to the basic KDP model were discussed. One possibility would have been to make a program



                                                      - 26 -

rather than an investment loan. With a total of 30,000 of 65,000 villages already included in K D P l and 2,
a program loan might be a more efficient way to institutionalize KDP mechanisms. Two arguments
against this approach held sway. First, Indonesia's apex institutions remain weak and divided. The
national decentralization program also remains quite volatile, with highly uneven performance between
kabupaten and an ongoing struggle over the division of resources and responsibilities between the center,
province, and the regions. Inpractice, this means that greater than usual Bank involvement inproject
oversight is needed. Programloans are still beyond the reach of DepDagri's management capacities.
Secondly, there has been relatively little reformof Indonesianfiduciary environment (thisi s described
more fully in the CAS and CPPR). Since there i s a noticeable hfference when the Bank retains oversight
of individual contracts, the program loan option was rejected because of fiduciary risk.

Given that this i s now the third installment on a long-term program, an APL was also considered.
However, because of the volatility of Indonesia's institutionaland economic environment, periodic
re-appraisals of short-termprojects of the type beingproposedhere provide both the Bank and the
Borrower with a more flexible tool for malung in-depth reviews and adjustments.

More detailed design alternatives were also considered, of which three are of special relevance for the
proposedappraisal. The first concems project B.          KDP3 at present i s limited to kecamatans that were
part of KDPl or KDP2. But another approach would have been to allow KDP-2to continue as planned,
while usingKDP-3 to cover the approx.25,000 villages that still have notjoined KDP. A follow-on
programmatic project could then pick up the entire program. The task team and government selected the
reverse sequence -- finalize the general design, buildup the 5 year cycle and the matching grant program
first -- so that the project could could work closely with localgovernments already familiar with the
project on how to transfer it into local funding and procedures. Each district can then become the nodal
point for introducingthe programinto the subdistricts and villages not yet covered. However, appraisal
will assess a variation of this theme: supplying the participating kabupatens with a fixed amount to the
district rather than to the subdistrict, which would be used as the matching share to cover all of the
kecamatans within that district.

A second design option is to complement the current approach, which de facto limits investments to
village-level projects, with an additional fund inthe the subdistrict council itself whose purpose would be
to support larger programs that cross village boundaries. The advantage of this is that it would complete
the planning ladder between KDP and the proposedproject for kabupaten governance reform, KGRIP.It
was rejected because of the additional complexity that it would impose on KDPs management structure,
but appraisal will revisitthe issue one last time. All technical and financialpre-requisites for such an
addition already exist.

A thirdpossibilityfor improvingKDP's design would be to buildinmuch stronger linkages with sectoral
programs at the level of investment, notjust that of planning. Thus, for example, communities opting for
notjust a school but also a teacher could hire contract teachers usingtheir KDP funds. In principle this
option already exists inthe open menu, but it has never been made operational. However, collaborative
review with the HDprogram suggeststhat this option i s still premature untilthere i s a clearer path for
ensuring sustainability.




                                                     - 2 7 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                        Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                        Project                   (PSR) Ratings
                                                                    (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                   Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress(IP)   Objective(DO)
What promotes community              Urban Poverty 1&2
organizationalreformeffectively?     CEP East Timor
LinlungCDD to other subnational      KGRIP,UGRIP (in.prep)
governance reformprograms            Provincial Health Project
Can micro-finance succeedin          Nusa Tengara Area
Indonesia?                           Development Project

Trade-offs involved in single sector Village Infrastructure II
versus multi sector village          KDP-1
infrastructure programming           WSSLIC-2
                                     WASPOLA
                                     Jogja Uplands

What promotes effective local        Brazil NW development
government reform                    projects
                                     Cambodia R L G P




Xher development agencies
Micro finance                        P4K (ADB)
                                     BI (GTZ support)
Local governance reform              Various (Ford Foundation,
                                     Partnership for governance)
Village Infrastructure               P2D (Japan), SwissAid,
                                     AusAid
[npres Desa Tertinggal               Go1
                                                                   Highly Unsatisfa

3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:
Overview -- KDP-3 is only part of the Banks programfor subnational assistance and it both draws on
other projects and will contribute to their design. K D P s microfinance component i s being prepared in
parallel with EASRD's upcoming project for sustaining microfinance, which will provide microfinance
loanfunds to UPKs that have graduated from the KDP program. Similarly, the KDP team works closely
with the proposedurban and rural projects for local government reform, KGRIP and URGRIP.Inall
these cases, project preparationincludes cross visits, shared consultants, andjoint reviews of design
documents through in-house workshops. KDP-3 collaborates in a similarly close fashion with the
multidisciplinaryteampreparing the proposed project for conflict areas, which EASES i s preparingin
tandem with EASHD, and much of K D P s thinkingon health sector activities i s informedby the now
active ProvincialHealth Project strategy for decentralized service delivery.

KDP-3 also tries to buildin a broad range of lessons learned from the earlier KDPs and from other
community development projects. KDP i s built on five overarching design principles. The first i s that the
project design i s set up to maximize end user choice. Menus are, with the exception of a small negative
list of items bannedby Bank policy, entirely open and communities can and do use the funds for a broad
range of local priorities. The second principle i s that of contestation -- villagers can use their funds to
purchase goods and services from whatever private sector, NGO, or moonlightinggovernment agency
can make the best deal.

The thirdprinciple i s that of direct negotiation. Villages have no assurancethat their proposals will be
funded. Fundingcomes only through negotiation, and there are always more proposals than there are
funds.Landacquisition, project locations, dispute settlement, contract management, and other key
elements in KDPproceed through direct negotiations between primary stakeholders in the inter-village
forums, not through intermediaries such as NGOs, line agencies, or other external bodies. Fourth i s that
project information must be actively shared, with the emphasis on "active" dissemination (a principle
honored as much inthe breach as in its practice). KDP's final principle i s to use existing village
organizations rather than promote the creation of new ones. Research by Pritchett et.al. shows that the
common practice of setting up project-specific user groups i s negatively correlated with the likelihood of
poor people receiving benefits; that is, not only do user groups tend to be taken over by local elites, but
they simultaneously undermine non-participants'own organizations' ability to continue providing
benefits.

Technical lessons More technical lessons reflected in the proposeddesign need to be groupedby their
                    --
respective components.Experience from the water supply projects and the village infrastructure program
highlightthe neednotjust for ownership by newly empoweredcommunities, but also for improved
technical training and oversight. Nearly all village technologies can be improved. Even simple steps such
as providing village work teams with new tools has been shown to translate into significantly higher
quality works. Reducingdesign complexity allows for improvedvillage maintenance, and KDP manuals
are being revised with such an objective inmind. Overall village-level infrastructure assessments have
also proven to be useful and will be reflected inthe new project.

Fiduciaries -- KDP-3 strengthens the community based planning process in ways that improve financial
management and reduce corruption. K D P s user-friendly formats and transparent procedures facilitate
community oversight. A key lesson now reflected in project documents i s that there should never be a
financial transaction with only two parties signing. Second, OSUhas producedtwo key manuals on
operational tools for reducing corruption in Bank-assisted projects, includingcommunity development
projects, and their main recommendations are reflected in the new operational manual. More and more
evidence from projects in Indonesia and elsewhere document the importance of sanctions for


                                                     - 29 -

anti-corruption programs. KDP-3 will include the results from an ongoing study linked with KDP-1 that
looks at incentivehanction mixtures in village infrastructure projects.

Local Governance     -- The  two urban poverty projects in Indonesiaand the three Community
Empowerment projects inEast Timor provide solid evidence that introducing improved procedures for
the formation and operation of community and subdistrict councils leads to more representative local
government and thus, more efficient and effective resource allocations. CEP in particular highlighted the
value of basing such councils in formal law, and notjust project-specific structures. KDP-3 moves away
from KDP's initial sole reliance on improving the planning process to more structured support for norms,
regulations, and formal procedures.

Microfinance -- The global literature on microfinance i s large. KDP-3 builds on a series of reviews of
microfinance program inIndonesiaand elsewhere, most notably the ADB's P4K project, Bank
Indonesia-GTZ cooperative programfor microfinance, and international NGOs such as Grameen Bank,
BRAC, and others. The literature i s clear enough on best practices for microfinance, but less clear on
how to reconcile objectives of sustainable microfinance with objectives of community empowerment.
For if the key to successful microfinance i s direct borrower-lender relationships and rigorous adherence
to clearly defined rules, the key to community empowerment i s almost always multi-stakeholder
involvement and collective decision-making. Previous K D P s have given priority to the empowerment
goal: the current project i s operating in a sufficiently changed environment tojustify a renewed emphasis
on sustainability. KDP-3 avoids the path of developing a large-scale system of microfinance institutions
but it does provide technical training to its revolving funds to improvetheir sustainability and to lay the
groundwork for the future SustainingMicrofinanceproject.

Monitoring -- KDP-3 builds in a robust program for monitoring and evaluation. The core of the internal
monitoring system i s the project's Management Information System(MIS). M I S informationi s
aggregated and used in each of the regional management units, with a master system maintainedby the
national oversight team. External monitoringi s provided through contracts to independent provincial
NGOs, and a blindcontract to the association of independent journalists (AJI). The contract provides
them with operational expenses so they can visit and report on KDPproject sites inregional and national
newspapers. They do not provide any prior information to the project. Two copies of their published
articles are sent to Home Affairs, and an annual review summarizes their findings.The journalists provide
a route by which the independent NGO monitors and other civil society groups can report on KDP
activities.

Quantitative evaluations include a 4,600 household panel survey and a 55,000 householdexpenditure
questionnaire appended to Sussenas. K D P s design draws on models developed for Cambodia's Seila
program, the Jogja Uplands Watersheds Project, and the earlier KDPs. More qualitative methods, in
particular community-basedmonitoring, draw on a series of poverty assessments conducted across Africa
inthe 1990s,monitoringusingphotodocumentationthat has been developed for the JSDF widows in
conflict areas project, and community monitoring and evaluation techniques developed by the Aceh NGO
forum in KDP-1.

K D P s monitoring and evaluation system suffers from several weaknesses that must be fixed and will be
reviewed duringappraisal. The three top problem are:

             field entries for the MIS are often delayed and the overall M I S systemi s usually 2-3 months
             out of date:
        0    national responsesto field reports is too slow and i s often inappropiate;



                                                      - 30 -

         0     the monitoringsystem is suffering from document proliferation, making it unwieldy.

 Some actions have been taken to remedy these problems but more needto happen before project start-up.
 Priority actions which will be appraised in the field include the following:

         0     assess the effectiveness of the decentralized MIS;
         0     improve the s h l l s level of the data entry team;
         0     revise the complaints handling response protocols; and
         0     simplify the formats.

 Evaluation reports have been less problematic although their procurement takes too long. Nevertheless,
 several have suffered from quality problems, particularly those involving statistical interpretation of
 poverty impacts from KDP programs. KDP-3 addresses this concern by adding concentrated inputs of
 international technical assistanceto support the statistical studies and write-ups. KDP-3 will also
 commission a study to evaluate the impact of the local government reforms introduced through the
 program.

 A summary of K D P s monitoring system is provided below, inTable 3.1


 No.              ACtiVity            Objective                                                                  outputs

I1
I    IIMonitoring by consultants/MISI1To monitor and regularly report   /Consultantsat the national,            IMonthly reports, database,  I
                                      upon KDP progress                 IP,",,,rovincial,district and kecamatan  problems solved.

 2     Monitoring by Govt. Officials  To monitor and regularly report   Govt. officials at the                   Reports andproblems so
                                      upon KDP progress,                national, provincialand                  lved
                                      trouble-shooting                  district level, DPRD, etc.
 3     Community Monitoring         I To monitor projects within their  Community members
                                      communities                                                               IActivities monitoredby
                                                                                                                 the community
                                                                                                                                 . .
                                      and best practices of KDP         occasionalconsultants
 5     Complaints Resolution Process  To document andresolve field      6 full-time KDP staff in                 Resolvedcases
                                      problems                          Handling Complaints                      Databaseof complaints
                                                                        Unit
 6     Financial Supervision and      To improve the financial skills   5 full-time staff with                   Training to UPKs and
       Training                       of UPKs and economic loan         accounting backgrounds                   economic groups. Field
                                      groups and to check               inthe Financial                          finances checkedand
                                      financiayadmin records at the     Supervision andTraining                  audited.
                                      kecamatanand village levels.      Unit




                                                              -31    -

                           Table 3.2: KDP'sExternal Monitoringand Evaluation
INGOProvince-BasedMonitoringbo monitor
I                                      andprovide an           b0provincial NGOs                   ]Monthly reports
                            bndewndent sourceof aualitative    I                                   I                                  I
                            informationon KDP
Journalist monitoringand    To provide independent monitoring   18 provincialjournalists, LP3ES/AJI Newspaperarticles, radio reports
reporting                   andreporting on KDP by local




                                  'ons; (b) to assess the                                           conomic feasibility assessment

                                       incomes and livin




 4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
 KDPhas never suffered from lack of borrower commitment. Bappenas and MoFhaveconfirmed their
 request for the project in writing, and, at a working level, Bappenas, MoHA, and the WB preparation
 team have bi-weekly review meetings. Some strictly financial indicators of government ownership
 include facts such as an additional counterpart contribution of US$30million during KDP-1, the request
 for a Supplementary Credit of US$50 million (also KDP-l), and the immediate take-up of the matching
 grant option by nearly half (70 of 146) of all participating local governments duringthe startup year of
 KDP-2. Other indicators include the extent to which abroad range of agenciesjoin KDP supervision
 missions and reviews; the frequency of minister and director general -level visits to KDP sites, and the
 proliferationof KDP "knock-offs" by local governments usingtheir own funds.

 Other actions, however, are not so positive. Government commitment at the level of "will" may be high,
 but at the level of "delivery" it is often low. KDP-2 startup was delayedby nearly seven months because
 of project-level management turmoil. Raisedto the level of several Ministers, the problems nevertheless
 lay unresolvedfor months. Government supervision standards remain quite lax, although it i s hardto say
 whether KDP supervision i s any worse than normal government supervision. Government i s unwilling to
 apply remedies to local government officials who misuse funds, although, to be fair, increasingly they do
 take actions of this type if agreed duringproject supervision. Field audit follow-ups without Bank
 prodding are also generally rare to non-existent.

 The proposed KDP-3 includes some strict tests of the depth of national and local government
 commitment to the program. Local "ownership" of projects has in the past been a generally nebulous
 concept. When virtually all local budgets were nothingbut transfers from the central government,
 measurements of ownership for the most part consisted of self-selecting measures such as the enthusiasm
 of government participants inpreparation meetings, or the speed with which preparation documents were
 prepared. KDP-3 will be one of the first projects in the new generation Indonesianportfolio to use more


                                                             - 32 -

objective measurements: whether large amounts of counterpart funds are committed through a
parliamentary procedure.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:
Bank contributions to the KDPprogram are valuable in four main areas. First, the Bank provides
oversight and pressure on what all stakeholders (even government) agree is an extraordinarily poor
fiduciary environment. Bank participation therefore contributes greatly to the effectiveness by which aid
i s used. Second, Indonesian agencies normally do not carry out very rigorous monitoringand evaluation
programs. This approach works reasonably well for tried and true programs which extend basic
development benefits to new groups. Constantly evolvingprojects such as KDP, however, require much
closer monitoring and evaluation because they are still at a stage where there are few standard procedures
and known outcomes. The Bank has played and will continue to play a central role in helpingGO1use
quantitative and qualitative measurements to improvethe program's design. Such studies are appreciated
and used when they are done, but they will not be done without WB involvement. Third, while Indonesia
has some of the worlds best experiences inproviding sustainable small credit (through BRI),it has
considerably less experience with micro-credit for the poor. Village-level credit in the past was
commonly providedas subsidized transfers through line agency programs, with little expectation of
repayment or oversight of use. Indonesia can no longer afford such programs. Nevertheless, a shift over
to sustainable micro-finance will require a major effort, where worldwide experience in other poor
countries will be of major assistance.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

0
1. Economic (seeAnnex 4):
    Cost benefit        NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0   Cost effectiveness
0   Other (specify)
Detailedcost-benefit data already exists for 230 completed infrastructure subprojects and will be
available for another 50 by the time of appraisal. They showed a weighted average return of 38-65%.
Schools and clinic are analyzed through cost-effectiveness methodologies. KDP-3 will include
comprehensive analysis of the community based approach to primary social service construction.
Non-representative data from year 3 sites suggests that KDP methods for school and clinic construction
are significantly less than standard methods and their quality i s as good or better.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 5%        (see Annex 4)
N o special financial issues exist in this project. Appraisal updated the full financial capacity assessment
that was preparedfor KDP-2 in 2001/2. A QAG5 supervision review suggestedgreater attention be
given to whole-system analysis. This suggestion has been accepted and i s now built into the OSUwork
program (see Figure 3).




                                                     - 33 -

                               Figure 3: KDPFundFlow System                              I


                                                Special Account      ransfer Funds

                                               Bank of Indonesia
                          National




                          Provincial           Bank of Indonesia




                                                                      Disbursements
                                                                      to the villages'
                                                                      collective
                                                                      account at the
                                                                      kecamatanlevel
                                                                      are made in

                           Kecamatan    Villages' Collective Account  installments of
                                        Banks (i.e., BRI, BNI, etc)   40%, 40% and




                                             Villagers / Groups

                                                                                          I

FiscalImpact:
Village infrastructuresbuilt through KDP methods cost significantly less -- on average about one-third
but inmany cases more than half less -- than equivalent works builtthrough Ministry of Public Works
contracts. Because the project provides grants to kecamatans, no costs are recoveredby the project.
Fiscalimpact from the project i s small. Communities are responsible for maintaining works built by the
project and thus pose no incremental burden on the government budget. At the national level, a
Bank/lDA blend at international interest rates and with 5 and 10year grace periods postpones the fiscal
costs of the project and avoids raising more expensive (and unavailable) local revenues.

3. Technical:
KDP's engineeringmanuals and trainingprogram were updated in 2002. KDP also includes a
broad-based technical training program. More than 2,000 field engineers were trained in low technology
engineering design duringthe first year of implementation. Follow-on traininghas helped the engineers
work with village technical teams to produce overall village infrastructure technical assessments, which
informthe KDPproject selection process. InKDP-3, village technical training will continue, with a
increasing emphasis on village-wide operations and maintenance.

 KDPalso includes some engineering thresholds to ensure that villager's reach does not exceed their
grasp. Concrete bridges supported by KDP, for example, cannot exceed 6 meters.




                                                        - 34 -

4. Institutional:
All Indonesiaprograms are taking place against abackdrop of dramatic institutional change.Five are
especially relevant for the KDP program:

       0    Weak central agencies. The massive, centralized government agencies developed under the
            New Order regime have lost much of their raison detre with both the weakening of the top
            and the rise of regional autonomy. At the micro, day-to-day level of project implementation,
            institutional struggles over who controls which resources have become much more volatile.
            Thus, specialized line agenciesincreasingly claim that only they can manage specialized
            activities, while local governments increasingly ignore orders sent by the line agencies in
            Jakarta. Similarly, whereas in the past districts were the local branch of the provincialand
            national government, today the province has little role in decision-malung --buti s trying to
            claw one back.

       0    Strengthened parliaments. The transformation of the national and district parliaments into an
            increasingly autonomous branch of government has created both new opportunities but also
            new challenges from subnational projects such as KDP. Procedures for development project
            approval and review are beingmade upon a case by casebasis.

       0    Growth of party politics. Indications are that Indonesia will soon switch from indirect to
            direct elections for localgovernment. Implications are likely to be more interest in
            large-scale voter organization in villages, which untilnow have stayed "below" party
            politics.
            Withdrawal of military from government. Indonesia's "dwifungsi" system by which the
            military retains a "shadow" role in local government has been inretreat since the fall of
            Soeharto. Reorganization of the military has made some progress inreducing its day to day
            political role still further, although inmany rural areas it continues to be a central player.

            Ongoing decentralization. The major implication of the decentralization with respect to
            community development is the suddenly strengthened role of the districts, which now hold
            most of the development funds and responsibilities. However, the linkbetween subdistrict
            and village institutions was left largely undefined.


InformationDisclosure

As part of the implementation of the Banks revised disclosure policy, countries were selected for piloting
enhanced disclosure if the governments of these countries were interestedin participating. InIndonesia
during the CAS consultations and other discussions, both the government and civil society expressed
keen interest in substantially greater access to information on Bank activities, especially duringproject
implementation, to allow full public discussion of project implementation findings. Under the Indonesia
pilot enhanced disclosure i s proposedto enable civil society oversight leading to greater transparency and
openness.

Inthe IndonesiaPilot for enhanced informationdisclosurebeingcarried out inthe context of the Bank's
revised InformationDisclosure Policy, an approach to enhanced informationdisclosure has been agreed
with BAPPENAS on behalf of the Borrower. This approach consists of the following arrangements:

        a. Agreement on the approach for disclosure of information for new projects to the effect that
            specific provision for enhanced disclosure will be built into the project arrangements during
            project preparation for an agreed upon list of projects to be included in the initial phase of


                                                     - 35 -

             the pilot. This agreed list consists of 4 projects, including the proposed ThirdKecamaten
             Development Project. (The other 3 projects are the proposed Water Resources and Irrigation
             Sector Management Project, the proposed Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical
             Assistance Project, and the proposed Health Workforce and Services Project.) Annex 13
             provides for a more detailed informationon these arrangements.
        b. The specific issueswhere enhancedisclosurehasbeenagreed upon concern: (i) audit     final
             reports issued under projects inthe pilot will be made publicly available by both the
             Borrower and the Bank; (ii)   the mid-termreport on progress under a project inthe pilot will
             be made publicly available by the Borrower; and (iii)    the procurement process, where the
             Borrower has agreedthat additional informationconcerning parts of the procurement process
             inprojects inthe pilot willbe made publicly available. The draft development credit
             agreement for this project [the Third Kecamaten Development Project] includes specific
             undertalngs to effectuate these agreements. These undertakings would eliminate the need
             for GO1approval to be obtainedprior to the public release of such information.
        c. For documents other than those referredto in sub-paragraph b above (and which are
             currently not disclosed without Borrower consent) agreement for the Bank to continue to
             consult GO1prior to disclosure of such documents. GO1may consider moving to a more
             general practice of automatic release of such documents after the Government completes its
             review of enhanced informationdisclosure concerning the public provisions of services that
             it is currently undertakmg. Inthis regard the anti-corruption guide for task teams and the
             anti-corruption annex (11)based on this guide (together with the covenants on disclosure of
             audits, mid-termreview report and procurement documents) are expected to facilitate the
             adoption of enhanced disclosure, and more open and transparent practices.
        d. Agreement to utilize an IDFgrant to support activities for developing GO1policies for
             increased informationdisclosure under all government projects in Indonesia. A GO1
             implementation teamhas been established, and a Bank counterpart team has also been
             formed. Start-up activities for administrative arrangements and preparation of terms of
             reference of consultants under this grant have been launched.


The experience under this pilot will be reviewed after two years and recommendations for future
developments under the Bank's disclosure policy would be developed.
4.1 Executingagencies:
KDPsexecuting agency is the Ministry of HomeAffairs, which has managed the KDPprogram since
2,000. MoHA has been a problematic agency, inpart because of frequent changes in its management, and
inpart becauseof the constant change in its overall mandate and operations. Supervision for KDP-1and
2 has flagged a number of recurrent problems with MoHA management. The most important of these has
to do with an unclear division of labor between the private sector consultants and the government KDP
secretariat. Startup of KDP-2, however, has seen a dramatic improvement in MoHa performance.

Because KDP-3 will runconcurrently with KDP2 for much of its life, the key appraisal issue with respect
to project management i s how KDP-3 management is linkedwith the management of KDP-2. GO1has
proposedthat a single project manager be responsible for both projects. Technical responsibilities would
then be given to the same district coordination teams and management consultants. This i s the preferred
solution from the Banks perspective as well and the proposal should be ratified duringappraisal.
4.2 Project management:
Overall project management has performed reasonably well given the magnitude of the project and the


                                                      - 36 -

rapidity with which it was scaled up.Now that the project's scope has levelled off at some 20,000
villages, attention needs to be given to addressing the management weaknesses. Priorities are to improve
the informationreporting and response system, implement the division of work between government staff
and consultants, and improve the quality of staff evaluations. Project appraisal also identified weaknesses
inthe management of the project'sM&Esystem which will require correctionbefore project launch.
Preliminary experience with the project's decentralizationof management functions to provincial
management units i s positive but more systematic monitoringand on-site trainingby the national team
will be needed during the project's first year.
4.3 Procurement issues:
KDP-3's procurement assessmentupdates the 2001/2 assessment carried out for KDP-2CPAR. KDP-2's
procurement assessment riskrating was "medium", and it i s expected that this will be the case for KDP-3
as well. The government's procurement performance for KDP-2 has been satisfactory to highly
satisfactory despite the scale of the procurement required (i.e. reviewing 27,000 individual c.v's for field
positions). Ex ante review by the procurement unit and ex post review by the task team under guidance
from the OSUgroup confirms the general impression that KDP-2 procurement was done well. (QAGS
cited KDP's village procurement as regional best practice)

Different procurement risks apply to the centrally procured Technical Assistance and to how the
community grants are spent. For the former, key risks are falsification of personnel qualifications, false
invoicing during training, and directed procurementby subcontractors. KDP-2 introduced a system of
direct contracting for community facilitators, whose salaries are managed through a private sector payroll
agent. This system appears to have reducedquality problems, overhead costs, and other procurement
risks significantly. KDP-3 extends this system to include the district and national facilitators as well. But
hands-on supervision will remain key throughout the procurement process.

Procurement at the village levelfocuses as much on capacity buildingas it does on risk mitigation.
Comparative pricing and public procurement i s not the normfor village procurement in Indonesia, but it
i s required for all KDP activities. Documenting the price and quality gains that villages receive has a very
convincing effect. KDP-2 monitoring i s measuring whether there are spillovers from KDPprocurement
procedures into non-KDP projects (anecdotal evidence from supervision provides several examples
where villagers adopted KDP's comparative, public shopping procedures for their non-KDP activities) .

Table 4.1 below lists the contract awards and amounts which are recommended for procurement as sole
source selection (Le. amendments to the existing KDP-2 contracts). The core proposal is to retain a
unifiedmanagement and payroll system but competitively tender all new activities as well as all activities
where duplication would not produce major adverse impacts on the project (i.e. adding NGOmonitors).

N o major risks are anticipated for KDP-3's new activities. Facilitators at all levels will all be procured as
individual consultants. KDP-3 procurement for the national, district, and kecamatan facilitators will be
funded through KDP-2 usingexisting TOR, which runs concurrently with KDP-2 for the first two years
of the project. Thus, none of the payroll management firms will be procured usingKDP-3 funds untilthe
project's thirdyear of implementation. The NGO monitors similrly follow a path of extending the firms
already worlung on KDP-2(these are all small contracts valued at $30,000 or less). BPS, the national
statistical agency, will receive a sole source contract for the poverty impact survey work. The indigenous
people's action programs will also be providedon sole-source bases since there are no competitive
suppliers in these very isolated parts of the country: in addition, the current trainers are needed to provide
continuity of assignment.




                                                    - 37 -

                         Table 4.1: Consultant Selection and Procurement Method




          Publications
6.        NGO Provincial Monitoring                     25-30             CQ               1.06             Yes
7.        District Profiles                              1                 ss              0.20             Yes
8.        Joumalists Monitoring                          1                 ss              0.49             Yes
9.        Impact Monitoring                              2                 ss              0.70             Yes
10.       Indigenouspeople's program                     1                 ss              0.40             Yes
1I. LocalRegulation'sbest practice                       1                QBS              0.20             Yes
                                                                                           5.78
12.       District workshops on localregs.                           Govt procedures       6.63            TOR
13.       Training cost for FKs andUPK experts                       Govt procedures       9.06            TOR
14.        Workshops for socialization                               Govt procedures       0.44            TOR

                                                                   ITOTAL                 64.83


4.4 Financial management issues:
A full financialdiscussion was prepared for KDP in2002. A financial management risk assessment is
being prepared for this project that updates the KDP2 and will be available on file. Its findings are
similar to those of the procurement assessment: country risk i s high, but internal financial management i s
acceptable. Because such a large proportion of the project takes place invillages, Annex 4 provides a
more detailed presentation of KDP's financial management and reporting system.

The current N M C under KDP2employs five specialists to support UPKs on financial management and
two specialists for disbursement and payments reconciliation. The project's existing financial
management i s adequate. Inorder to ensure that it would capable of taking on the additional demands for
KDP3, two financial management consultants will be added to the N M C to strengthen the subteam.
5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No significant environmental issues are anticipated. KDPinvestments are very small, and under the
IndonesiaEnvironmental Assessment rules, they all fall below the minimumsize required for a formal
environmental assessment.K D P s negative list consists primarily of activities excluded by Bank
environmental policies, and these have been uniformly respected in the completed subprojects. KDP site
selection also inprinciple rules out villages within demarcated protected areas (inpractice baddata and
fuzzy boundaries often leads to mistakes). KDP3s negative list has beenexpanded to encompasslessons
from experience and from other community development operations.

KDP's operational manuals have been reviewed by a range of environmental and environmental
engineering specialists and they meet all WB standards. However, experience under K D P l showed two


                                                   - 38 -

kinds of environmental risk that can affect community projects. First,communities livinginor near
protectedhabitats will use naturalresources from these areas regardless of formal regulations unless
suitable sanctions are imposed. Thus, some communities in South Sulawesi mined coral for their
roadbeds. In other areas, communities have built roads that verge into protectedforests. The second
environmental risk i s poor placement of water supply sources, which can leadto contaminated water
supplies. The number of cases where this has occurred i s small, but review of their cases shows that they
happen when there are systemic failures in the project's system of engineeringoversight, reporting, and
follow-up.

Inboth types of environmentalmalfeasance, the proposed mitigationandprevention methods are proper
training and monitoringof the supervisingfield engineers. Inthe cases noted above, the supervising
engineers were either disciplined or dismissed. PMD, the project's executing agency, has recently
activated a grant to hire an international environmental specialist to improve the environmental training
and oversight program. Environmental review will assess whether additional sanctions are recommended
for village projects that violate the guidelines. Bank appraisal will assess whether the upgraded KDP-2
engineering training and management program sufficiently reflects lessons learned about environmental
management.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate'?
N o separate EMP report will be prepared.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date of receipt of final draft:
As part of preparationof the new project, a review of experience on the preceeding projects (KDP and
KDP2) was undertaken and the results of that review were incorporated into revised EMPprocedures for
KDP-III( also see Annex 12).

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposedenvironment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NIA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NIA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives. and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
KDPsprimary objectives are to support social development. Three topics are of special concernand,
while they are addressedelsewhere in this PCD at a generic level, deserve special mention inthis section.
These are social issues relation to inclusion, transparencylanti-corruption, and the strategy for local
institutionalreform.

Inclusion. Inclusionof women and the poor have been problematic issues for development projects in
Indonesia, including KDP. The overall participation of women in Indonesiangovernance has generally
dropped as decentralization progresses and traditional social institutions are revived. Nevertheless, KDP's
gender action program has made good progress in some areas, and operational analysis i s also doing a
goodjob identifying new methods for increasing the involvement of women. The introductionof a
separateplanningstream for women has beenparticularly effective, as have project decision malung


                                                    - 39 -

rules that require the physical presence of women in decision meetings. KDP-2 included a competition
for all KDP facilitator groups to advance their best proposals for increasing the involvement of women.
Results from the competition will be brought into KDP-3 operational manual and training programs. GO1
plans to produce a gender action matrix by appraisal.

KDPuses a fairly sophisticated methodof general poverty targeting. Itbegins with the development of a
master poverty list usingthe national expenditure survey and an infrastructure gap assessmentsurvey
assembled by Bappenas. Provinces then select eligible districts from this list, and the districts then
propose eligible subdistricts. The final lists are then re-verified by Bappenas. While there are problems
with both the quality of survey data and some local manipulation of eligibility criteria, by and large this
method appears to be reasonably effective at identifying poor regions. Thus, for example, villages in
non-KDP rural subdistricts are on average 51 k m s away from their district capital, while villages in
KDPs second year of operation were on average 70 kms. away; distance i s in some sense a proxy for
poverty. Similarly, summarizing an 8 year series of poverty measurements that control for time of
measurement, poverty rates in non KDP villages were 22% while KDP villages show an average poverty
rate of 30%.

This overall success, however, diminishes significantly when one examines poverty targeting within
subdistricts and villages. Because K D P s decision makingprocess i s based on public review of proposals,
wealthier and therefore more educated groups are more able to succeed inthe competition. Other
variables that can act against the poor within subdistricts and villages include distance, language
differences, and deep-seatedhierarchies that make the poor unwilling to speak up in public meetings.
Better facilitation can break through some of these barriers, but the ability of local elites to control the
KDPprocess remains a major challenge to the program.

Corruption. Nobody disputes that greatly improved transparency is essential for tacklingIndonesia's
deep-seatedcorruption problem. Surveys carried out under KDP-1show that satisfaction with the
programi s highly correlated with the extent to which people feel they knew about and participated in the
planning and management of the project, significantly more so than whether the project succeededor
failed. Simply promotingtransparency i s a key KDP objective. But promotingtransparency itself has
runinto three major obstacles. The first is relatively expectable: official resistance to disclosure,
particularly of financial information. InKDP-1, resistance was so ingrained that some local governments
actually passedregulations banning the public posting of financial information. KDP-2 adopted a project
transparency policy and MoHa has actively promotedinformationdisclosure through activities such as
releasing audit findings in annual reports, support for press monitoring of subprojects, etc. Nevertheless,
resistance to transparency runs deep.

The second obstacle i s that projects lack a good toolkit for informationdissemination. Most Bank
experience with informationdisclosure has come through the EA process, but a draft EASES review of
disclosure effectiveness in environmental assessments found little evidence that target audiences either
understood or could use the information beingdisclosed. KDPhas also suffered from good intentions not
beingmatchedby operational effectiveness: informationboards usually have too much informationof too
little interest, disseminationmeetings drone on about project achievements rather than providing an
active forum for dialogue, and so on. KDP-2 commissioned a series of studies to assess what
communications media reach different target audiences, but teachingpeople how to use information will
be a problemthat extends beyond the scope of any one project.

The third and perhaps knottiest problemi s that Indonesia'sjudicial system i s unwilling and i s not set up
to receive and act on complaints against government officials. One problemi s that the court officers --



                                                     - 40 -

judges, prosecutors, police etc. themselves are notoriously weak and subject to pressure. But the
structural impediments are equally culpable for Indonesia's continued failure to provide institutional
ways for communities to act on information. Access barriers are high. Procedures for filing complaints
are extremely time-consuming and lack clear guidelines for follow-up, while there i s no regulatory
protocol or agency that protects plaintiffs from physical intimidation. Without an effective institutional
foundation by which villagers can use information, greater transparency will allow social controls on
corruption to work more effectively but it still does not leadto a normalized environment where informal
controls collaborate with a rule-based system of public action.

Workingwithlocalinstitutions. Finally, the research series started with the LocalInstitutions ESW
continues to raise important questions about how development projects can work effectively with
community and local government institutions. Indonesia's ongoing decentralization program and the
accompanying revival of "adat" (customary) institutions and practices add a new level of complexity to
the question. While in general all studies show that people prefer their "own" organizations to
development groups newly formed by government agencies, not all traditional organizations are equally
well received. An illustrativeexperience comes from the parallel Community Empowerment Project in
East Timor, which i s also a national program. Two types of community based councils were established,
one through a democratic electoral process established through a UNregulation endorsedby the
Timorese "shadow" groups, and another that ratified the traditional "councils of elders" which, though
acknowledged to be deeply hierarchical, were believed to be more representative of local culture. Three
years into Timorese independence, the local councils flourish while the councils of elders have all but
melted away as functioning governance bodies in most parts of the country. "Adat" institutions in many
parts of Indonesia already face resistance from community members who see them as espousing sectarian
rather than village-wide interests; for example, women who defy adat role-casting, or, as inNTT, poor
people who do not accept the proposed restrictions on social mobility. The dynamic of local institutional
reformcannot be described in romantic oppositions.

For both traditional and modern institutions of governance inrural Indonesia, lack of alternative channels
of access and redress continue to be central challenges. KDP-2 to some extent addressesthis problem
through its programs to promote legislative monitoring of project implementation, and through the pilot
programs to support barefoot lawyers, both of which will be broadened under KDP-3. But developing a
full fledged system of multiple checks andbalances betweendifferent branches of government andthe
smooth flow of informationbetween different levels of political and civil society i s a long-termreform
project for Indonesia.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
KDPis a participatory project. Primary stakeholders participate through all stages of the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
KDPinvolves extensive NGO consultation. Approximately 53 NGOs already participate inthe project,
40 as independent monitors, 3 as project executors in different kabupaten, and the remainder through
special programs such as the work with widows and the paralegal aid program. More than 500 articles on
KDP have already been publishedin regional newspapers through a "blind"contract that goes to
independent journalists. KDP-3 will expand its civil society outreach program to promote dialogue with
some of Indonesia's large religious organizations, particularly with respect to microfinance.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been providedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Project design does this.


                                                    -41 -

6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes'?
KDP uses the following methods to monitor social development performance:

          Poverty impacts:    sample and panel surveys
          Social inclusion:   NGOmonitoring, case studies
          Empowerment:        panel survey, whon treatment sampling
          Safeguards:         MIS, site reviews, output measurements (Irian)


7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

KDP-2 has a project land acquisition and resettlement policy that has been reviewed by EASES and
LEGEA.Fieldreviews report good implementation of the policy. KDPdoes not involve state powers of
eminent domain at any stage, and land transactions can only take place on a willing-buyer/willing seller
basis. Land acquisition assessments are part of the proposal review process and mustbe approvedby the
district level oversight engineer. Land and resettlement are also recorded in the project's master database
and reviewed duringfield supervision. N o significant adverse impacts from land acquisition or
involuntaryresettlement have ever been reported from a KDP subproject.

As a highly participatory, demand-driven community project, there are few risks of adverse impacts on
indigenous communities and none have ever been reported. Thus, no special action plan to mitigate
adverse impacts will be prepared. However, KDP does have an overall safeguard policy framework
attached to its operating manual whose purpose i s to ensure that project activities provide culturally
appropriate benefits through informed participation. There are opportunities to increase benefits for
vulnerable ethnic minorities, however. KDP's general strategy i s to improve the quality of information
through better facilitation and local-language materials (i.e. support for local language community radio
programming).

However, Papua presents a special challenge to the OPs directive to provide culturally compatible
development benefits. Again, while no adverse impacts from KDPhave ever beenreported from Papua,
benefits have not been where they should be, despite the program's general popularity inthe villages.
KDP-1triedto address the problems of Papua by working with PapuanNGOs andlocalgovernments to
make a special operational manual appropriate to Papua's conditions, andby out-sourcing facilitation one



                                                    - 42 -

very isolated kecamatan to a Church-based NGO.Both actions ledto some improvement, but results
remained suboptimal.

One main constraint on KDP success in Papuahas been the lack of qualified field personnel. Past
government strategies of bringinginmore qualified specialists from elsewhere inIndonesiahave also
become increasingly problematic given the political instability and risingnationalism of the province.To
address this, KDP-2 developed a unique program to recruit and train brightyoung Papuan villagers in a
special training programdesignedjointly with PapuanNGOs and the provincial university. Each
subdistrict participating in KDP can nominate three of its brightest highschool graduates for a nine
month training course in the university, which will be followed by one year of mentoring by the trainers
intheir field stations. Graduates of the programwill becertifiedcivil engineers.

The first year of the programhas seen 230 participants, three times as many as were anticipatedduring
the appraisal of KDP-2 (thisi s because the decentralizationlaws gave Papuan local governments a
windfall, and many of them have already taken up KDP-2 matching grant option). Initial assessments are
very positive. Appraisal of KDP-3 will assess the sustainability of the model, which at present i s too
expensive. Options include private sector and local government co-financing, or concentrating on
structured follow-through for the recent graduates.

F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
One objective of this program i s to facilitate the Banks exit strategy from direct support of the KDP
program so that it can move towards programmatic involvement. This has been delayed becauseof
several factors described in the Indonesia CAS, includingthe decentralization turbulence, concern over
Indonesia's fiduciary environment, and the usefulness of having sufficient time to familiarize local
governments and villagers with a sigificantly different way of doing village development.

KDP-2's matchinggrant pilot program demonstrated that the project is sufficientlypopular with local
governments that they will make a significant contribution to it from their district budget (DAU).
However, not all districts are equally wealthy. The central government recently issuedguidelines for
onlending that provide a subsidy to poorer kabupaten. KDP-3 will be adopting this formula for its
matching grant.

The sustainability of subproject investments is already well-documented through ex post reviews, which
have found that 85% of the village infrastructure i s in good to very good five years after completion.
Institutionalbenefits and longer term spillovers from KDP to non KDP activities are harder to measure,
butthere are anecdotal signs fromsupervision and NGO monitoringreports that these are substantial.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                     Risk                         Risk Rating                Risk Mitigation Measure
FromOutputsto Objective
                                                      H           Follow-on support keyed to adoption

                                                      S           Supervision by oversight NGO
and managers insist on strict application
of eligibility criteria
Externalautonomy of revolving fund                    M           Operational Manual pre-condition
management



                                                     -43-

Locally available human resources                                  Outsourcing to NGOs and banks
Matching grants do not materialize                                 Refusing service to the districts that do not
                                                                  honor agreements
Component 4: Data collection quality i s                          TOR and contract will specify on-site
bad                                                               supervision


FromComponentsto Outputs
Component 1:Matchinggrant formula                     M           Working group within BAPPENAS and MoF
achieved
Component 2: Regulations inadequate                   M           Consultations with specialists and local
                                                                  governments underway
Component 3: Component detached to                    M           Written assignment of executing agency from
separate agency                                                   BAPPENAS and Home Affairs
Corruptionrisks:                                      M
                                                                   Usingblock grants and independent document
Block Grants: Minimal risks are                                   counterflows minimizes risk.
expected to affect the block grant                                 Publicallydisclosed audits provide an
transfer.                                                          additional check. Enduse oversight remains
                                                                   vulnerable.
Village Planning Capacity: Collusion
risks exist with suppliers; nepotismwith                           Public accountability for all procurement limits
within-village selection                                           supplier collusion. Open elections for FD
                                                                   positions limits favorite son choices
Implementation Support: Mainrisks lie
with procurement and with company                                  Main mechanismhas been to switch to direct
transfers to field consultants                                     contracting of consultants, with standard
                                                                   monthly payments transferred through payroll
Micro-finance    -- Main risks are collusion
among bidders and forced partnerships                              Disclosure rules will ensure competitition

Studies -- Mainriski s procurement                                 Close monitoringby WB
collusion and substitution of personnel
Overall Risk Rating                                   M            A more detailed fiduciary risk assessmentis
                                                                   provided in Annex 11
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris M (Modest Risk), N Jegligible or Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Any project in Indonesiahas the potential for controversy. Risks in the popular press are those linked to
Indonesia's overall debt situation and the likelihood that there will be some reports of subproject
corruption.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. The Borrower shall adopt and apply a Project Manual acceptable to the AssociationBank.




                                                    - 44 -

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]


 1. The Borrower shall maintainthe PMDSecretariat untilthe completion of the project with terms of
    reference, facilities, staff, and a Project Manager at all times acceptable to the AssociationBank.
 2. Audits shall be carried out in accordance with BPKPs audit manual and in accordance with TOR
    agreed with the AssociationBank.
 3. B y October 31in each year, informeach Kabupaten participating the project that all auditing
    activities for sub projects are to be carried out exclusively by auditors appointedby PMDin
    accordance with the manual and terms of reference acceptable to the AssociationBank.
4. A PJOK will be appointedby no later than November 30 ineach year preceding the project fiscal
    year.
 5. The Borrower will cause each Kabupaten participating nthe project to appoint a Kabupaten
    Coordination Team by no later than December 31st of each year precedingthe project fiscal year.
 6. The Borrower shall select a banlung institution acceptable to the Association to providepayroll
    services.
 7. The Borrower shall select project kecamatans from among the borrower's 35% poorest kecamatans
    based on Susenas and PODES data.
 8. The Borrower shall provide the AssociationBank ranking the financial capability of each kabupaten
    participating in the project, by October 31,2003.
 9. EachBappeda will annually select project kecamatans from the PMDmaster list.
10. Each provincialBappeda shall furnish the annual consolidated list of proposed kecamatans to the
    PMD Secretariat and to the Association by no later than November 30 for each year for the following
   Fiscal Year.
11. The annual approved consolidatedlist of participating kecamatans shallbe made available to the
    public free of charge as of December 31in each year.
12. The Borrower through the relevant bupatis and camats shall issue by October 31 in each year public
    informationdisclosing to villagers and their representatives all administrative, financial, social,
    procedural, technical, and environmental aspects of the project.
13. The Project Manual shall be available free of charge at the kecamatan office.
14. The Borrower will provide Kecamatan Planning Grants in accordance with conditions agreed with
    the AssociationBank.
15. The Borrower will provide Kecamatan Block Grants in accordance with conditions agreed with the
    AssociationBank
16. The Borrower shall ensure that prior to carryingout sub-project works, the Kabupaten engineer will
    have completed a technical review of each subproject to ensure that all financial and technical
    specifications have been complied with.
17. The Borrower will ensure that each infrastructure subproject shall receive a completion certificate
    from the kabupaten engineer.
18. The Borrower will ensure that UPKs will recover amounts disbursed under the grant in accordance
    with community procedures in the even of a finding of unsatisfactory performanceexcept for cases
    of force majeure.
19. The Borrower will minimize the acquisition of land or assets and, where unavoidable, will
    implement the project's Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines.
20. The Borrower will avoid or minimizecultural, social, and economic effects on IsolatedVulnerable
    People, and it will involve them through a process of informedparticipation to ensure that project
    benefits reach them in culturally appropriate ways.
21. The Borrower shall ensure that information on complaints received by the PMD Secretariat and their
    resolution is published annually in a local and national newspaper.
22. Studies under Part Ewill be carried out following terms of reference acceptable to the


                                                     - 45 -

    AssociationIBank.
23. The Borrower will ensure that at least one independent nongovernmental organizations employed to
    monitor project activities in each province where the project is implemented.
24. Project monitoringwill monitor project indicators.
25. PMD will provide an Annual Report on the implementation and achievements of the kecamatan
    grants, including findings from the monitoringand evaluation studies. These reports will be reviewed
    with the AssociationBank and made publically available.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
   1.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the
         start of project implementation.
   1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
      project implementation.
   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
      quality.
   4. The following items are lackingand are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):




1. Compliancewith Bank Policies
   1.This project complies with all applicableBank policies.
02.The     following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bank policies.




   Scott E. Guggenheim                     Maria Teresa Sena                      Andrew D. Steer
   Team Leader                             Sector ManagerlDirector                Country ManagerlDirector




                                                  - 46 -

                                 Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                         INDONESIA: Third KecamatanDevelopment Project
                                  Key Performance              Data Collection Strategy
                                      Indicators                                               CriticalAssumptions
                            Sector Indicators:                Sector/ country reports:      [fromGoal to Bank Mission)
Reducingpoverty             % poor                            CAS, PRSP                     No gaps betweenmacro and
                                                                                            project objectives
Improvinglocal governance   Satisfaction with leadership      Surveys                       Macroeconomic staility
                            rises                                                           :ontinues and investment
                                                                                            Aimate trends reverse.


Project Development         Outcome/ Impact                   Project reports:              [fromObjective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Component A: Kecamatan      Number of villages with plans Annual report                     Favorablelocal economic
Grants: Cost-effective,     completed                                                       :onditions
community basedinvestmenl
plans are developedand      Cost and coverage of village      Central database, audits      Continuedimplementation of
implemented                 infrastructure built                                            local autonomy laws

                            Villagers able to meetFM&D Central database                     Lack of widespreadconflict
                            audit standards
                                                              Audits, corruption study repor
Component B:                Regulations required by law       PMD master registry
Institutionalizing          22 are issues
Community Empowerment:
                            % of poor and women               M I S
                            involved inplanning,
                            execution. andmaintenance

                            Villagers aware of rights         Survey
Component C: Micro          % increasein number of            UPKreports, impact study      Effective loan use by
finance support: Sound      villagers and low-income                                        borrowers
community owned             borrowers servedby UPKs
microfinance institutions
(UPKs)increasescope and     Percentageincreasein the          UPKsupervision reports,       Absenceof widespread
                            number of UPKsclassified as       database                      economic crisis
                            fiancially and institutionally
                            soundbasedon standardrating
                            system

                            Percentageof UPKs with            M&Ereports                    Enforcementof projectrisk
                            routine accessto technical                                      assessment rules
                            assistance and sypervision
                            through service associations
                            and extrema1servicde
                            providers.
Component D: Impact         Poverty impact study              Report
Evaluation                  completed
                            IRRstudycompleted                 Report
                            Governance survey completed Report




                                                         - 47 -

                                    Key Performance             Data Collection Strategy
                                        Indicators                                            Critical Assumptions
                              Output Indicators:              Project reports:              from Outputsto Objective)
2omponent:
ComponentA: Community
dock grants

Clommunities are able to      Quality of plans                Annual report
'ormulate and implement
levelopment plans

Clommunities can carry out    Categorization of village       NMC report
nfrastructure assessmentsand infrastructure on pre-defined
irioritize needs             ranking criteria

zommunities can access        Increaseinrequeststo public     NMCreport
echnical services             institutions for service
                              delivery during UDKP

<educedcorruption             Greater output                  Eonuption study

2omponentB: Commun..y
Smpowerment

3inding outlines for 13       Comprehensivereport on          Reporton existing perdas
mplementing Regulations      existing regulations (perdas)
                             basedon review

                              National model for 13 perdas    Repodperdas
                              developed

                              Qualityof perdasand             4nnual report
                              consultationprocess

iupporting structure for BPDs Numberltypelquality of          rraining plans, reports, pre
                              training procided to BPDs,      mdpost training evaluations
                              FADSand DPRDs

                              kunberlqualityltype of civic
                              .nformationand education
                              xograms delivered

                              Yumberlgenderlprofile of
                              iersons trained

                              Skillsimprovement intrainees Surveys regarding skills,
                                                              ittitudes andpractices of
                              Clhangesof attitude and         rainees and villagers
                              iractices by institutional
                              ,epresentativesand villagers

nter-village forums           mplementing instructions        'roject database, MoHA files
                              roduced by MoHA
                                                              rTMC database


                                                        - 48 -

                              Number of representatives1
                              villages participating inpublic Supervision
                              budgeting

                               Number of interactive village     M I S
                               activities, e.g. cross audits,
                               workshops

                               Quality of perdas
Zomponent C:Microfinance
upport
'articipating UPKs have        Operate inareas with              Feasibility studies      )calproject stakeholdersand
iotential to becomefinancially sufficient unmet credit demand                             inagers insist on strict
md institutionally sustainable and investmentopportunity                                  'plicationof eligibility
                                                                                          iteria
                               Owners and local stakeholders M&Ereports
                               willing to comply with project
                               microfinance rules

                               Clear ownership                   M&Ereports, UPK
                                                                 supervision reports
                               Seedcapital matches               M&Ereports
                               break-evenpoint of Rpsw. 150
                               million
'rudential UPKcapital and      Financial and credit              M&Ereports, UPK          ctemalautonomy of
:redit management              information systemmeets            supervision reports     volving fundmanagement
                               project supervision standards
                               Credit decisions basedon          UPKsupervision reports
                               borrower el;igibility, business
                               feasibility, and repayment
                               capacity
                               Direct and transparent            UPKsupervision reports
                               borrower-lender relationship
                               for credit application, analysis,
                               agreement,and supervision.
                               Good or improving loan            UPKsupervision reports
                               portfolio quality andcapital
                               growth.
JPK associationseffective      Association offices are            M&Ereports              rtemal autonomy of
                               equipped and staffed                                       volving fund management
                               UPKfees cover operating            M&Ereports              scally available human
                               costs                                                      sources
                               Associations procure extemal M&Ereports
                               services that meetUPKneeds
                               Association able to carry out      M&Ereports
                              UPKsupervision
jystems for UPKtechnical       Institutionaldevelopment           M&Ereports, UPK         apacity and willingness to
issistanceand supervision      plans and needs assessmentfor supervision reports          iy fees andfor services
ffective                       eachUPKare available.

                               UPKsassistedandsupervised M&Ereports, UPK
                               at leastonce a month, and          supervision reports
                               monthly performance reports
                               and ratings available



                                                             - 49 -

                          rechnical assistance and    M&Ereports
                          supervisionfunctions
                          ransferred to UPK
                          mociations
Project Components/       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:             (from Componentsto
Sub-components:           :omponent)                                               Outputs)

Block grants              278.9million$               Annual reports               Agreement on matching grant
                                                                                   formula
[mplementation Support    39.9 million$               Quaterly reports             AP for local government sdtaff
                                                                                   materializes and is paid on
                                                                                   time, infull
Community Empowerment     41.8million$                 Annual report               Contracting succeeds
                                                      Final draft reviews
Microfinance              8.7 million$                 Annual reports
                                                       Monitoring reports
Monitoring andEvaluations  3.1 million$                Quarterly and Final reports Contracting succeeds,
                                                                                   interpretive quality i s good




                                                   - 50 -

                                   Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                           INDONESIA:Third Kecamatan Development Project


          The development purpose of KDP-3 i s to reduce poverty. Its overall means for
achieving this are by providing investment resources to support productive proposals
developed through community planning. KDP-3 also supports the development of responsive
institutional structures that enable bottom-up planning and provide for development oversight
at the local level. Decision making i s left to the communities themselves, transparently and
responsibly. All important decisions are made in community wide meetings. Monitoring of
activities i s undertaken by many actors, including the legislatures and NGOs, as well as
independent teams selected by communities themselves. Special dialogues will be conducted
among all stakeholders in KDP-3.

          KDP-3 will provide two years of additional support to the approximately 2,000
kecamatans that have or will have successfully graduated from KDP-1or 2. (A limited number
of additional kecamatans can be added duringannual programming reviews). Activities that
will be supported underKDP-3 include:

          i.buildingorrepairingbasicproductiveinfrastructure,suchassmallroads,
               irrigation infrastructure, clean water supply systems, etc;
         ...
          ii.buildingorrepairingsocialinfrastructure,suchasschoolbuildings,clinics,etc;
        111.   training for revolving funds management;
         iv. assistance for the development of district and subdistrict capacities, specifically
               technical training inadministrative drafting;
          v. carryingout a number of carefully designed pilotprograms to provide special
               assistanceto disadvantaged or marginalizedgroups.

Community Grants -- The main activity in KDP-3 will be the construction of economic and
social infrastructure that i s desired and neededby the communities. The selection of
activities i s open except for items specifically excluded through the project's negative list. All
assistancei s given as a grant to the village by the govemment.Criteria for activities include:

        0      Can be undertaken by the village, with locally available technical assistance
        0      Technically and financially feasible
        0      A public need
        0      Gives benefits to the community, especially the poor inthe village

         KDP funds can be used for infrastructure such as roads or irrigation, for social
services such as schools and clinics, or for training. Unlike in KDP-2, KDP3 will not support
economic activities except for village-level revolving funds managed by women's groups,
although the project will provide special training for the revolving fund management units
(UPKs). Funds also cannot be used for items on the project's negative list, or for land purchase
of any lund.


          The kecamatans receive an allocation from the project, which i s anticipated to be
between 500 million to 1.0billion rupiah per year, depending on their population. In KDP-3,
distirct government's must provide 30, 60, or 80% of this amount as a matching grant using



                                                       -51 -

their own budgetary resources. The different amounts are based on a standard weighting
formula based on poverty that i s issued by Bappenas.

                      Table A2.1: KDP-3grant amount allocationcriteria
/Java                        /OffJava                         ]Size of Grant
L>50,000                      >25,000                          1.O billion rupiah                I



 25,000-50,OO                 15,000-25,000                   750 million rupiah
 0
 <25,000                     1<15,000                         1500million rupiah

          Women's savings and loan activities are limited to 10 million rupiah per village (if
there are many villages, then there must be competition or each village will receive somewhat
less so that the maximum i s 10% of the total allocation).        The standard allocation i s not
competed for but it will also be limited to 15 million rupiah or 15% of the total grant to the
kecamatan. All other proposals are competed for.

         Before the proposals are discussed at the Subdistrict Decision Making Forum, they
undergo a verification process done by a team of selected citizens with advice from the
consultant. The team i s selected by the Subdistrict Manager and the Empowerment Facilitator,
and their technical expertise i s verified by the Management and Technical Facilitator.
Verification i s undertaken of each proposal on the basis of technical feasibility, financial
feasibility, and criteria. The team does not determine ranlungs or priorities. If there were any
proposals found to be unfeasible, these would be discussed with the communities at the time
of the visit, so that the proposal could be modified or at least the community could understand
the reason for rejection by the facilitators. However,       while facilitators can recommend
rejection, the communities must still make the decision themselves.

         Subproject rules for procurement, financial management, technical oversight, and
reporting to government and to the Bank are provided through the project's Operational
Manual. The Manual is re-issued annually as part of each year's overall performance review
and programming for the coming stage.

Local Government Capacity Development -- KDP-3 develops the community capacities
developed under KDP-1 and 2 by strengthening the capacities of the local government
institutions created through the decentralization program. This will take place through two
mechanisms. First, KDP-3 will promote the adoption of the implementing instructions (perdus
) required by Law 22. But once they are adopted, a great deal of training is needed to
familiarize officials and community members with their mode of operation, rights, duties, and
capacity for promoting village interests. KDP-3 will also provide a limited amount of training
to the technical staff of district governments, including the district parliaments, who are
concerned with village development.

Revolving:Funds -- The project includes an activity to improve the capacity of subdistircts to
manage the revolving funds (UPKKJEPs) created through KDPl and 2. However, KDP-3 does
not create new microfinance organizations and does not add investment funds to their existing
capital.

By Component:




                                                   - 52 -

 ProjectComponent 1 US$278.90million
                       -
Kecamatan Grants -- This component consists of two main activities: the provisionof block grants that
communities allocate against proposals agreed inthe Inter-VillageDecisionForum (UDKPFAD); and
support for bottom-up planning in villages. The block grants can be used for any productive purpose
except for items prohibted by the project's negative list, which has been agreed with the World Bank and
i s incorporated into the project's operating manual. Support for bottom-up planning includes providing
and training social and technical village facilitators, village cross-visits, and village operationalcosts for
planning and management.

ProjectComponent2 US$41.80 million
                       -
Communitv Capacitv Building-- The core of this component consists of a comprehensive training
program for village and subdistrict councils, administrative officers, and representatives involvedin KDP
management. Training will be provided in a number of forms: through regonal workshops, from
specialized consultants, or NGOs, and from a specially prepared program of cross-visits and study
tours.The program will train them in principles and procedures of local governance, with a special focus
on transparency, accountability, and public dissemination of information. To promote greater use of
capacities, the program will also support a broad program of community-baswed development
monitoring. At the kabupaten level, the project will support training in technical drafting and project
monitoring for the district parliaments and local government. This component also includes continuation
of KDP-2's pilot programs to support female-headed households (Pekka), training in conflict resolution,
the special program for Papua, programs for legal services to KDP villagers, a pilot program for cultural
heritage.

ProjectComponent3 US$8.70 million
                       -
UPK Revolving Funds Sumort -- This component i s described indetail in the PAD text. It consists of
consultant services to train and supervise the revolving funds (UPKs) formed under KDPl and 2.
Provincial or national organizations such as private banks or NGOs experiencedwith microcredit will
provide on-site training inbasic principles of sound microfinance.

ProjectComponent4 US$39.90 million
                       -
Implementation Sumort -- This component provides technical consultants to support the national,
provincial and district governments. The consultants are organizedinto; (a) a NationalManagement
Team that manages technical planning and oversight, including strategic planning and annual
programming, budget oversight, complaints management, oversight reporting, and training management;
(b) approximately 14regional management unitsthat each cover 1-2provinces that consist of an
operations, training, and financial management unit; and (c) district support units that include technical
and social specialists and their support structure. Consultants inKDP3 are hiredas individual specialists,
but the government i s supportedthrough firms that help manage contracts, payroll, andprinting.This
component also cover the overall management, coordinations, monitoring and supervisions at national,
provincials, districts and subdistricts levels by GO1staff to be financed by GO1counterpart funds.

ProjectComponent5 US$3.10 million
                       -
Monitoring and Evaluation and Studies -- KDP performance i s reviewed through a comprehensive
monitoringand evaluation programthat includes both internal monitoring systems and independent
reports on performance. The details of the KDP monitoring system are providedinthe text of this PAD.
KDPs internal M&Esystemincludes qualitative and well as quantitative studies. External monitoringi s
provided through provincially based NGOs and by independent journalists who visit KDPfield sites to
public reports in local and national newspapers. Two statistical studies in KDP3 will track the cumulative
impacts of KDP on governance and poverty reduction.




                                                     - 53 -

Project Component6 US$2.40 million
                      -
IncrementalOperating Costs -- This component provides support for the Ministry of Home Affairs'
National KDPSecretariat so that they can visit KDP field sites. It also includes the cost of annual
workshops with local government officials to review KDPsperformance with respect to the
implementation of the local regulations on village autonomy. This component will also support two
cross-country study tours for govenrment policy makers and selected senior KDP management
consultants to visit other innovative community development projects.




                                                  - 54 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                             INDONESIA:Third Kecamatan Development Project


                         Project Cost By Component
A. 1. Kecamatan Grants for Infrastructure                                                      240.40                12.70                253.10
    2. Kec Grants for planning                                                                   24.60                 1.30                  25.90
B.Community Capacity Building                                                                    39.70                 2.10                  41.80
C. UPK Microfinancesupport                                                                        8.20                 0.40                   8.60
D.Implementationsupport                                                                          35.90                 4.00                  39.90
E.Monitoring andEvaluation and Studies                                                            2.90                 0.20                   3.10
F. IncrementalOperatingCosts                                                                      2.30                 0.10                   2.40
Total BaselineCost                                                                             354.00                20.80                374.80
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                            0.00                 0.00                   0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                              0.00                 0.00                   0.00
                                         Total Project Cost:                                   354.00                20.80                 374.80
                                                               Front-endfee                                            2.04                    2.04
                                   Total Financing Required                                    354.00                22.84                 376.84

Financing Plan                                    ________________ USD
                                                        Local                Foreign              Total
                                                                             Million     _______________
Borrower                                                119.3                    7.7                 127.0
IBm                                                     191.9                    12.3              204.30
IDA                                                      42.7                    2.8                  45.5
Total Financing                                         354.0                   22.8                 376.8

Notes:
B.Reflects the total cost of the KecamatanFailitors and training needs
C. Includes technical assistance,publication costs, administrative support and Go1Implementation
support
1/Includingpricieand physical contingencies
   1
    Identifiabletaxes and duties are 0 (US$" and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 362.3 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio i s 68.95%
   of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                  - 55 -

                               Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                          INDONESIA:Third Kecamatan Development Project



Summaryof Benefitsand Costs:
Because of KDPs open menus, detailed cost-benefit calculations cannot be made ex-ante. Experience
from the main investment types in KDP 1and the VIP projects displayed IRRs ranging from 22%-90%
with a mean of 35-40%. Indirectbenefits are not counted. Calculations for KDP-2 assume an average
IRRof 25%. The possibility of localizedfailures is includedthrough the conservative benefit returns
presented in this annex.

    i.kecamatanandvillagefacilitatorsprovideavaluableservice(informationsharing,morepeople
         involvedinpublic decision-making, higher ownership/maintenance to justify their cost);
    ii.releaseofthegrantswilloccurontime--essentialbecauseoftheseasonalityoftherural
   ...   calendar;
   111.  open menus do not distort choice or contaminate other public investment programs;
   iv. equipment needed for infrastructure construction i s available in local markets;
    v. internal markets remain relatively undistorted.

         It i s not easy to quantify KDP's aggregate impacts because its most important objectives focus on
the systemic rules and incentives that guide local governance in Indonesia as much as any one
investment, and these require longer term benefit estimates. KDP's open menus also make it impossible
to know with precision which investment proposals will actually receive funding. Therefore, the
cost-benefit analysis proceeds from a SWOT (Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, Threats) framework.
The concluding section on benefits summarizes some of the specific economic return data based on
experience under KDP-1.

InstitutionalAspects (SWOT)

         Strengths of the project design are (i) open menus; (ii) highdegree of transparency; (iii)
                                                the                  the
use of traditional institutions to organize decision-making; (iv) the contracting of privatelyrecruited and
managed facilitators to share information and encourage free choice; and (v) the mandatory contribution
of distirct matching grant funds, which demonstrates ownership. Movingfrom sectoral to cross-sectoral
menus allows for a better fit between end users perceivedneeds and project delivery. Indonesia's existing
bottom-up planning system already suffers badly from the fact that community investment decisions are
primarily driven by the central budgets of different technical agencies, regardless of need. Decentralizing
funds to communities and allowing them to match their resources over abroadrange of expressedand
negotiatedpriorities allows them to build more useful infrastructure. K D P s decision-malung process
forces communities to ration their resources. It also leads to better maintenance and thus a longer
economic life for the investment. KDP's flexible design allows the project's total size to match resources
and capacities. KDP-3s improveddesign carries forward reforms started under KDP-1and 2 by
providing an institutional foundation for the community institutions developedthrough the first two
programs and reinforced by the national decentralizationpolicy.

         Weaknesses - include the lack of technical sophistication, the loss of economies of scale and
network programming, and the risks of elite capture over time. Districts pressed for resources under
decentralizationmay also decide to reduce investment and services to KDP villages by way of
compensation, thus reducing program sustainability still further. Giving more control to local decision


                                                     - 56 -

making increases the likelihood of "not in my backyard" decision malung, despite the national benefits
that could accrue from unpopular decisions. The new project's design also runs a greater risk of local
government capture than the original KDP did because of the greater scope for DPRD and local
government involvement than was allowed under KDP-1.

         Strengths - of issuingthe perdas requiredby Law 22 are that they provide the legally required
basis for local government. (Article 22 invalidated the former structures). Programcontinuity is also an
important strength of the new project since villagers can increasingly internalize and normalize
expectations about revenue flows to make decisions over. Introducingthe matching grant component
provides a channel for expandingcoverage and normalizingKDP approaches in an uncomplicated way.
The new project's design brings the microfinance institutions back into line with best practices and also
provides the future candidates for the proposed Sustaining Microfinance Project with advance training
and supervision, though not loan resources.

         Weaknesses - of the system are twofold: the small size of the infrastructures built and their lack
of linkage to district planning; and the susceptibility of the project to elite capture. The new project also
faces a riskier overall environment, particularly given the still unclear mandate, resources, and
responsibilities of the newly empowered district governments. Decentralization across Indonesiahas also
ledto drops in women's participation which a more centralized project structure could address more
effectively.

         Strengths Outweigh Weaknesses -Social and economic benefits from the project (infrastructure
for the poor, improving the match between investments and priorities, better maintenance, skills transfer)
are considered to outweigh the risks of low sustainability and lack of integration into district management
plans, especially since these trends already show signs of diminishingas KDP becomes more familiar to
local government. Furthermore, the project's low costs and highcounterpart contributions by villagers
outweigh possible benefits of scale and better technology that couldbe gained by vesting
decision-malung in more specialized technical branches of government.

         Opportunities - KDPprovides two excellent opportunities for improving village development
programs. Government policy now promotes the KDP design as a foundation of its national poverty
reduction strategy but because of the crisis it lacks the resources to implement it in more than a small
number of locations without external assistance. Second, KDP-2's unique system of direct payment to
facilitators potentially offers a very large cost saving to abroad range of community development
programs inIndonesia. With costs for facilitators averaging 20-25% across a broadrange of community
project types (urban poverty, basic education), reducing TA management costs by approximately 50%
will amount to a large saving for the government (or else it will stimulate contractors to start providinga
service for which development projects will be willing to pay).

         Threats -The three major threats facing KDP-3 have already been discussed elsewhere in this
PAD: (a) elite capture of benefits; (b) opposition by private contractors; (c) capture and distortion by
district governments. Technical "threats" integral to the project design itself hinge almost entirely around
the caliber, training, and management of the facilitators. Indonesiaretains a strongtendency of "guided"
hiring.The project's TA apparatus will quickly be neutralized and ruinedby collusive hiringand
management unless the TA can remain autonomous.

Summary of benefitsandcosts

         Individual villages and project proponents choose their own subprojects from a completely open
menu. Nevertheless, some 50% of villages choices have been for all-weather roads and bridges. The


                                                      - 57 -

project's IRRreview showed a weighted return of 68% to these investments. Gains come from lowered
transportation costs, higher farmgate prices, and the growth in local businessespreviously not viable.

        Sample calculations for KDP confirm these estimates but with highvariance at the high end, with
several bridges and road links exceeding IRRs of 80%. Cost savings for transporting goods in the sample
dropped by 75%. Time spent traveling was cut by between 66%-80%, and average increase intraffic on
the roads or bridges was above 60%. Even these are conservative estimates because methods do not count
benefits such as lowered infant and maternal mortality, better school attendance, and lower consumer
prices.

        Case studies didnot confirm the hypothesis that people who previously earned a livingby
carrying goods to market would not find newjobs; in all cases studied this social cost did not materialize,
even despite Indonesia's ongoing economic crisis.




                                                   - 58 -

                                    Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                        INDONESIA: Third Kecamatan Development Project




TotalFlnanc@ Requind($nillion)          I                                    I
ProjectGmponents
A KecmtanGrantsInfrastructureandplanning     63.4     76.1  63.4   63.4  12.7 278.9
B. C i " i t y CapaatyBldg.                  10.1     8.8   10.4    8.7  3.8  41.8
C.UPKMimfinanesupports                        3.9     0.8   3.2     0.8  0.0   8.7
D. ImplemntationSupprt                        4.6     4.6   10.3   10.3  10.2 39.9
E. Monitoring&EvaluationandStudies            0.0     0.4    1.6    0.5  0.5   3.1
E IncremntalOperationCosts                    0.5     0.5   0.5     0.5  0.5   2.4
Frontendfee                                   2.1                              2.1
                                             84.6     91.2  89.3   842   27.6  376




bamingArrangemnts($nillion)
IBRWIDA                                      56.7     58.9  61.0   55.9  17.3 249.8
Ci3VXlllEIlt
    Ckntral                                   4.5     4.5   4.5     4.5  4.5  22.5
    District                                 15.8     18.8  16.3   16.3  4.3  71.5
Beneficiaries                                 7.5     9.0   7.5     7.5   1.5 33.0

TotalProjectcosts                       I    84.6     91.2  89.3   84.2  27.6 376.9




                                               - 59 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                       INDONESIA: Third Kecamatan Development Project

Procurement
 1. Procurement of goods andworks will be carriedout inaccordance with the WorldBanks Guidelines
     on Procurement-Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August
     1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Procurement of services will be done in accordance with
     the World Banks Guidelines on Selectionand Employmentof Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers
     (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002).

2.        The selection of consultants will use the World Bank Standard Request for Proposal, Selection of
Consultants dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999, and the associated Standard Forms of
Contract.

3.        KDP-3 i s a follow-on project to KDP-2 intended to add two more years to the same system, so
virtually all of the basic design i s the same. Over eighty percent of the BanWAssociation's financing i s
for grants under beneficiary sub-projects procured by the villages in accordance with agreed procedures.
Under these procedures, procurement i s managed by villagers usingforms and procedures that were
appraised by the Association and have been supervised in the field by senior Bank procurement and
financial management specialists. For the sub district grants, the key to minimizing leakage and collusion
lies in the extent to which social controls can function. These controls are explained in detail under
Annex 11.The agreed procedures are containedin the Project Manual which are the same as for KDP-1
and KDP-2. These procedures have been found to be satisfactory.

4.        The project budget structure (GOI+WB) covers 5 major components and a category to cover the
national government's incremental operating costs:

          Component 1:        Kecamatan Block grants                                $278.9 million
          Component 2:        Development community and local government            $41.8 million
          Component 3:        Support to village revolving funds                    $8.7 million
          Component 4:        Implementation support                                $39.9 million
          Component 5:        Studies, evaluation, and special aprograms            $3.1 million
          Component 6:        Incremental operating costs                           $2.4 million

5.        Other than grants, the only other procurement actions under the project are for consulting
services. Over 90% of the consultants procured for KDP3 are individual consultants providing
facilitation services. A detailed description oif their functions i s providedinthe text of the PAD and in
the PAD for KDP-2. Services provided by the facilitation consultants are for technical and social
facilitation; the technical consultants provide engineering oversight and review, while the social
facilitators are responsible for promotingthe participatory and transparency objectives of the project.
Every kecamatan in this national project must have at least one social and one technical facilitator in
place. Kecamatanfacilitators are managed by district level technical and social facilitators. Both report to
the national consultant team (also procured as individual consultants), which has established 14 regional
offices. Individualconsultants in the national and regional offices provide the following core services:
database management, training, technical oversight, monthly reporting, and planning.

6.        KDP-2 introduced a new system for procuringconsultant management services. Its key feature
lay in the (competitive) individual recruitment of the kecamatan facilitators, and a payroll management
system. The main rationale for this strategy of hiringindividual consultants at all levels i s that no firms


                                                     - 60 -

were needed to provide individual consultants since the pool already exists; thus, the service being
contracted i s to invoice and pay field staff. A separate note summarizing the detailed functioning of this
proposed management system was attached to the KDP-2 PAD and i s available inproject files. The
administrative support and payrollmanagement firms were selected competitively (QCBS). These firms
provided administrative support and services to manage invoicing and the payroll for Kecamatan
Facilitators.

7.       This system was tested duringKDP-2 start-up and, though not without startup problems, was
found to be satisfactory and significantly better than the more traditional firm-based system used for
KDP-1. Savings to government fromnot having to pay company overheads are conservatively estimated
to be about $10 million. Given the success of the direct payment trial, under KDP-3 all of the facilitators
will be switched to the direct payment scheme.

8.       KDP-3 will overlap with KDP-2 for two years (of 4) and, by design, and will be taking place in
the same districts. All of the facilitators at every level will switch over to the direct payment system.
Travel costs are also standard and can be channeled through the payroll manager rather than having to
pass through a firm. Each company thus will only be providing administrative management.

9.       Procuring entirely new management contracts for the same services to work in the same places
would be extremely disruptive, as well as confusing in the field. Therefore, the main management
contracts will be negotiated amendments to the existing management services contracts under KDP-2. N o
new contracts are needed for this service untilthe thirdyear of KDP-3. Thus, total incremental amounts
for the four amendments are relatively small: $0.84 million for contract management for National
Management Consultants, and $1.89 million for three contracts for kecamatan and district facilitators.
Switching all of the national and district facilitators onto the same payroll system as that used for the
kecamatan facilitators will further reduce costs to the government significantly.

10.      All other contracts will be selected competitively, with the following exceptions. The National
Statistical Office (BPS) i s uniquely qualified to carry out large scale sample surveys and impact
monitoring. The other sole-source is to support the indigenous people's program for Papua, where
continuity with the pre-existing trainingprogrami s essential (and there are no alternative consultants for
these services). Other contracts for firms include about 30 very small contracts to provincial NGOs for
approximately $25,000-$35,000 each (final numbers will depend on how many provinces participate in
KDP3).

11.      A Procurement Capacity Assessment Report Updute(PCAR) was conducted for the project and i s
available on project files. It updates the KDP-2 assessment,which covered legal issues, project cycle
management, organization and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, the
general procurement environment, and overall risk assessmentin accordance with the instructions issued
by OCSPR.

12.      The assessmenthas rated the proposedproject's procurement risk as "medium" for the
following reasons: (i)  this is a thirdphaseproject; performance under the first two phaseshave generally
satisfactory; (ii) the project does not involve any large or complicated packages. Nevertheless,
Indonesia's general procurement environment i s weak and collusive practices have been found in several
contracts.

Actions taken to mitigate procurement risk in KDP-3 are given below:




                                                      -61  -

             Employ three addition procurementspecialistsin PMD.
             Enhanceddisclosure of informationto further enable civil society oversight.
             The procurement planhas been and an updatedprocurement plan will be requiredfor each
             new fiscal year before disbursements can be initiated.
             A Project Operations Manual has been developed duringpreparation. This manual contains
             a section on procurement which covers procurement procedures, procurement methods, and
             reporting requirements. The manual was reviewed duringappraisal. The project Loadcredit
             Agreement will specify that all changes to the manual must be approvedby the Association.
             Procurement supervision will be conducted every six months and the procurement plan will
             be monitored on an on-going basis.
             To enhance procurement capacity of the villages, procurement training will be conducted
             as part of the capacity buildingfor project management in all participating villages.
             All contracts for consulting assignments for firms will be prior reviewed.
             All TOR for individual consultants will be prior reviewed.
             Use of competitively selected consulting firms to coordinate invoicing, and payroll
             management. These firms will not handle payments directly but will prepare all evaluations
             and paperwork for PMD signature and release of funds.

11.Procurement Methods

13. Procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al, and the thresholds in Table B.

 (A) Consulting Services

14. The World Bank loan will finance 100%of the project's consulting services. Four contracts are
neededfor the contract and payroll management system for a total of $2.73 million. For the first two
years of the project, these will be added to the existing KDP-2 contracts as amendments since (i)  the
competitive selection of these firms under KDP-2 for a three year assignment as specified inthe RFPs, of
which only one year has been used; (ii)  amending the existing contracts i s more advantageous than hiring
additional new firm for similar work. All of these contract services are exactly the same between the two
projects, and are required inthe same geographical locations as well. Contracts will be renegotiated
since the scope of services has changed. For the remaining two years, these firms will be selected on
single-source selection procedure if the performance i s fully satisfactory because the assignment will be a
continuation of previous work and no benefit i s expected from a competitive selection.

15. Not counting the individual consultants, the remainder of the selection of consultants under the
project consists of approximately $3.05 million divided among 36 contracts, of which 30 are for selection
under the selection based on consultants qualification method (CQ) lump sumcontracts to provincial
NGOs for approximately $25-35,000 each. For the 6 remaining contracts, 1firmis selected on the basis
of QBS for development of local regulation templates for a contract estimated to cost $200,000 and 5
firms selectedbased on single source selection (SS) procedures. Of these five contracts, three contract
will be awarded to the national statistical agency (BPS) due to the unique qualifications of this entity,
one ($200,000) to support statistical profiling and two ($700,000) for impact monitoring. One contract
estimated to cost $490,000 will be awarded to national association ofjournalists (AJI) to provide
independent monitoring byjournalists, also due the unique qualifications of this entity. And, finally one
contract estimated to cost ($400,000) will be awarded on a SS basis for the Special Programfor Papua
due to the unique qualifications of the firmgiven their knowledge of indigenous peoples program and the
needfor continuity. All other contracts are for individual consultants. Amounts for these individual
consultants are less than $50,000.



                                                    - 62 -

16.Individual consultants are selected through a competitive process by advertising inprovincial
newspapers and selected by a province level recruitment committee. Terms of reference for all Year 1
positions have been preparedby the government. They are the same or very slightly varied from the TOR
that were appraised by the Bank and have been used for KDP-2 startup. They were re-appraised by the
Bank and are available inproject files. All contracts at or above US$200,000 mustbe advertised in a
national gazette or national newspaper and inDevelopment Business. Individualconsultants will be
selected per Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.

(B)Beneficiary Sub-projects

17. The above component will finance beneficiary subprojects which are demand driven innature,
making it difficult to determine ex-ante what i s to be procured. Grant funds from the project can be used
for services, consultants, goods, training, scholarships, and works, as these are needed to prepare and
implement subprojects. Proposals for all subprojects are approved by the oversight consultant and two
members of the village and sub-district council. All proposals are attached to an Implementation
Agreement signedby the members of the subproject proponent and the facilitator (see PAD Annex 12).
Both the proposal and the implementation agreement are approved by the project manager (PjOK) before
funds are released: however, whilst they can be approved or rejected, they cannot be changed.

18. Most works (an estimated 95-98%) undertaken under this project will use community participation
to mobilize and pay labor. A very small number of works may needto be procured through small works.
These will be contractedon the basis of lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained locally from at least three local contractors (can include NGOs)in response to a
written invitation. The invitation includes basic specifications, start and completion dates, an agreement
format acceptable to the World Bank, and relevant drawings. Bids are opened in public meetings and
read aloud. The award i s made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the work. No
restrictions on participation inbiddingare allowed. This method i s described inthe Project Manual.
Annex 12 of the PAD for KDP-2 includes the main forms required by the Project ManualinEnglish,
which have been agreed with the Bank and which havebeen extensively reviewed inthe field by
qualified procurement and FMS specialists.

19. KDP3 also includes for kecamatan planning grants. These will be used for village-level facilitators.
Two village facilitators are selected ineach village from a candidate list of at least six candidates who
are ranked by criteria agreed with the Bank. Final selection i s by the kecamatan and district facilitation
team. Village facilitators receive approximately $15/month each, which includes their travel costs.

(C) Training, Workshopsand Incremental OperatingCosts

20. Expenditures for training and workshops cover cost for travels, accomodations, meals and venue
which follow the standard government procedures. The incremental costs refer solely to the costs of
travel andper diem for PMD Secretariat staff carryingout project supervision. A semi-annual estimated
travel schedule for these incremental costs i s prepared and submitted to the WB. Tickets are purchased
through normal government procedures. . Per diem allowance for travel follow standard government
procedures. All expenditures must be documented.

111.Prior ReviewThresholds

21. Prior review threshold for goods and works i s $100,000 and for consulting firms is $50,0000. For



                                                     - 63 -

 consulting contracts with individuals the prior review threshold i s $30,000. All sole-source selection will
 be prior reviewed.

       The ProcurementPlan for KDP-3 has been agreed with government and it i s available on file.


  Procurement methods(TableA)


                             Table A: ProjectCosts by Procurement Arrangements
                                                 (US$ millionequivalent)




II*    ExpenditureCategory                       ICB
                                                0.00                 0.00            278.90            0.00
    Works                               I      (0.00)                (0.00)         (181-00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                                                             0.00              0.00            0.00
                                               (0.00)                (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                                                          0.00             48.72            0.00
                                               (0.00')               (0.00)          (48.72)          (0.00)
4 Miscellaneous(incl. costs                     0.00                  0.00            16.10           28.60
for training, workshops and
other gov`t expendituresfor
project'ssupports)
                                                (0.00)               (0.00)          (16.10)          (0.00)
15. Front-endfee                                0.00                  0.00             2.10            0.00
                                                (0.00)               (0.00)           (2.10)          (0.00)
6. IncrementalOperational                       0.00                  0.00             2.40            0.00
cost                                            (0.00)               (0.00)           (1.90)          (0.00)
    Total                                       0.00                  0.00           348.22            28.60
                                                (0.00)               (0.00)     I    (249.82)     I   (0.00)

   I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loadcredit. All costs include
  *'contingencies.works
     Includes civil      and goods to be procured through community participation, consulting services, servicesof
     contracted individual facilitators and consultants,training and workshops carried out through government
     procedures, and increniental operating costs related to (i)managingthe project, and (ii)on-granting project funds to
     local governments.




                                                            - 64 -

                     Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                    (US$ million equivalent)

                                                   Selection Method
  Consultant Services
 ExpenditureCategory     QCBS    QBS       SFB       LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F. Total cost'
A. Firms                 0.00    0.20      0.00      0.00     1.06     4.53   0.00     5.79
                         (0.00)  (0.20)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (1.06)   (4.53)  (0.00)  (5.79)
B. Individuals           0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     42.93   0.00    42.93
                         (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (42.93) (0.00)  (42.93)
                                                                                                 ~



                  Total  0.00    0.20      0.00      0.00     1.06    47.46   0.00    48.72
                         (0.00)  (0.20)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (1.06)   (47.46) (0.00)  (48.72)

Prior review thresholds (Table 6)

                  Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                  Contract Value                                           ContractsSubject to
                                     Threshold                    Procurement                  Prior Review
  ExpenditureCategory             (US$thousands)                    Method                     (US$ millions)
1. Works                                100                 Community Procurement                    0

2. Goods                                100                 Community Procurement                    0

3. Services Firms                        50                        CQ, QBS                         1.26
                                          0                           ss                           4.53
14. Services, Individuals                30                           IC                           4.24
15. Miscellaneous           II                           II                            II                        II

                 Total value of contractssubject to prior review:
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:          Average
     Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:            One every 6 months
                                                                        (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                        for post-review/audits)
  Note: For the kabupaten and subdistrict facilitators, the Bank will only prior review their TOR. Total
value of these contracts is US$38.69 million.
I\
 Thresholds generallydiffer by countryand project. Consult "Assessmentof Agency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement"and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    - 66 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                        INDONESIA:Third Kecamatan Development Project

FinancialManaPement
1. Summary oftheFinancialManagement Assessment
The project will satisfy the Bank's minimumfinancial management requirement as stipulated in OP/BP
10.02 after completion of the agreed action plan (Attachment 6.2). The system includes checks and
balances infunds withdrawals, accounting and reporting of expenditures as well as periodic inspections
inthe field. The systems are supplemented bycommunities' social controls and transparency. Village's
capacities to managethese systems vary, but for the most part the gaps can be minimized by hands-on
training and technical assistance. A more detailed financial control measuresadopted in the community
level i s shown in Attachment 6.3.

SpecialAccount: GO1will establish a Special Account (SA) at Bank Indonesia (BI) denominatedinUS
dollars, based on a 6 months cash projection. The SA will be under the name of the Directorate General
of Budget (DGB), Ministry of Finance. The procedures to withdraw funds from the SA will follow
government procedures used for other projects acceptable to the Bank. The DGB shall forward the bank
statements of the SA received from BIto the KDP project manager. The project manager will prepare
FMRas abasis for SA replenishment request.

90-dayAdvance Account: Under KDP2, the project manager establishs a 90-day advance payroll account
inacompetitively selected commercial bank to manage the payrollsystem for kecamatan facilitators, Le.
PT.Bank BNI. A deposit for an estimated of 3-months salaries are made to the payroll account. The
bank automatically releases funds to the consultants accounts each monthin accordance with a set of
criteria agreed up-front. The bank provides bank statements and summary of payments made each month
which are used as the basis for replenishing the payroll account from Special Account at BI. Any
unutilizedfunds in the payroll account will be refunded to the Special Account. The use of bank services
to manage consultants payroll1will be expanded in the second year of KDP2 to cover all consultants,
includingFKs, KMs,R M s and NMC consultants. Accordingly, such mechanismwill continue to be used
under KDP3.

Report-BasedDisbursements: The GO1confirms the application of FMR-Based Disbursement system.
The project supporting documents for consultant will be retains at PMUwhereas documentation for
sub-project and sub-loans will be retained at PJOK and UPK at kecamatan level. All documentations will
be made available to the Bank and auditor upon reques.

2. Audit Arrangements
There i s no outstandingaudit on the previous project KDP-1( and KDP-2 hasjust started). A single FMR
audit report i s required. The KDPproject manager will prepare and produce consolidatedFMRs which
consist of progress report, financial report and procurementreport. The financial report will cover the
project financial statement, SA and SOE. The auditor will also audit the attainment of objectives
according to the agreed performance indicators. The annual audit reports shall be furnished to the Bank
no later than six months after the end of the govemment fiscal year. Immediately after issuance, all the
audit reports will be made available to the general public.

Prior to negotiations, PMD has issued a letter requesting auditor to audit the project in accordance with
(i) ofReferencefortheauditofspecialpurposefinancialstatementasinAttachment6.1,and(ii)
   Terms
the audit manual for the community projects (PedomanPelaksanaanAudit dun Pelaporanfor Program
PengembanganKecamatan,issuedby BPKP inApril 13, 1999). PMD ensures that these will be the sole



                                                    - 67 -

guidelines for project auditing. PMDhas agreed to inform annually the KDP's Kabupatens and
Provinces that the audit of the subprojects i s to be carried out exclusively by the auditors appointed by
PMD.

3. Disbursement Arrangements

Allocation of loankredit proceeds (Table C)

Expenditure Category                     Total Bank          IDA             IBRD             Percentageof
                                        (USD Million)       (SDR)            (USD)          expenditure to be
                                                                                                 financed
la. Grants for sub-projects                 155.1           20.13           126.615         30%; 60%; 80%11
lb. Kec planning Grants                     25.9             3.36            21.135           100%of Grant
                                                                                             amountdisbursed
2. Training facilitation support and        38.1             4.94            31.065                100%
workshops
3. Consultantsservicesfor:
  (a) Implementation Support                23.73            3.08            19.375                100%
  (b) M&Eand Studies                         3.1             0.40             2.49                 100%
4. Incrementaloperating costs21              1.92            0.25              1.57                80%
Front-end Fee (IBRD)                         2.1                             2.043



11 30% of Grant amountdisbursedfor Sub-projects inKabupatenswith above averagefinancial capacity, 60% of
Grant amount disbursedfor Sub-projects in Kabupatens with average financial capacity, and 80% of Grant amount
disbursedfor Sub-projects inKabupatenswith below average financial capacity, as defined pursuantto Decree
MOF-No. 35/KMK.072/2002.

21 Incrementaloperating costs means the reasonableand documentedexpendituresincurred by thePh4D Secretariat
for staff travel and consumablesfor purposesof implementing the Project and which expenditureswould not have
beenincurred absent the Project.




                                                      - 68 -

                                                                                         Attachment 6.1

            INDONESIA: THIRD KECAMATANDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                  TERMS OF REFERENCE
                  for the Audit of Special PurposeProject Financial Statements


Objectives

        The overall objectives of the audit are: (i)to enable the auditor to express a professional
opinion on the project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management system
including internal controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (ii)    to enable the auditor to
verify financial management information that required under FMR-based disbursement; and (iii)      ) to
assess the achievements of the project objectives as measuredby performance indicators.

       The audit should cover the entire project, i.e. covering all sources and application of funds by
all implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and other
agencies as considered necessary for the audit.

Scope

      The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and with
the Audit Manual for World Bank-Financed projects (July 1998). It will include such tests and
controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. Specific areas of coverage of
the audit will include the following:

(1) An assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with consistently applied generally accepted accounting principles and give a true and fair view of
the operations of the project during the year and the financial position of the project at the close of
the fiscal year. Any material deviations from the accounting principle, and the impact of such
departures on the project financial statements as presented would be stated;


(2) An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems', including internal
controls. This would include aspects such as adequacy and effectiveness of accounting, financial and
operational controls, and any needs for revision; level of compliance with established policies, plans
and procedures; reliability of accounting systems, data and financial reports; methods of remedying
weak controls or creating them where there are none; verification of assets and liabilities; and
integrity, controls, security and effectiveness of the operation of the computerized system (if any);
and
(3) An assessment of compliance with provisions of financing agreements, especially those relating
to accounting and financial matters. This would inter alia include verification that:

     a. all external funds have been used inaccordance with the conditions of the relevant financing
         agreements, with due attention to economy and         efficiency, and only for the purposes for
         which the financing was provided.



                                               - 69 -

     b. counterpart funds have been provided and usedin accordance with the relevant financing
        agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for
         which they were provided;
     C. expenditures charged to the project are eligible expenditures and have been correctly
        classified in accordance with the relevant financing agreement;
     d. goods and services financed have been procuredinaccordance with the relevant financing
         agreement;
     e. all necessary supporting documents, records, and accounts have been kept inrespect of all
        project activities;
     f. clear linkages exist between the accountingrecords includingaccounts books andthe Project
        FinancialStatements;
     g.  where Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the
        provisions of the relevant financing agreement;
     h. FMRusedas the basis for the submission of withdrawalapplications accurately reflect
        expenditures and activities duringthe project period; and
     i.projectexpendituresasreportedbytheprojectimplementationagenciesarereconciledwith
         the amounts withdrawn from the Special Account and the amounts deposited to the special
         account are reconciled with the amounts disbursed from Loan/Grants.

(4) An assessment of procurement management whether procurement performance has met
procurement plan agreed at negotiations or subsequently updated and highlight key procurement
issue (if any).

(5) An assessment of project implementation and whether financial and physical progress are
consistent during the project period. The monitoring of expenditures in relation to physical progress
i s ensuring that the project i s under proper financial control.

(6) An assessment on the achievements of the planned results of the project as measured by the
performance indicators as stipulatedin the relevant financing agreement.

Project Financial Statements

       Project Financial Statement prepared by the project executing agency would be based on the
project's compilation Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) and should include: (i)      Annual Project
Sources and Uses of Funds; and (ii)     Cumulative Project Sources and Uses of Funds. (iii) and
                                                                                         deposits
replenishments received from the Bank; (iv) withdrawals from the special account; and (v) the
remaining balances of the special account at the end of the fiscal year. Sources of funds would show
Loadcredit, other donors, and GO1 counterpart funds separately. Project expenditures would be
summarized by main project components, disbursement categories and by project location (province
or kota) both consolidated for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date.

         Special Account: The auditor should assess a reconciliation report between the project
expenditures made from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account.
Reconciliation should also be made with the amounts paid from the pre-financing account and direct
payments (if any). The auditor should assess a reconciliation report between the amounts deposited
to the special account and disbursed by the Bank to the special account.

          The auditor should asses the FMR as a basis for the submission of withdrawal applications,
accurately reflect expenditures and activities during the project period. The auditor should (i)
ascertain that the financial management system i s reliable to produce the FMR and has met Bank's


                                                  - 70 -

    requirement during the year; and (ii) the possible risks of continuing to use the method of
                                                   asses
    disbursement in the future. The auditor should apply such review and tests of controls as the auditor
    considers necessary. These expenditures should be carefully checked eligibility against relevant
    financing agreements, and by reference to the Project Appraisal Document and other project
    documents. Ineligibleexpenditures should be identified.

    Audit Report

              The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project financial
    statements and a separate paragraph commenting on the management of the special account; and the
    accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn based on FMR and the extent to which the Bank
    can rely on FMRs as a basis for Loadcredit disbursement. The report should refer to the auditor's
    TOR. The auditor should submit the report to the project executing agency who should then promptly
    forward one copy of the audited accounts and report to the Bank. It should be received by the Bank
    no later than six months after the end of the project's fiscal year.

    ManagementLetter

    In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which the auditor
    will:

         a. give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were
               examined during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of
               weakness in systems and controls and make recommendationfor their improvement;
         b. give comments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness inthe use of resources;
         c. report on the achievement of the planned results of the project;
         d. report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
               agreement and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such
               compliance;
         e. communicate matters that have come to the auditor attention during the audit which might
               have a significant impact on the implementation of the project; and
          f. any other matters that the auditors considers pertinent.

    General

    The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
    information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should
    also be obtained of amounts disbursed and outstandingat the Bank.

    The auditor should be familiar with the Bank's Audit Manual for World Bank Financed Projects
     which provides guidance to auditors conducting audits of Bank-financed projects.


`The financial managementsystemwould include methods and records established to identify, assemble, analyze, classify, record
and report on transactions and to maintain accountability for the related assets and liabilities.




                                                              -71 -

                                                                                       Attachment 6.2

                   INDONESIA: THIRD KECAMATANDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                               Action Planon Financial Management

   Issues/ Problems                   Remedial Action                   Responsibility    Due Date
                                                                           Unit
1.Organization             project organization structure agreedand       PMD           Done
structure                  acceptableto the Bank
                           Establishment project organization structure                0Done
2. Project staffing        Proposedstaff for the project management       PMD           Done
                           unit
                           Appointment of Project Managers and their                    Done
                           team
3.Project management       training planfor project stakeholders          PMD           On going
  capacity
4.Project Management       P M Mcompleted and acceptableto the Bank.      PMD           Done
Manual (PMM)               PMMformally issueby the GO1                    PMD           before Loan
                                                                                         Effectiveness
Juklak/Juknis              M I S                                                        before Loan
                                                                                         Effectiveness
5. Budget & Fundingfor     budget document issuedand or revised           PMD           Nov 30,2003
the first year
implementation
6. Circular letter (SEIby  Draft SE                                       PMD           DoneNov 30,2003
DGBudget                   SE issued and circulated                       DG.Budget
7. Audit Arrangement       draft TOR audit                                PMD           Done
                           Auditor assignmentagreed                       PMD           Nov 30.2003




                                                   - 72 -

                                                                                             Attachment 6.3

                 INDONESIA: THIRD KECAMATANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                FINANCIAL CONTROL MEASURES INTHE COMMUNITY LEVEL


The FinancialProcess
         KDPbegins with a fixed total amount that is assigned to a sub-district. This amount is standard
and i s widely publicized so that all stakeholders know how much total money i s available. Within the
sub-district or village, the money supports individual proposals that come from village assemblies. The
allocation of funds to a particular village i s based on completeddesigns and budgets drawn up together
by the village and the field engineer and approved by the local government's project manager. Once
determined, this amount of funds i s never changed, although how it i s spent and the physical works
undertaken can easily be amended by the three parties.
         Upon ratificationof the plans by the project manager and responsible party from the village, the
village implementation team requests an initial withdrawal from the local branch of the treasury at the
district level. They use a standard administrative format that simply withdraws a standard percentage of
the allocated funds. It i s signed by the village representatives and by the project manager. The size of the
withdrawal i s a standard percentage of the budgeted total. The treasury office requires a few simple
things to accompany the first withdrawal: proof that the project manager and village representative are
indeed the authorizedparties, a copy of the grant agreement with the village, and signature samples. The
funds are transferred directly into the account of the village implementationteam ina localbranchof a
government or commercial bank.
          Even though the funds are in their own bank account, the village team cannot withdraw funds
without countersigningby the consultant. Both the consultant and the responsible person from the
village would have previously submitted their signature samples to the bank, along with proof that they
were the authorizedpersons. Inorder to obtain the approval of the field engineer, the village
implementation team has to produce an acceptable FundsUtilizationPlan-a detailed list of
anticipated expenditures for the immediate future. The frequency of withdrawals depends in part on
physical proximity to the bank from the village, but in principle the amount of cash kept in the village i s
as small as practical. On Java, access to the banks i s nearly always easy, although remote branches of
banks often required some advance notice to be sure to have sufficient funds on handfor a large
withdrawal. Off-Java, special contracts with commercial or state banks are signed to provide regular cash
deliveries to outlying locations. Every expenditure made by the village has to be accounted for in an
ExpenseReport. An adequatereceipt is one that has the signature of the person receivingthe funds, a
clear description of what the expenditure was for, a clear amount and date. All receipts of materials and
services in the Expense Report require the attachment of deliveryorders, wherein a designated person
notes the items and quantity received, countersigned by the person deliveringthem.

          Withdrawals from the bank continue to be made until the first tranche's funds are nearly
exhausted. At this point the village requests additional funds from the treasury, usingthe same form
countersigned by the project manager. This shows both the funds requested and cumulative status. In
addition to this request, the project manager requires two other items prior to submittingthe request to
the treasury. The first was the summary of expenses found in the Expense Report, and the second was a
status report signed by the local bank saying how much funds remained deposited from the previous
tranche.




                                                      - 73 -

        The full expense report includes a summary of expenses and receipts, includingthe amount of
cash on handin the village. This sheet i s backed up with the proof of every expenditure and their
-i
associated delivery notes, all of which are glued to blank sheets of paper and bound. One expense report
book s preparedfor each withdrawal from the treasury, but these books stay in the village. They can be
examinedby the consultant, the project manager or his designate, any inspectors, and any person in the
village who had an interest.

        Payment of incentive wages to villages i s accomplishedthrough the use of two standard
payment forms. These are used for any payment to a villager, whether working for at a daily rate or
working on a piece rate based on accomplishment. The form for pay based on attendance lists the
workers in a particular group (usually around 20 workers, men and women), their attendance, their
accrued wages this period, and their signature (or thumb print if they were illiterate) confirming that they
hadreceived the given amount of money. Most payment i s on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. Payment
based on accomplishment also shows the list of workers, the basis for calculating the volume
accomplished, the division of payments to each individual (decided amongst themselves), and their
individual signatures. All of these payments and rates are posted on publicly displayed signboards.

The CashBook

         A key to financial controlis the requirement that the implementation teammaintain an accurate
cash book in a standard format, updated daily. The key features of the cash book are that:

        0    The information i s maintained in a ledger so that corrections and additions are apparent;
        0    It contains a detailed list of all financial transactions, bothreceipts and expenses;
        0    Expenses are described at the same level of detail as the official receipts, with each
             expenditure entered into a column correspondingto the sub component of the project it
             corresponded to (including the village team's administrative expenses)
        0    All expensesare codedwith a simple expensecategory and listed with the number written on
             the proof of expense
        0    Two kinds of incomingfunds are recorded: from the treasury into the bank, and from the
             bank into the village treasurer's hands. Balances were calculated usingthe latter.
        0    Erasures, white-out, and obliterating marks are forbidden, so that corrections are visible.
        0    Books are closed near the end of each month and books are then signed by four persons: the
             village treasurer, the responsible party, the field engineer, the village chief inhis capacity as
             controller, and two villagers as witnesses.
        0    A runningbalance is maintained, with the proviso that the balance cannot be negative. Inthis
             way, the books always show the actual status of expenses and cash, without hidden expenses
             and loans to complicate the understanding of an inspector.

         Village-level meetings are held during implementation to review procurement and expenditures,
and all informationi s posted on public signboards (avg. 10per village). An accountability meeting is
held at project completion for the village implementation team and the facilitators to account for funds
and to hand over the project to the village, represented by the council and the village head.

Inspecting

         Several government inspection agencies make formal inspections of a given VIP or KDP village.
The district andprovincial inspection offices typically made inspections during implementationto a
small sample of villages in their area. They are usually more concerned with administrative inspections,



                                                       - 74 -

                                        ~~~                                ~



but they also review the physical works to some extent. The NationalDevelopmentAuditingAgency
BPKPperforms a larger scale inspection several months after the end of the fiscal year, again on a
sample of villages. In the field, representatives of their regional branch offices inspect both the
administrative and physical aspects, as well as the visible benefits. Their reports are sent both to the
project manager inJakarta as well as to the World Bank.

         More frequent inspections are made by other project consultants. Senior engineers are assigned
to each district, and more than half their time (by contract and TOR) is spent in visiting villages to check
on the physical works and on the work of the field engineers. This includes checking the administration.
Incases where the works or administration are below standard, recommendations and instructions are left
with the implementation team and field engineer. An independent inspector visits villages at random
without any accompanying consultants, and this serves as a crosscheck of all the above.

Conclusions

         Although lackingin sophistication, the financial control system inthe community projects for the
most part i s effective in limiting leakages and indetecting leakages that occurred. The system includes
checks and balances in funds withdrawals, detailed bookkeeping and records of expenses, and periodic
inspectionsin the field. The formal systems are coupled with the communities' social controls and fueled
by transparency. Village's capacities to manage these systems vary, but for the most part the differences
can be remedied through hands-on training and follow-up. This i s not to say that malfeasance never
occurs, but it i s usually relatively easy to detect, often reported when it does occur, and in enough cases
actors have been subjected to administrative sanctions when it was detected to prevent any widespread
contagion effects.

         Weaknesses in the system appear to revolve largely around implementation externalities rather
than aspects of the system itself. For example, while the community projects' financial management
systems can usually detect leakages, there i s a much less well developed systemfor imposing sanctions
on people who steal. Similarly, local government auditors have been accused of falsifying reports or to
ask villagers for money to not report supposed financial abuses.




                                                       - 75 -

                              Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                    INDONESIA: Third Kecamatan Development Project


 Project Schedule                                        Planned           Actual
ITime taken to preparethe project (months)     I       5              I              I
 First Bank mission(identification)                    09/01/2002
 Appraisal missiondeparture                            0511512003
 Negotiations                                          06/02/2003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                          11/01/2003


Prepared by:



Preparationassistance:


 3ank staff who worked on the projeci ncluded:
          Name                                         Speciality
 Yaseer Rana                             Procurement
 Yogana Prasta                           Disbursements
 UnggulSuprayitno                        Financial Management
 Sentot Satria                           Team leader
 Victor Bottini                          Operations
 Enurlaela Hasanah                       Grievance Procedures
 Chitrawati Buchori                      Gender
 S r i Kuntari                           Engineering management
 Soroso Josostromo                       Engineer
 Karin Nordlander                        Lawyer
 Arie Purwanti                           ACS
 Retno Widuri                            ACS
 AnjuSachdeva                            Document management
 Thomas Walton                           Environment
 Jacqueline Pomeroy                      Economist
 Vivi Alatas                             Economist
 Menno Pradhan                           Economist
 SusanWong                               Monitoring and Evaluation
 Scott Guggenheim                        Anthropology




                                                 - 76 -

                                          ~~               ~   ~~




                           Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
                     INDONESIA:Third Kecamatan Development Project


A. Project Implementation Plan


TOR for microfinance program
Timetables
Financial Management, Procurement, and Disbursement review
Eligible list of kecamatans
Procurement plan
Management assignment


B. BankStaff Assessments
KDPsupervision mission reports
QAG5 review of supervision
QAG quality at entry revierw


C. Other
Overview of KDP3 (Bappenas)
KDP impact review on local governance (Bappenas)
KDP microfinance review
KDP3 microfinance preparation report (Holloh)
KDP3 village and intervillage review (Evers)
KDP-1IRWeconomicreview (Dent)
KDPpoverty targeting review (Molyneaux)
KDP impact evaluation (Univ. Indonesia)
KDP corruption study (Woodhouse)
Monthly NGO reports on KDP implementation (in Indonesian)
AJI review ofjournalists participation in KDP (inIndonesian)
KDP 1Completion Report (PMD)

*Includingelectronicfiles




                                                 - 77 -

                                       Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                 INDONESIA: Third Kecamatan Development Project
                                                          06-Mar-2003
                                                                                                                  Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                           andactual
                                                               OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
ProjectID  FY    Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO40578    2002 ID-EasternIndonesiaRegionTransport          200 00      0.00                  0.00    000    164.66      24.53      0.00
PO72652    2002 ID-URBANPOVERTY II                           29 50     70 50                  0 00    0 00   10301        3 29      0 00
PO73970    2002 ID-GLOBALDEV LEARNING(LlL)                    2 66      0 00                  0 00    0 00     2 63       0 51      0 00
PO49539    2001 ID-PROVINCIALHEALTHII                        63 20     40 00                  0 00    0 00   100 15      29 73      0 00
PO40526    2001 ID-W.JAVA ENVMT MGMT                         11 70      5 75                  0 00    0 00    1679        4 52      0 00
PO66051    2001 ID-GEF-W.JAVA ENVT MGMT                       0 00      0 00                  2 54    0 00     2 61       2 22      000
PO66949    2001 ID-LIBRARYDEVELOPMENT PROJECT LlL -           0 00      4 15                  0 00    0 00     3 97        176      0 00
PO73025    2001 ID-SECONDKECAMATANDEVELOPMENTPROJ           206 90     11130                  0 00    0 00   306 50      -17 92     0 00
PO59930    2000 DECNT.AGRICULTURAUFORESTRYEXTENSI            1300       5 00                  0 00    0 00     9 25       2 66      0 00
PO59477    2000 ID-WSSLICII                                   0 00     77 40                  0 00    0 00    67 02       -9 26     000
PO49545    2000 ID-PROVINCIALHEALTHI                          0 00     36 00                  0 00    0 00    29 63       1277      0 00
PO56074    1999 ID-MUNICIPALINNOVS                            5 00      0 00                  0 00    0 00     1 07        1 07     0 95
PO55821    1999 ID-URBANPOVERTY                               0 00     10000                  0 00    0 00    23 66       25 67     3 12
PO40196    1999 ID-SUMATRABASIC EDUCUATION                   54 50      20 10                 0 00    0 00    36 37       22 33     0 00
PO63732    1999 ID-CORPORATERESTRUCTRG                       31 50      0 00                  0 00   24 50     1 52       26 02     045
PO41695    1999 ID-SULAWESIBASICEDUC.                        47 90      1593                  0 00    0 00    39 27       31 71     0 00
PO64116    1999 WATSAL                                       300 00     0 00                  0 00    0 00   15000       15000      0 00
PO36049    1999 ID-EARLYCHILDDEVELOPMENT                     21 50       0 00                 0 00    1065     4 07       1432     14 32
PO03967    1999 ID-FIFTHHEALTHPROJECT                        44 70       0 00                 0 00    5 00    19 14       19 60     000
PO39644    1996 ID-W. JAVA BASIC EDUCATION                   10350       0 00                 0 00    3 76    26 60       -6 47     0 00
PO40061    1996 BENGKULU REGIONALDEVELOPMENT                 20 50       0 00                 0 00    5 00    1136        12 40     6 19
PO40062    1996 CORAL REEF MGMT REHA                           0 00      0 00                 4 10    0 00     1 04        0 98     1 46
PO03993    1996 ID-SUMATRAREG'L RDS                          234 00      0 00                 0 00    50 00   56 37       64 71   -19 93
PO46715    1996 Indonesia. IlDP                               34 50      0 00                 0 00    8 50     7 02       1552      7 02
P036956    1996 ID-SAFEMOTHERHOOD                             42 50      000                  0 00    9 15    1029        16 78     11 36
PO36046    1996 CORALREEF MGMREHAB                             6 90      0 00                 4 10    0 00     2 66        2 66     1 39
PO03967    1997 ID-CENTRALINDONESIASEC. EDU.                 10400       0 00                 0 00    0 00    31 19       31 19     0 00
PO42540    1997 ID-IODINEDEF. CONTROL                         26 50      0 00                 0 00    9 70     4 10       1360      11 30
PO41694    1997 ID-SUMATRASECONDARY EDUCATION                 96 00      0 00                 0 00    0 23    1607        16 30     000
PO36047    1997 ID-BAL1URBANINFRA.                           11000       0 00                 0 00    36 03   15 61       39 94     17 71
PO04026    1997 ID-RailwayEfficiency                         10500       0 00                 0 00    47 33   34 37       61 69     1 38
PO03700    1997 ID-Solar Home Systems                          0 00      0 00                24 30    1025     7 66       20 15     2 69
PO49051    1997 BEPEKAAUDIT MODERNIZATIONPROJECT              1640       0 00                 0 00     0 90    7 69        8 59     7 69
PO40195    1997 ID-QUALITYOF UNDERGRADUATEEDUC (QUE           71 20      0 00                 0 00     9 89   14 12       20 15     1045
PO37097    1996 ID-E.JAVASEC.EDUC.                            99 00      0 00                 0 00     3 63   21 46       25 10     0 00
PO04006    1996 NUSATENGGARA DEV.                             27 00      000                  0 00     4 90    165         6 55      1 65
PO04016    1996 ID-StrategicUrban Rds                         86 90      0 00                 0 00    1000     2 57       12 57     -1 99
PO04011    1996 SULAWESIAGRI AREA                             26 60      0 00                 0 00     3 70    1 26        4 56     -043
PO04021    1996 POW.TRANS 8 DlST II                          373 00      0 00                 0 00   16371    11 00      17471      64 71
PO04010    1994 DAM SAFETY Project                            55 00      0 00                 0 00    19 60    0 36       20 16     -0 04

                                                    Total  267676      466 13               3504    43664    137018      92574     14167




                                                               - 78 -

                                            INDONESIA
                                         STATEMENT OFIFC's
                                      Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                            Jun 30 - 2002
                                          InMillionsUSDollars

                                                           Committed                      Disbursed
                                                         IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
2001               Dianlia                          4.00    0.00     1.00    0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1994               KDLC Bali                        0.00    1.72     0.00    0.00  0.00   1.72    0.00  0.00
1991               LYON-MLF-Ibis                    2.01    0.00     0.00    2.01  2.01   0.00    0.00   2.01
1988               Manulife                         0.00    0.32     0.00    0.00  0.00   0.32    0.00   0.00
1997               PT AdeS Alfindo                  0.00    6.98     0.00    0.00  0.00   6.98    0.00  0.00
1989               PT Agro Muko                     0.00    2.20     0.00    0.00  0.00   2.20    0.00  0.00
1997               PTAlumindo                      13.16    0.00     0.00   10.00  13.16  0.00    0.00  10.00
1989191/94         PTAstra                          0.00    5.82     0.00    0.00  0.00   5.82    0.00  0.00
1997                PT AstraGraphia                 0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00  0.00   2.00    0.00  0.00
1993196            PT BBLDharmala                  11.29    0.00     0.00   21.34  11.29  0.00    0.00  21.34
1995               PTBakriePipe                    33.57    0.00     0.00    0.00  33.57  0.00    0.00   0.00
1997100            PTBank NISP                      5.00    0.00     5.00    0.00   5.00  0.00    4.97   0.00
1997                PT Berlian                      7.42   20.00     0.00   18.72   7.42  16.65   0.00  18.72
                    PT Grahawita                    2.16    0.00     0.00    0.00   2.16  0.00    0.00   0.00
1995                PTIndaci                        0.00    0.00     1.44    0.00   0.00  0.00     1.44  0.00
1991                PT Indo-Rama                    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1990191193195199101 PT KIA Keramik                 16.51    0.00     0.00   53.49  16.51  0.00    0.00  53.49
1992194196          PT KIA Serpih                  15.00    0.00     0.00   49.50  15.00   0.00   0.00  49.50
1995                PT Kalimantan                  20.00    15.00    0.00    5.22  20.00  15.00   0.00   5.22
1997                PT Makro                        0.00    1.32     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.79   0.00   0.00
1997100             PT Megaplast                    7.00    2.50     0.00    0.00   7.00   2.50   0.00   0.00
1998                PTNusantara                     7.63    0.00     0.00    5.93   7.63   0.00   0.00   5.93
1993                PT PramindoIkat                25.00    3.94    25.00   36.18  25.00   3.94   25.00 36.18
1996                PT Samudera                     0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   5.00    0.00  0.00
1993                PTSayap                         7.50    0.00     0.00    6.00   7.50   0.00    0.00  6.00
1997                PT Sigma                        0.00    3.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   3.00    0.00  0.00
2001                PTViscose                      20.31    0.00     0.00   23.33  20.31   0.00    0.00 23.33
1992195             PTWings                         6.51    0.00     0.00    6.40   6.51   0.00    0.00  6.40
1997                PTAstraOtopart                  0.00     1.07    0.00    0.00   0.00   1.07    0.00  0.00
1997                PrudentialAsia                  0.00    2.24     0.00    0.00   0.00   2.24    0.00  0.00
1994                SEAVIIndonesia                  0.00     1.26    0.00    0.00   0.00   1.26    0.00  0.00
1991                SemenAndalas                    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1980187             Sunson                         12.41    0.00     0.00    7.87  12.41   0.00    0.00  7.87
2001
                          Total Portfolio:        216.48   74.37     32.44 245.99  212.48 70.49   31.41 245.99



                                                        AuurovalsPendingCommitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi   Partic
2001               PTBLT I1                           12.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2002               Wings Oil Palm                     11.50      0.00     0.00    10.00
2002               NISPRI                              0.00      0.00     3.64     0.00
1993               PT INDORAMA SWAP                   10.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2002               ManulifePrincipl                    0.00      0.00     0.04     0.00

                   TotalPendingCommitment:            33.50      0.00     3.68    10.00




                                                  - 79 -

                                                   Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                             INDONESIA:Third Kecamatan Development Project
                                                                                  East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                              Asia &       LOW-
                                                               lndonesla        Paclflc    Income           Developmentdlamond'
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                      213.6          1,826      2,511                           Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                    680           900         430
                                                                                                           i
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                   1447           1,649      1,069                                  T

Average annual growth, 199501                                                                                                        I
Population("A)                                                        1.6           1 1         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                       2.5            1 3        2.3

Most recentestimate (latest year available, 199501)
Poverty("A of populationbelownationalpovertyline)                     13
Urbanpopulation (% of fotalpopulation)                                42             37         31
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                        66             69         59
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                                 41             36         76
Childmalnutrition (% ofchildrenunder5)                                24             12                    1       Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                     74             74         76
Illiteracy(?Aof populationage 15+)                                    13             14         37
Grossprimaryenrollment PA of school-agepopulation)                   113            107         96                   y*=ie**   lndonesia
    Male                                                             115            106        103                              Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                           110            108         88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1981                                                                                             I
                                                                    1991          2000        2001
                                                                                                             Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                       92 5       116.5         1522       145.3
Gross domestic InvestmenUGDP                             26 7        35.5          146         17.0
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                          29 0        28.4          42 4       41.1                                Trade
Grossdomestic savingdGDP                                 31 7        37.4          25 2       25.5
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                                             33.0          188         24.4                                  T

Currentaccountbalance/GDP                                 -0.6       -3.7           5 3         4.7
InterestpaymentdGDP                                        1.5        3.2           47          4.1         Domestic                            Investment
TotaldebffGDP                                            24.6        68.3          93 1        91.6         savings

Totaldebt service/exports                                 14.0       34.3          36 2        35.4
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                           88 7                                              1
                                                                                                                                     L

Presentvalue of debffexports                                                      1820
                                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                         1981-91 1991-01            2000           2001    2001-05
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                           6.4          3.2        4.9           3 3         4.4                   "'a+Il__l_Indonesia
GDP oer caoita
       ~.                                     4.5          1.6        3.2            1 8        2.4                              Low-incomegroup
Exports of goodsand services                  5 2          43        265             1 9        4 4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                         1981       1991           2000       2001           Growthof Investmentand GDP(%)
("A of GDP)
Agriculture                                               23.4       19.5           17.0       16.4         20  T


Industry                                                  41.2       41.2          47.0        46.5
    Manufacturing                                         12.1       21.3          26.2        26.1
Services                                                  35.4       39.3          35.9        37.1

Privateconsumption                                        57.2       53.4          67.7        67.0
Generalgovernmentconsumption                              11.0        9.1            7.1        7.4
Importsof goodsand services                               24.0       26.5           31.7       32.6

                                                      1981-91 199101               2000       2001
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                      Growthof exportsand imports(Oh)               I
Agriculture                                                3.6        1.8            1.7        0.6
Industry                                                   8.1        4.1            5.9        3.3         20
    Manufacturing                                         12.9        5.7            6.1        4.3          0
Services                                                   6.6        2.9            5.2        4.4         20

Privateconsumption                                         4.5        6.0            3.6        5.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                               4.6        -0.1           6.5        8.2
Gross domestic investment                                  8.1        -3.8          -1.2        -0.7
Importsof goods and services                               1.4        3.5           21.1        8.1

Note:2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
'The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                               - 80 -

                                                                                                               Zndonesia

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1981   1991     2000    2001
Domestic prices                                                            lntlatlon (96)                                   I
(77 change)
Consumer prices                            ..    9.4      3.7    11.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                    10.4    -1.1    11.1     12.6

Governmentfinance
("A of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                            ..   18.1    21.4     20.1
Current budgetbalance                      ..   -4.3     -0.7    -1.o
Overall surolusideficit                                  -1.9    -3.7

TRADE
                                        1981    1991    2000    2001
(US$millions)                                                              Export and lmporl levels(US$ mill.)              I
Total exports (fob)                        .. 29,635  65,408  57,365
  Fuel                                     .. 10,895  14,386   12,648
  EstateCrops                              ..    826   1,111     872    Mi000
  Manufactures                             .. 10,679  22,287  22,275
Total imports (cif)                        .. 25,869  37,087  31,328    40 000

  Food                                     ..  1,081   2,782   2,497
  Fuel and energy                          ..                             20 000
                                               2,323   6,071   5,523
                                                                        I                                                   I
  Capital goods                            .. 11,631   9,212   9,050           0

Exportpriceindex (1995=700)                                                        95    $8    $7      98    99    00   01

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                                                              BS Exports        W Imports
Terms of trade (7995=100)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1981    1991    2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                             Current account balanceto GDP(%)
Exportsof goods and services           23,797 32,457  70,541   62,673   /BT
Importsof goods and services           21,540 31,398  55,293   51,615
Resourcebalance                        2,257   1,059  15,248   11,058      4


Net income                             -3,073 -5,581   -8,440  -8,143      2
Net currenttransfers                     250     262    1,190   3,985
                                                                           0
Current account balance                 -566  -4,260   7,998    6,900                              $8      99      w    01

Financingitems (net)                      192  5,788   -2,956  -1,858      2

Changesin net reserves                    374 -1,528   -5,042  -5,042      4

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)    10,250 10,250  29,268   28,018
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)        631.8 1,950.3 8,421.8 10,260.9

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1981    1991    2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                            1 Compositionof 2001 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed    22,761 79,548  141,691 133,073
   IBRD                                 1,309 10,597   11,623  11,435                              A. 11,435
   IDA                                    632    829      695     722     I           G20.029

Total debt service                      3,492 11,475   26,868  23,556
   IBRD                                   148   1,412   1,970   1,753
   IDA                                      7     20       30      32
Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                         124    262        0       0       F 33,271
   Officialcreditors                      974  3,250    1,627   1,334
   Private creditors                    1,087   1,967 -15,509 -13,590
   Foreigndirect investment               133   1,482  -4,550
   Portfolio equity                         0       0  -1,911       0                                 E:35,397
World Bank program
   Commitments                              0   1,533     164     645       A - IBRD                           E Bilateral
   Disbursements                          383   1,398   1,218     585       B. IDA      D -Other multilateral  F Private
   Principal repayments                    47    621    1,006     853       C .IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                ---
   Net flows                              335    777      212    -268
   Interestpayments                       107    811      994     932
   Net transfers                          229     -34    -782  -1,200

ueveiopmenr monomics                                                                                                 YI 1J/UZ




                                                     -81 -

                         Additional Annex 11:Anti-Corruption Strategy
                     INDONESIA: Third Kecamatan Development Project

Projects inIndonesiaoperate in a high-riskenvironment when it comes to issues of leakage and
corruption. Project preparation for KDP3 updated the 2002 financial management assessmentand
disbursement action program for KDP-2, which provides the compliance framework for fiduciary
management. Nevertheless, highly dispersed community projects such as KDP operate in somewhat
different institutional environments than standard projects do which must be addressedby their
anti-corruption strategies. A well-implemented strategy that makes greater use of social controls and
transparency can ensure levels of confidence demonstrably higher than traditional project designs that
operate in these very same villages.

This annex summarizes the general anti-corruption strategy for KDP-3. Itdraws heavily on the general
OSUIndonesiaanti-corruption framework and the recently issued World Bank guide for fiduciary
management in CDD projects, but it also builds on field experiences over the past three years of KDP
implementation.

IdentifyingCorruptioninIndonesianCommunity Projects-Traditionalcommunity development
projects have a relatively limited number of well-known points of leakage. A non-exhaustive list would
include:

         a. Transfers -Financialtransfers to communities usually come earmarked or in kind.The Local
             Level Institutions (ESW) study found that less than 50% of the nominal Rps. 20 million cash
             grant per village got there at all, and less than 15% of that amount actually came as a cash
             grant. IDT (Inpres desa tertinggal), a $200 million nationwide poverty program, also suffered
             badly from delivery of goods inkmd(usually of an inferior kind).
         b. Poor contractor management -Contractor management for communities is normallyhandled
             by district technical offices, not by villages. Contract awards are often "directed" to favored
             companies, regardless of qualifications or experience. Anecdotal interviews by WB staff
             have found endemic problems of substitution of inferior materials, unfinished works, and off
             the top payments for contract awards. There are no sanctions for inferior work.
         c. Poor pricing practices -Because contractor markets are not competitive, both over billing
             and overdesign are endemic.
         d. False taxes and charges-Governmentcharging for "services" is so common that officials
             will even issue receipts for blatantly illegal practices, such as a standard 5% charge on all
             funds going through a village head. Virtually every financial transaction ina development
             project has a charge on it to get the proper form signed and the funds released.
         e. Standard financialcontrol systems often work against rather than in favor of sound financial
             management - villagers everywhere report recurrent charges being levied by auditors and
             inspectors to not find fault with financial reporting, often on formats that either have never
             been given to villagers or else contradict the ones already in use.

The corruption problems with technical assistancefor community projects are also well known and,
while they are not very different from Indonesiandevelopment projects in general, stand out inthe case
of community programs becausecommunities often have few alternative suppliers and nobody from
whom they can seek redress:

          i.Improperbillingpracticesbyconsultantfirms-inKDP-1,studentsfromonecompanycalled
             the W B to complain about how they and all other candidates (more than 100) were given


                                                       - 82 -

             instructions on how to falsify their c.v's to meet the project's TOR. Another (fired) company
             claimed that it was forced to swallow a merger with the second-ranked company, includinga
             Rps. 300 million cash payment and the absorption of 20 entirely unqualified staff.
         ii.Cutsinsalariesandtravelallowances-oftenQCBS"winners" canbeatthecompetition
             because apparently competitive overhead costs are "subsidized" by later cuts from staff
             salaries and travel allowances.
         iii.PncefixingbetweenTAstaffandlocalgovernment(includingvillageheads) isalso
             common, aided by a general lack of public information about prices.

KDP's anti-corruption strategy has three main themes: (i)    eliminate complexity; (ii) brightlights on
                                                                                        shine
every financial transaction; (iii)respond quickly to complaints. The guidingprincipleunderlying the
anti-corruption program i s that KDPprocedures must encourage oversight and action by multiple
stakeholders, notjust the World Bank or the government.     .

Eliminate complexity- Inmany traditional community-oriented projects, money disappears due to the
welter of transfer levels, intermediaries, and processing requirements involved in turningWorld Bank
project funds into bridges, roads, and water supply system in distant villages. KDP simplifies every
aspect of this system. Because money goes straight from the national level to the village accounts, there
are almost none of the delays or leakages normal to designs that step funds down through
inter-governmental transfers. The project's handover of budgets to the villagers also supports simplified
management: when agencies start listing the many forms and procedural requirements needed to get
started, the villagers almost always take their business elsewhere.

KDPhas also simplified all of the steps involvedinfinancial management anddisbursement so that many
kinds of stakeholders can easily understand and use them. There are no "hidden" charges allowed other
than those listedon the forms, and MoFratification includednotes to auditors that no other financial
reporting or license documents were to be used other than those negotiated with the project. All of the
basic formats attached to the appraisal report are the same as those used in the field.

Shine a bright light -- Transparency lies at the core of KDP's anti-corruption work, and it takes place in
three main arenas. First, there are a broad range of materials and procedures to ensure that all financial
information is both public and publically displayed within the villages. For example, local shopping price
quotations for materials must be read out loudinpublic meetings to be valid; signboards posted around
the villages state material and labor unit costs; and all bookkeeping i s managed by an elected
"implementation committee." Unlike standard practice, there isn't a single format inKDP that would
allow a lone official to withdraw or transfer funds: all require at least three signatures, includinggone
from an elected villager and a second from the project facilitator.

Second, as noted in the PCD text, KDP involves a broad range of entirely independent groups whose job
i s to inspect KDP sites for signs of irregularity. These groups have full access to KDP documents. The
provincialNGOs also have monthly meetings with the consultant and government management teams to
list the problems they encounter and review proposed corrective actions.

Third, the government management group has also taken many steps to ensurenational level
transparency. KDP i s the first World Bank project in Indonesia to send its audit summaries to civil
society oversight groups. Contract provisions and follow-up letters for the NGOmonitors provide them
with full discretion to share all findings, and the independent journalist contracts specify that there is no
prior review. For Year 3 of KDP, PMDi s publishing an expanded version of the problems database
summarized below in commonly read provincialnewspapers so that independent organizations can check



                                                      - 83 -

for themselves whether problems have been reported and fixed.

Respondto complaints-The last major element inthe strategy is to follow-up on reported cases of
corruption - and to be seen to be following up on corruption by the villagers and other stakeholders. KDP
has several channels for villagers to complain, including a well-used national "complaints box" whose
address i s printedon all village graphical materials. However, by far the most common source for
complaints are those relayedby or through the technical consultants. 77% of all complaints receivedby
the oversight team came from the field consultants themselves; an additional 7% were reported by Home
Affairs and 2% were sent through the mass media.

Table 1 summarizes the reporting and follow-up from KDP's first three years. This i s a national level
database, updated weekly, which is routinely shared with civil society watchdog groups, including the
press. At the provincial level, reports by field staff, villagers, and the monitors are logged in, reportedto
local government and the national team, and then pursuedevery two weeks untilresolved. In several
districts and provinces, increasingly active project coordination teams also pursue corruption problems.
Insome extreme cases they have removedabusive village headsandcamats (e.g. North Sumatra, South
Kalimantan) and succeeded ingetting missingfunds restored. More common than restoring funds i s
fixing bad quality infrastructure, and project files document several cases where corrective action plans
were proposedand implemented. Approximately 5% of the TA staff have also been replacedbecause of
corruption or lettingcorruption happen without reporting it. (By way of providing some perspective, the
database refers to a total of 55,000 village subprojects.)


  Type of Complaints




`definedas restoredoriginalprogram(i.e.money returned,works finished, etc)

KDP-1 also enforced a vigorous financial management improvement campaign for the national level
contracts. This included:

              letters from PMD and the companies to all field staff informing them of their salaries and
              entitlements;
              spot on-site inventory reviews of equipment and paycheck stubs;
        0     retroactive payment corrections as conditions for contract extensions (esp. for travel);
              semi-annual meetings with all companies to review their performance;
              spot ex post reviews of staff qualifications.
              replacement of recurrent offendingcompanies.

KDPdesignand corruption -- KDPsanti corruption action programconsists of three major sets of
actions. First,the project design uses a variety of procedures to minimize leakage during national level
procurement, contract management, and financial transfers, as discussed inthe relevant parts of this
PAD. Second, prior to appraising KDP-2in 2000, the project carried out an anti-corruption diagnostic
that supplemented project specific fiduciary requirements with an incentive map of opportunities for
corruption within the village planning process (Table 2). The village-level action plan usedthat mapto



                                                       - 84 -

     ~~              ~




identify opportunities for minimizing corruption risks, although it should be notedthat this i s an ongoing
process.

                                                 Ta' .e2: Incentive map of KDP
 STAGE                                               OPPORTUNITIESFOR CORRUPTION
I (1) Disseminationof information& selection of      Low
                                                       0 But   riskof nepotisminchoosing consultants
                                                         & elite capturefor later kickbacks
  (2) Socialization: villagers leamhow the project    Low
       works and what their rights are                 0 But   riskof elite capture
  (3) Villages prepareproposals                       High
                                                         Kickbacks with selection of TA; collusion;
                                                         budget-mark-ups;false groups formed to get
                                                         micro-credit
  (4) Technical teams look at theproposalsto see if Low
       they are feasible                               0 But   incentive to try to influence results of
                                                         assessmentinvillage's favor
  (5) Villages choose proposals that will be funded      LOW
                                                       0 But incentive to simply split funds among
                                                          villages: leads to bad projects
  (6) Preparationsfor implementation: funds are          High
       released                                        a Main threat is collusion among three
                                                          signatoriesof bank withdrawal to take a cut of
                                                          fundsbefore transferring to village
  (7) Implementation:                                     Extremelyhigh
         0 Materials are bought                        0  Most common source of corruption in KDP
           Village labor is mobilized                     (apart from operational funds & consultants'
         0 Roads & bridges are built                      payments) is with procurement of materials.
                                                          Implementation team buy cheaper materials
                                                          than those specified and pocket the difference.
  (8) Post-implementation:                                Medium
         0 Loans repaid; revolving funds set up        a Loanrepaymentsmanagedbadly; risk of
         0 Maintenanceof infrastructure                   corruption with user fees for maintenance.

KDP's design allows for graduated sanctions because funds cannot be released to the field unless the
facilitators are present to sign off on transfers. Removing the facilitators from the field location i s
relatively easy to carry out and has become a sanction preferred by M o H a as a response to supervision
findings.Conversely, once restitution has been made, the facilitator can be returned to the field and the
project continue.

Although initially reluctant to use this sanction, the Ministry o f Home Affairs has become increasingly
confident that it produces rapid results.In a number of cases, MoHa will temporarily suspend an entire
kecamatan untilcorruption problems reported by individual villages have been rectified. This i s an
effective remedy because it introduces peer pressure rather than making corruption entirely a matter o f
enforcement by the center.

Overallperformance-There are three major sources of evidence which suggest that there is less
corruption in KDP than most other community projects. First, KDP produces an average o f 20-25%
more output for the same input (ongoing studies will provide a more quantified report o f this early
finding).Technical reviews also conclude that output quality is the same or better. Second, interviews
with field staff and companies by Bank missions and reporters suggest a strong downwards trend in



                                                     - 85 -

diversions. A growing number newspaper reports and village self-reporting point to spillover effects:
villagers reject demands for kickbacks and in several cases have runpeople asking for bribes out of town.
Finally, independent reviews by profesionally qualified auditors (i.e. SGS)also report generally low
corruption levels inKDP subprojects.

So much for the good news. The badnews i s that (i) i s still corruption in KDP; (ii) all remedies
                                                       there                                  not
work; and (iii)  there has been little progress in improving the overarching fiduciary environment within
which the project must work. Local level collusion, often with district and village governments, remains
the single biggest source of problems. Of special difficulty has been the endemic tendency to avoid
sharing information, or limitingits access only to officials and elites. Another recurrent problemhas been
the harassment and the physical intimidation of staff who report corruption. Fear of reprisals inhibits
facilitator's willingness to report corruption, although reports from the facilitators still remain the best
source of information about diversions and leakage. Overall, the reporting of problems and their
disposition needs to be improvedand better protection providedfor the whistleblowers who are
threatened.

Sanctions and remedies -- Three of the project's consulting firms (of 19) were not extended inthe
project's second year because of concerns over delays or cuts inpayments to field staff. Not surprisingly,
the poorest and most isolated provinces have suffered most from corruption. A very informal group
discussion with government counterparts suggestedthat aggregate corruptionin KDP amounts to 10%
(project audits estimated that only 5% of funds could not be accounted for) but all such numbers mustbe
treated as working assumptions, at best.

B y and large official complaint channels have proved to be of little use and complaints to authorities
have not provided an effective corruption sanction. Nevertheless, there has beenprogress over time. In
KDP-1's final year, at least 15 legal cases were successfully brought against village and subdistrict
officials by communities worhng with NGOs andjustice officers. When pursuit of official corruption
happens, sanctions are nearly always the outcome of villager and consultant appeals to higher-level
officials, like bupatis, or the outcome of WB supervision follow-up, and are not due to a functioning,
accessible system of legal redress.

Central government response to the corruption problemhas been relatively encouraging. The project
management secretariate has expanded the programof legal assistance to KDP villages. They have also
initiated monthly meetings with the independent journalists and with the NGO vmonitors to review
progress on their findings. A particularly relevant indicator of growing government interest in the
anti-corruption work has been the suspension of two provinces because of failure to act on corruption
reports. In one case the suspension was lifted when the offendingparties were removed and the funds
returned, wihle inthe other the main district where the problems were happening was dropped from the
project entirely.

KDP-3's anti-corruption strategy

         KDP-3 extends the basic principles of the strategy outlined above, but it also adds some
additional elements. The most important new decision facing KDP-3's anti-corruption strategy will be
how to deal with decentralization. Decentralization in principle offers new opportunities to promote
government accountability. Inpractice, at least duringthe transition to a decentralized administration, the
opportunities for rent-seekingare more likely to rise than to fall. Nevertheless, just as center-district
relationships are being entirely re-worked, executive-legislative relationships are also a site of struggle.
KDP's anti-corruption strategy will chart a course through this broken landscape in the following ways:



                                                     - 86 -

         a. Technical assistanceprocurement will remain centralized (a pilot programunder VIP-2 to
            decentralize contracting to the provinces failed), although all field staff will be from their
            province;
        b. Increasingly deep involvement of DPRDs, including routine provisionof audit reports and
            the joint implementation monitoringteams;
         C. Carryingout spot audits from the center by the national management consultant company;
         d. Usingprior year performance as the basis for increasingeach district's KDP-2 allocations;
         e. Preparation of an on-site auditing manual that will be issued by MoF and distributed to all
            KDP participants with an MoFcover letter saying that no other auditing formats are allowed;
         f. Noprojects will be allowed to enter anew project year untilproblems inthe master MIS
            complaints database have been satisfctorily resolved;
         g. Distribution and public posting in each district of a unit cost price table based on real
            expenditures;
         h. More sharing of informationwith civil society watchdog groups.

         Inthepast,government commitmenttopursuingcorruptionproblems wasattimes lackadaisical
inpart becauseof the conflict of interest createdby the unifiedcivil service. That is, the district level
civil servants involved inunauthorizeddiversions were often outposted members of the same central
agencies. Sanctions by past or future colleagues were minimal, and usually taken only in response to
strong Bank (and a times, community) pressure.

         Decentralizationchanges this configuration somewhat. All of KDP's local implementing
agencies are now part of local government, not Jakarta line agencies and ministries. At least in theory,
the built-inconflict between regulation and implementation i s eliminated. Part of KDP3's anti-corruption
strategy, therefore, consists of encouraging the Jakarta group to exert their regulatory role more
forcefully. Evidence that there i s some willingness to move this way i s already appearing within the
current KDP:

             Strong PMD support for the idea of legal advocacy by usinguniversity-basedlawyers to help
             bringlegal cases against corruption inKDP;
        0    Suspending entire provinces and kabupaten inSouth Sulawesi and North Sumatra because of
             local corruption.
        0    Strong involvement in DPRD alliance-building;
        0    Good, critical audits by BPKP.

The World BankandCorruptioninKDP-- The Banks programfor KDP oversight involves anumber
of managerial innovations. OSUinvolvement incapacity assessment and prior reviews i s extended much
further. OSU staff routinely join field supervision, and they also organize hands-on short courses for task
teams and senior counterpart staff. Hands-on involvement inKDP's anti-corruption work provides a close
linkbetween the general institutional reformstratgy for fightingcorruption beingcoordinated through
OSU, and day-to-day practical actions in a large Bank-funded operation.

         Inaddition to KDP's collaboration with the WB OSUgroup, three additional activities promote
anti-corruption work in the project. First,because KDP i s managed through the resident mission, it i s
feasible to adopt a supervision strategy that involves constant rather than periodic oversight. Supervision
missions visit field sites every month.

         Second, the Bank plays a very active role inpursuingcorruption cases. Project supervision i s not



                                                    - 87 -

                                                                                                    ~~




done randomly: the project's MIS i s used to select cases where corruption or other anomalies have been
reported. The government and Bank pursue verified cases untilrestitution has been made or the
subproject suspended.

         Third, the Bank's ESW program on governance and anti-corruption includes several KDP-based
activities, such as the work on mapping corruption in CDD projects, a AAA activity on how poor
commnities can access the legal system, or a recently started program to conduct research on the
effectiveness of incentive and sanction regimes in community programs. While results from such
programs benefit the Bank's overall governance reformstrategy, they also provideimmediate benefits to
KDP implementation.

         Bank oversight for KDP-3 work can be strengthened in a number of ways. First, project appraisal
and first year supervision will pay special attention to the quality of the mechanisms for receiving and
respondingto complaints from the field. The Bank team will provide monthly reviews of this systemfor
the first six months of operation. Second, the Bank's new disclosure policy allows for a more in-depth
involvement by civil society organizations, particularly those concerned with transparency and
governance reforminIndonesia. Third, the pilot program to outsource auditing to private firms will be
extended to KDP-3. Last, duringappraisal, the Bank and government will agree on an appropriate regime
of sanctions for cases where corruption i s discovered.




                                                    - 88 -

                    Additional Annex 12: EnvironmentScreening Criteria
                     INDONESIA: Third Kecamatan Development Project

EnvironmentalScreening

Review of Experience to Date and Proposals for KDP-I11

Any construction activity will have some impact on the environment although the significance i s largely
proportional to the scale of the construction activity. The KecamatanDevelopment Programi s
concerned about preserving the environment, hoping that any negative effects from KDP activities can
be avoided or at least ameliorated. As part of preparationof the ThirdKDP Project, a review of
environmental management experience has been carried out and the results have been incorportedinto
the design of the proposedKDP-III.

This Annex:
         1. describes procedures for environmentalimpact analysis inIndonesia
         2. summarizes the general approach to environmental management that was taken on the first
             and second KDPprojects
         3. summarizes the results of a review of investments and impacts implemented during the third
             year of KDP-I, and,
         4. describes the proposals for incorporatingthe results of the review into the design of KDP-lII.

EnvironmentalImpact Analysis inIndonesia
The Kecamatan Development Programfollows official Indonesiangovernment policy inregards to
environmental impacts. The government has paidsignificant attention to the problems of environmental
impact. Government Regulation 29 of 1986 established the required methodologies for environmental
impact analyses. This regulation was supercededby Government Regulation 51 of 1993, which was
intended as deregulation and simplification. This regulation can also be seen as an attempt to improve
the quality of existing planning. Planned development activities were divided into two classes. The first
class includedthose activities that clearly have a large potential impact, which require a formal impact
analysis. The second class included those activities with relatively minor potential impacts, and for these
an explicit impact analysis was not required. According to the later Decree of the Minister for the
Environment No. 11of 1994 for Activities Obligated to be Supportedby Impact Analysis, the types and
sizes of activities undertaken by the Kecamatan Development Project are exempted from formal impact
analyses due to very small scale of investments and consturction activities supported.

Even though exempt from formal studies, planners of KDP infrastructure are required to consider
environmental effects. Inthe Second KDP, the planner i s a graduate civil engineer who works with the
local communities assisted by a village technical facilitator. Inanalyzing environmental effects, the
planner must be capable of imaginingall sorts of effects that mightarise as a result of the activity.
Environmental effects are defined as those changes that arise directly as a result of development
activities, both positive and negative. The types of problems encountered are determinedbased on the
experience of experts, the field experience of the planner ,interviews, literature, simulations and the like.
Analyses on KDP concern both effects occurring duringconstruction and those occurring during
operations.

An example of environmental effects for a rural roadcan be seen inthe table below, according to types
of impact:




                                                     - 89 -

Category I:Serious but local problems                    Category 2: Serous negative impact on environment
 e Water flow concentration                               e Sale of landto outsiders
 e Landslides                                           I   e Deforestation
 e Loss of productivelanddue to landslides                   Increasedsediment loaddue to roaderosion
Category 3: Negative effects of slight probability or    Category 4: Unclear effects, positive or
less important impact                                    negative

 e Air pollution fromvehicles                              e Increaseinuse of chemicalfertilizers and
 e Floodingdue to improper sitingof bridge                    pesticides
 e Increaseinairbomedust                                   e Establishment of small industriesthat pollute
 e Increaseincriminal activity inthe village               e Increasedintensityinfarmingor livestock
 e Noisepollution                                          e Residentsseek employment outsidethe village
                                                           e Movinghouses to roadside
                                                              Outsidersmove into the village
Category 5: Clearly positive impact                      Category 6: Negative impact, but clearly acceptable to
                                                         the local community
  e Reductioninerosionfrom agriculturallanddue to          e Traffic accidents
     applicationof improvedtechnologies                    e Loss of landrequiredfor roadwidening
  e Availability of constructionmaterials invillage
  e Increaseincommunication, includingaccess to
     healthand educationfacilities



Fromthe above table it can be seen that categories 1, 2, and 4 require special attention. Category One
includes problems of short-term impact even though the effects might be widespread. These are handled
through the application of standardized design and operational procedures which are implemented right
across the project. This i s also the case with deforestation and increased sediment from Category 2.
Approach to Controlling Environmental Impacts on KDP
The principle behind controlling environmental impacts in KDP is to limit possible negative effects and
to develop the positive effects of any infrastructure construction activity. As part of the planning
process, a checklist of potential environmental problems i s completed, which is then followed up during
and after implementationby the village and technical facilitator.

The determination of negative effects requires experience, coupled with the use of input from the various
existing manuals. Negative environmental effects for roads and bridges, for example, arise especially
from the dsturbances of unstable soils that are sensitive to landslides or from changes in the flow of
water. Excavation and embankment frequently result in landslides or erosion. Landslides bringwith
them four kinds of negative impact

                  disturbingtraffic (not an environmental problem, per se)
              0   endangering agricultural land or housing
                  increasing erosion because the soils are not compact
                  diverting the flow of rain water

Erosion of road sides can have large negative impact if the soil i s transported to productive land or if the
soil i s carried in suspension to a reservoir, as this will reduce its storage capacity. At the same time, both
landslides and serious erosion will result in unsightly scars near the road. Changes in water courses can
destroy productive lands or irrigation canals, as well as disturb the road itself.
The are four steps in the process of reducing environmental damage.



                                                       - 90 -

            0    identifying potential dangers
            0    selecting an alignment that reduces environmental disturbances
            0    utilizing civil works and vegetative treatments to limitnegative impacts
            0    undertaking maintenance and repairs in a timely fashion
The first two are the most efficient, and they are the responsibility of the surveyor and designer. A good
survey can truly reduce or eliminate many environmental problems. This i s emphasized in pre-service
training.

Roads are often locatedin critical lands that are sensitive to erosion and landslides, where soil types and
climate combine to multiply risks. The designer must consider a variety of treatments to build
infrastructure that will not harmthe environment while still bringingsustainable benefits. To analyze the
environmental effects one needs to record informationabout three things, as follows:
                 Treatments necessary to overcome environmental problems, including:

                 *    Changing the alignment to reduce steep grades

                 .    Movinghouses
                      Buildingcivil works to stabilize side slopes
                 *    Usingvegetative treatments to stabilize side slopes or prevent erosion
                 *    Usingspecial treatments to overcome the problemof ground water, such as drains

                 Negative environmental effects that mightstill exist after construction:
                 .    Side slopes that are unstable and endanger housing or agricultural land

                 ..   Excavation that results in the stockpiling of unstable soil
                      Sideslopes that are left bare, without any vegetative cover
                      The muddyingof rivers as a result of construction
                 *    Changes in the course of a stream, which could cause flooding, erosion, or
                      sedimentation
                      Changes in water flow that damage productive land
                      An increase inerosion and sediment as the result of uncontrolled discharge from

                 .    ditches or culverts
                      The cutting down of the forest

                 Socioeconomic problems that arise as the result of constructing a bridge or road.

                 These problems include the sacrifice of productive lands or other land holdings. If other
                 problems arise, it i s necessary to record any informationthat need to be considered about
                 the type and extent of the problem.

For water supply projects or sanitation projects, there i s always the possibility of increasing
contamination, for example a water source contaminatedby surface water entering from outside, or
ground water contaminated by a poorly designed or constructed waste control system. One also must
consider the formation of an operations and maintenance committee for water or sanitation projects.

EnvironmentImpact Control Strategy
The method used to ensure that proper attention i s paid to environmental problems i s a combination of
standard checklists and a special checklist for the environment.

For each type of subproject, a technical standard i s includedinproject manuals, and these include
considerations of environmental effects. For example, the magnitude of the grade of a road and the
steepnessof the cross-slope perpendicular to the road are limited. Drainage for the roadmustbe
installed, together with culverts to discharge water safely. Leeching fields from latrines have to located



                                                      -91 -

~  ~~               ~       ~~




at least ten meters from any water supply, and located downstreamas groundwater flows. Water supplies
cannot be located near any potential source of contamination.

The completion of the special checklist for the environment i s an obligatory part of the planning process.
Each type of project i s checked for the various treatments that must be performed on it to avoid or repair
environmental problems. At the midpoint of construction, the same form i s brought out to the field and
inspected again, at a time when it is still feasible to easily repair deficiencies. At the end of construction,
the form i s checked one more time against the original plan.

The kabupaten engineering consultant i s responsible for reviewing all infrastructure designs on KDP
projects in the kabupaten. He or she will reject any design not accompanied by a completed checklist,
and may also request clarification for any feature where a problemi s anticipated.

One other element of handling environmental problems i s the use of technical inspection forms, which
exist for many types of subprojects. Among the items inspected are those dealing with aspects of
environmental impact, such as for roads where the forms include slope protection, drainage ditches, and
shoulders. These forms are filled out incidentally by anyone who inspects the infrastructure.

Review of Experience on the FirstKecamatanDevelopment Project
A total of 14,175 small scale infrastructure projects were financed duringthe thirdyear of the first KDP
project. These were considered to be representative of investments in all years and all of them have been
classified into one of ten infrastructure development types and the investment costs tabulated. The
summary data are shown in the table from which the following conclusions can be drawn:
 i.ofthetencategoriesofdevelopment,onlyfiveareofatypewhichwouldraiseanypotentialconcern
      from an environmental point of view, namely; roads, irrigation, bridges, water supply and wharves.
ii.theaveragescaleofconstructionwasextremelysmall. Forexample,theaverageroadinvestment
      financed development of only 1.2hlometers of new road at a cost of about 36.6 million rupiah (US$
      4,100) per kilometer. Most of the irrigation development involved rehabilitation of small schemes
      although there was some new construction as well. To provide some perspective, for new
      construction, the average investment of around 25.3 million rupiah (US$2,850) would finance only
      five or six hectares of new, low-technology irrigation command. The other forms of development
      were similar: bridges include small scale steel girder bridges with wooden decks, concrete bridges,
      wooden bridges, and suspension bridges; water supplies come from a variety of sources, but mostly
      come from springs and dug wells. Most distribution systems are gravity fed, but some utilize
      electrical or diesel pumps.




                                                      - 92 -

~~         ~~             ~~




                                          Infrastructure inYear Three of KDP




       Field oversight reviews have not identified significant or recurrent environmental impacts. Site visits by
       oversight engineers and the national project management database record environmental concerns, and
      these were reviewed during the appraisal o f KDP-2 and KDP-3. Bank supervision missions also include
       environmental impact specialists as well as engineers with environmental training.

       Nevertheless, some environmental issues were reported to the KDP complaints unit and some typical
       examples are set out in the following table along with comments, where appropriate, on possible control
       strategies that could be used to avoid similar problems inthe future.

                                   Sample Cases of Environmental ImDact inKDP
               Location                      Activity              EnvironmentalImpact                    Comment

       Kecamatan Sosopan,         Irrigation project Aek         Causeddownstreamareas to     Incorporate standardguideline
       South Tapanuli, North      Bustak                         suffer drought from lack of  requiring design engineer to
       Sumatra                                                   flow                         check effects of incremeental
                                                                                              water demandon downstream
                                                                                              users.

      Lancap Jae,                Use of heavy equipment in       Disturbedwildlife inthe      Largely unavoidable and only of
       KecamatanArse             constructing anew road          surrounding forest           short termeffect. No special
                                                                                              safeguards recommended

      Riauprovince               Construction of a roadleading Became a linkinthe             Potentially significant but
                                 to protectedforests             transportation of illegal    difficult problemto deal with.
                                                                 logging                      One option might be to include a
                                                                                              prohibition of such investments
                                                                                              inthe negative list.

      Tana Toraja, South         Culverts ingeneralbuilt         Inrelativelyflat areasthe    Failure to follow good design
       Sulawesi                  without protective structures   uncontrolled discharge       principles. Need to find out why
                                 including wingwalls, drop       damagedfield or orchards.    communities or their engineering
                                 structures, and lined discharge                              advisers were not applying
                                 channels.                       Inmountainousareas ledto
                                                                 landslides on the sideslopes standarddesign safeguards.
                                                                 of the road.

      ~
      Cilacap, Central Java       Construction of a bridge       Reduction inflow area        Failure to follow good design
                                  with a reduction inthe         causedthe streamto           principles. Need to findout why
                                  wetted perimeter of the        overflow, causingdamage to   communities or their engineering
                                  channel                        productive ricefields.       advisers were not applying
                                                                                              standarddesign safeguards.



                                                             - 93 -

Ingeneral, the number of complaints formally recorded inthe systemwas quite small. This maybedue
to one or a combination of three reasons:

         0    A lackof importance associated with environmental problems. There is not yet a
              widespread appreciationfor environmental dangers, such as dynamiting reefs to free coral
              for use as a roadbuildingmaterial or buildingaccess roads into protected forests.

         0    An inability to identify environmental problems.

         0    A reluctance to report problems upwards
ProposedResponsesfor KDP-I11
The review illustrated several key facts:
     i.thebasicenvironmentalimpactpotentialofinvestmentssupportedthroughtheprojectislowso
        the general strategy followed under KDP-Iremains relevant;
    ii.nevertheless,thedeskreviewsuggestedthatasmallnumberofenvironmentalissueswere
        encountered. Most of the issues had their origin in apparent failures to follow best civil
        engineeringpractice and it i s likely that these can be addressedthrough continued training and
        supervision of engineering staff providingtechnical advice to participating kabutpatens; and
    iii.thesmallnumberofenvironmentalcomplaintsmadetotheKDPcomplaintsunitmaybea
        reflectionof the very low adverse impact potentials of investments supported under the project
        butit also couldbe a reflection of lack of interest inenvironmental issues on the part of
        beneficiaries or a reluctanceto report problems upwards.

These three items have been addressedin the design of KDP-2 and KDP-3. It has been made clear that
the national government, the donor, and the national consultants place highimportance on attention to the
environment. It i s the responsibility of the kecamatan facilitators to explain the basis for this to the
villages and to monitor implementation. Causing environmental damage i s enough to cancel an activity.
Not paying attention to the environment i s enough to have the facilitator replaced. This attention to the
environment i s equally important at the kabupaten level, where the kabupaten consultants and especially
the kabupaten engineering consultant must enforce environmental standards. Inaddition, the following
items have been added to the project's negative list (reflected in the project's legal documents):

Inaddition, the following items have been addedto the project's negativelist

        0   procurement of any products containing asbestos
        0   procurement of pesticides or herbicides
        0   production, processing, handling,storage or sale of tobacco or products containing tobacco
        0   any activities within a nature reserve or any other area designated by the Government of
            Indonesiafor the management andor protection of biodiversity except with the prior explicit
            and written approval of the government agency responsible for the management andor
            protection of that area
        0   miningor excavation of live coral
        0   water resources developments on rivers which flow into or out of other countries
        0   alterations to river courses
        0   land reclamation larger than 50 ha.
        0   new imgation larger than 50 ha.
        0   construction of water retaining or storage structures of capacity greater than 10,000 cubic



                                                     - 94 -

             meters

InKDP-3, eachkabupaten andeachkecamatanis servedby a graduate engineer, who hasbeen provided
with training to help them identify and avoidpotential environmental problems. There was much
emphasis placed inpre-service training on the ability to anticipate problems, including environmental
problems. Inthe first KDP, there were few engineers at the kecamatan level, so many technical problems
of the type identified in the above table remained undetected- the outside persons hiredto design and
supervise construction had little interest inmakingproblems for themselves.

Reluctance to report problems i s widespread in most projects. Problems will be reported faithfully only
if several conditions are met:

        0    There are no negative effects from reporting problems
        0    There are positive results from reporting problems, i.e. help i s given
        0    There are negative effects from not reporting problems

The design of KDP-3 attempts to address all three of these conditions. Reporting of problems i s a major
point inthe performance evaluation system. Problems that are reported are discussed and handled at
monthly meetings, and doing this is a major point in the performance evaluation of kabupaten
consultants. The first item i s connected with the attitude of senior consultants, government officials, and
donor representatives when confronted with reportedproblems. They should perceive these reports as
evidence that the system i s working and as opportunities to improveperformance inthe field.

Success inthe field depends upon the discipline of project actors meeting these three conditions, which i s
a task for senior management. A review of the effectiveness of these measures will be includedinthe
first-year evaluation and measures for correction will be agreed with the Bank prior to the approval of the
second year program.




                                                    - 95 -

     Additional Annex 13: Guidelines for Resettlement, Land and Asset Acquisition
                      INDONESIA: Third Kecamatan Development Project

I. GUIDELINESANDPRINCIPLESFORLANDACQUISITIONINKDP
Duringthe construction of village infrastructure it is nearly inevitable that some land, crops, trees,
houses, or other assets might need to be acquired to allow the most effective, efficient, and beneficial use
of resources. For example, existing village paths are often upgraded to become all-weather roads with
slightly wider runningsurfaces, plus shoulders and drainage ditches. The so-called right-of-way
therefore needs to be increased one or two meters, and this can only happen if the landbordering the road
i s acquired. Similarly, it i s not always possible or desirable to locate water supplies, latrines, bridges,
markets, orjetties on communally heldland.
KDPhas a simple policy framework and set of operational procedures to guide cases of land acquisition
invillage subprojects. The objective of these guidelines is to ensure that no family affectedby land
acquisition experiences a material reduction in their income, living standards, or livelihoods.
Implementation of these guidelines i s built into the project oversight and facilitator terms of reference,
and the project provides both internal and independent monitoring of their implementation.

Minimizingacquisition

The ThirdKecamatanDevelopment Project follows the same acquisition procedures as the first two
KecamatanDevelopment Projects. Policy guidelines and procedures meet the standards of World Bank
policies on resettlement. K D P s guidelines and reporting formats are incorporated into the project
operating manual and are tracked through the MIS. The overarching objective of K D P s guidelines i s to
ensure that the acquisition of lands is minimized and does not result in persons losing their home or
suffering any decline inincome, livelihood, or living standards as a result of the project. All proposals
mustbe reviewed and their location, alignment, or specifications changed as necessary. Proposals to
widen roadright-of-ways must also be reviewed carefully.

As it will not be possible inmany cases to eliminate the needfor acquisition, the guidelines allow for
acquiring assets through the following two methods:

          a.     Voluntarilv In accordance with local custom, community members have the right to
                 donate their land or other assets or to move their homes temporarily or permanently
                 without seelung or being given compensation;
         b.      Donated with compensation. Persons who donate their land or other assets have the right
                 to seek and receive compensation.
Voluntary contribution of land and other assets is quite common in Indonesianvillages, assuming that no
individual loses too significant a portion of their land. Losing a meter or two of landon the side of the
roadi s quite attractive to farmers, who will then have an all-weather roaddirectly abutting their fields.
Voluntary contribution for other purposes besides KDPi s not unusual. Paying compensation for land i s
also beyond the financial capacity of the village.
Providingappropriate compensation
Guidelines have been established to manage compensation for persons in the second category so that all
these persons improve or at least hold steady their quality of life, income, and production capacity
comparedto pre-project conditions.




                                                      - 96 -

Principleof Compensation      -- The village must guarantee that one of the following methods was used
in timely fashion to compensatethe persons who were affectedby the project (but project funds
absolutely cannot be used for compensation):

        a.       landwas replacedwith other land of equal productivity, or with other productive assets
                 of equal value
        b.       materials and labor were given to replace permanent structures that were removed

        c.       plants destroyed or missing or damaged were compensated in accordance with their
                 value
        d.       other acceptable compensation was given

Principleof Consultation The village mustensure that all the people affected by the project are
                            --
consulted at a public meetingInthe village. Duringthis meeting, their right to compensation must be
explained, as well as such alternatives as found in the guidelines. Formalminutes of the meetingare
made and must include the main points of discussion as well as any decisions reached, including:

        a.       for voluntary contributions, the name of the donor and details of the donation:




                                                      Affected       Compensation          Additional
                                                       Assets           Promised           Agreements
          1.Agricultural land (m')
        2. Other lands
           Area affected (mz)
            Houses or buildings (units/mz)
         3. Plants affected by the project

        c.       Inaddition, the minutes will contain the signatures of the affected persons andthe village
                 chief. There will be notes about complaints made by the affected persons. And there
                 will be a map showing the location of the affected assets.

The kecamatan facilitator will deliver a copy of the above notes to all those people who are affected by
the project, to determine directly their wishes inregards to compensation, their perception of whatever
agreements hadbeen reached, and their complaints (if any).

Projectapproval
As the process of determining compensation is the responsibility of the village, wherein the facilitator
has no decision-mahng power, the kecamatan facilitator i s boundto do the following:

             a. He or she must delay final approval until all persons affected by the project are satisfied
                 with the compensation they are to receive, even if this causes utter stalemate, the
                 changing of designs, and interminable negotiations. Outsiders mustnot intervene to
                 impose a solution.

             b. He or she must delay implementation untilcompensation is realized. Whenever a project
                 has reached the implementation stage, the senior consultants, government officials, and
                 donor should assume that compensation has been successfully delivered.

             c. Inprinciple, if more than 200 persons are affected and require compensation, a


                                                    - 97 -

                 compensation plan must producedand then agreed to by the Secretariat of the National
                 Coordination Team prior to project approval. In the six years of the VIP and three years
                 of KDP this has never occurred.

Right to voice complaints and take legal action

All complaints should be handled and solved at the village level. If the problemcannot be solved inthe
village, complaints and legal action against these guidelines, the implementation of agreements found in
the minutes, or other grievances can be filed by the person affected or his or her representative to the
kecamatan. If still not solved, it can be further submittedfor a decision by the Bupati. Complaints also
can be sent to the Complaints HandlingUnit of KDP at the regional or national level, where they will be
analyzed and an investigation organized.

Verification

At any time, all records regarding compensation, includingminutes of the meetingandproof of receiving
compensation must be available for inspection by the kecamatan facilitator, kabupaten management
consultants, auditors, and persons assigned to monitor aspects of the project by the project Secretariat or
National Management Consultants. The Village Minutes and evidence of compensation having been
made shall be provided to the kecamatan empowerment facilitator assisting the village, to supervising
engineers, auditors and socio-economic monitors when they undertake reviews under the project.

KDPlexperience

Aside from the national oversight team and the implementation consultants, KDPi s well-monitored by
more than 30 independent NGOs and the media. TOR for the NGOs specify that problems associated
with land acquisition should be checked on site and any problems reported. NGO and media reporting i s
not censored or confined to govemment transmission routes, so this form of monitoringprovides a useful
check on safeguard performance independent of the project implementation structure. There have not
been any reports of involuntarydisplacement, and only a very small number of cases of land
compensation disputes have been reportedby either group of monitors.
Supervision by the World Bank has also never reported any case of families beinginvoluntarily displaced
by either VIP or KDP, but, as noted above, there are cases both of facilitators not following the rules and
also cases of the rules being followedbut families nevertheless dissatisfied with their outcome. However,
Bank missions have never found cases of people visibly losing significant productive resources or
experiencing drops in income, livelihood, or living standards because of a KDP project. Ingeneral, the
Bank's field reviews suggest that lack of govemment involvement in KDP whether by national or local
agencies seems to limit land acquisition to a bare minimum, and where it does happen, direct negotiations
by villagers with the community councils produces outcomes that meet the Banks policy objectives of
safeguarding against adverse impacts.

Conclusion
While no process of land acquisition will ever be fully free of problems, KDP's small size and the need
for a local-level consensus does appear to provide an effective control system that minimize the scope
anddimpact of land acquisition. KDP3 will continue to monitor impacts closely.




                                                    - 98 -

           Additional Annex 14: Indigenous Peoples-Special Programfor Papua
                     INDONESIA:Third Kecamatan Development Project

Overview

Indonesian communities covered by the World Bank's policy on indigenous people can generally
be classified as falling into one of three categories.First, there are small pockets of highly
isolated, vulnerable groups such as the Mentawai or other small island populations. Such groups
can easily be adversely affected by development projects because of unfamiliarity with modern
market mechanisms, cultural and administrative prejudices against them, or inability to retain
control over productive andnatural resources.

A secondcategory refers to the muchlarger ethnic populations which meet most of the World
Bank's typological requirements (own language, sense of identity, traditional attachments) but
exhibit varying degrees of vulnerability. Populations such as the so-called Dayak of Kalimantan
or the tribal groups of NusaTenggaraTimor fit here.

The thirdgroup refers to heterogenouscommunities, where a segment of the population i s
culturally or economically marginalized. Several of the fishing populations of the eastern islands,
for example, have unique identities and also occupy subordinate positions within local social
structures.

Review of Experience-- As aproject that begins from startingprinciples of grassroots
participationand flexible project designs determined through local planning, KDP didnot
anticipate any significant adverse impacts on indigenous or culturally distinct populations and
none have been found during project supervision. Test cases specifically supervised for this
purpose have included the Baduy, on Java, who as a rule reject outside development projects, and
indigenous communities on the island of Nias, near West Sumatra, Inboth cases KDP practice
proved highly adaptive. InBaduy the project didnot enter untilit was approachedby traditional
leaders and the terms of encounter negotiated and recorded by both sides. InNias, KDP has
experienced several implementation problems becauseof its isolation and the deeply hierarchical
village structures, but again no adverseimpacts couldbe identified. General supervision inthe
eastem islands also failed to turnup any systemic adverse impacts on ethnic minorities. Specific
measuresinthe project designthat appear to promote culturally appropriate activities include the
villager's own election of their representatives to the project, use of sub-village planning units,
and flexibility infacilitator's operational funds that allows them to support traditional rituals.

The project design itself has also proven to be somewhat more flexible than anticipated when it
first started. Thus, inprovinces such as Aceh or West Sumatra, where kin-based descent units
also carry out important administrative functions, the project produced special guidelines that
used these traditional unitsrather than the standardkecamatan desa structure. (Both provinces
benefited inthis respect from the 2001decentralization laws). Needlessto say, inparallel with
the increaseduse of culturally apposite forms of social organization has come an entirely new
generation of problems associatedwith the people excluded by traditional social structures, such
as, for example, women, immigrants or low status groups. These problems do not have easy



                                                - 99 -

solutions. For the moment the primary means for addressingthem i s through better facilitation,
with some trials (i.e. inAceh) to work with traditional leaders on makingtheir group's workings
more inclusive.

Special Programfor Papua -- While implementation and ex post reviews failed to turn up any
significant or recurrent pattern of adverse impacts from KDP on indigenous communities, in
several of the more culturally isolated areas the lack of technical capacity limited the benefits that
indigenous communities received from KDP. Some of KDP's planningfeatures, such as the use
of kecamatans rather than villages for decision-making, also required change. Nowhere was this
more true that inthe easternmostislandof Indonesia, the province of Irian JayaPapua.

KDPhasbeen active inPapuasince its inception, and inKDP-2 the program hasexpandedinto
nearly every kabupaten. As inother areas, the program inPapuahas the goal of empowering
villagers to undertake their own development through a process of village and kecamatan-wide
meetings with the facilitation of consultants. Villages have undertaken the construction of
infrastructure as well as group economic activities. Local governments have been eager to
expand KDP activities, funding more kecamatans with district-level funds than any other
province. KDP i s ahighly popular program throughout Papua, as evidenced by the fact that there
i s a higher percentage of local governments contributing their own counterpart funds so that more
kecamatans can be covered by KDP than anywhere else inIndonesia.

However, the mid-termreview of KDP-1showed there have been two main problems that have
constrained KDPperformance inPapua. The first i s that the special cultural, geographical, and
economic conditions of the province mean that the standardprovisions of the national
community development project required adjustment to perform inthe local environment. To
that end, in2002 KDP created a special project manual for Papua. The manual was developed by
a working group made up of the KDP technical team, independent PapuanNGOs, and the
provincial government.

 The manual was introduced through socialization workshops ineachkabupaten, and then piloted
for a first roundbefore beingadopted for the entire province. Featuresof the manual include
much greater use of villages rather than kecamatans as the organizing unit (because of distance
and sociological variations), increased operational allowances, involvement of traditional
leadership, and so on. This manual is a public document andcopies are inthe subdistrict meeting
hall of every kecamatanthatjoins KDP as well as with the NGO andjournalist monitors.
 KDP'strainingprograminPapua-- The secondconstraint is that it hasbeenvery difficult to
findqualifiedlocalpersonsto take the positions of kecamatananddistrict consultants, even as
there has been evermore insistence that these positions be filled with native residents of Papua.
Despite an energetic recruitment campaign, positions couldnot be filled with local people
meeting the same qualifications as inother provinces, especially for technical positions. In
KDP-2, each kabupaten has two consultants, a civil engineer and an empowerment consultant;
each kecamatanhas at least two facilitators, a civil engineer and at least one empowerment
facilitator. The civil engineers are neededto ensure that whatever infrastructure i s selectedcan
be builtby the villagers, are designedproperly, and constructed to a reasonablestandard of
quality. Pastcommunity development projects from abroad range of donors and NGOs shows


                                               - 100 -

     ~~




that employing unqualifiedconsultants quickly leads to poor quality and rapidly destroyed
infrastructure.
 The shortagesof qualified engineer is areflection of the generallack of participation by Papuans
inuniversities andtechnical schools. Thus, filling KDPs technical slots with Papuanswas not
going to be a function of simply making salary rates more attractive - salary levels for Papua
work on KDP are already significantly higher than national averages. Instead, inkeeping with the
general social development goals of KDP, the KDP team developed an an educational program
for over 200 young Papuansto fill technical facilitator positions. Objectives of this special
program for Papuawere twofold-first to meet the KDPproject's needs for qualified Papuansto
work inthe kecamatansand villages, but second, to develop an operational and replicable
methodology for promoting Papuanhuman capital development through routine investment
projects.
The methodology for recruitingthe candidateconsultants was designed to involve the local
commmunities as much as possible. An orientation was conducted for eachkecamatan, wherein
each village was told about the education program by a local NGO hiredto facilitate the
orientations. The attendees returned to their villages and helpedtheir respective villages select
one or two persons as candidates from the kecamatan. Representativesof all the villages inthe
kecamatan screenedthe applicants and selectedthree candidatesby voting, with at least one man
and one woman selected. While not every kecamatanfollowed the guidelines religiously, about
90% of the candidates seemedto meet all the criteria.
The training i s being done locally at Cendrawasih University inJayapura, utilizing twelve
technical trainers with previous experience invillage infrastructure programs elsewherein
Indonesia. The technical and project managementpartsof the curriculum were developed by the
instructors, allocating about twenty percent of the material developed by local instructors. The
graduates of this program will receive the equivalent of a first level diploma from the University.
The curriculum includes the basics of a good technical education, emphasizing mathematics,
technical drawing, materials science, structural calculations, earth science, basic hydraulic
calculations, basic irrigation design, and lots of construction management and practices. The
localportion of the curriculum includes information from Papuanhistory, anthropology,
ethnology, and sociology. A portion of the training was reserved for skills inlateral thinking,
training design and delivery, facilitation, and long-termvisioning. The last three weeks of the
training introduces the basics of the KDPprocess and the duties of kecamatan facilitators.

The results of the educational program have astoundednearly everyone connected with it or
visiting it. From shockingly low level of skills demonstrated duringapre-test, the participants
have acquired a reasonablelevel of engineering knowledge and skills. Ninety percent of the
participants stayed with the program from the beginning, as the inappropriate ten percent dropped
out. The participants have also demonstrated their capabilities by constructing civil works off
campus, including a bridge, a road, repairs to a nonfunctioninglocal water supply system, and a
wharf for fishing boats. The students are punctual, often work into the night on their own
initiative, and manage themselves through a system of representatives who negotiate directly
with the instructors and with the University administrators. In-class discipline was high.
The training was completed inmid-April2003. The graduates will be assigneddirectly to the


                                                -101 -

   ~                       ~       ~~~~~




KDPprogramintime for the first year of implementation of KDP-2. The graduateswill be
assignedback to their home kecamatans, with two or three graduatesinmost kecamatans, inpart
to make up for the size of kecamatansinPapuaand partly to support each other as fresh
graduates from a beginners' course incivil engineering. Some graduateshave elected to serve in
other kecamatans for personal reasons.
Next steps -- Under KDP-3 the graduateswill continue their education during their first year in
the field through a program of on-the-job training and coaching by their former technical
instructors. One of the first tasks of the facilitators inthe field will be to assist the villages in
identifying two persons to be trained as village facilitators, amanand a woman. One of the two
will be especially trained to handle technical matters, the other will specialize inempowerment.
It i s hoped that beingexposedto good training for six months, the new graduateswill be able to
empathize with the village facilitators and give them good training and advice, as most of them
come from similarbackgrounds and level of formal education (secondary school). Performance
of both the graduates and their instructors will be part of the routine NGO and project
monitoring. Approximately $0.5 millionhave beenbudgeted to support the program, with the
possibilities of increaseif more funds are needed.
The overall KDPprogram inPapuais supervised by aregional coordinator basedinJayapura,
assistedby two deputies and a small team of facilitators specifically responsible for training, the
management information system, and complaint handling. They have general responsibility for
the success of this program as well. Although KDP-3 will concentrate on field-level support for
the graduates, there have also been some discussions with district government and some of the
large private companies to re-start the core classroom program later on using counterpart support.
KDP-3 design includes a small allocation to develop a larger-scale program that would allow
more local graduates to develop professional skills.




                                                  - 102 -

MAP SECTION


