Document of
The World Bank                   FLE CPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re"ort No. P-2916-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
PREINVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
December 1, 1980
f This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cordoba (g)
US$1          =   10
¢ 1           = US$.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 Manzana      =       0.699 hectares
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BND              National Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
CABEI            Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
COIP             People's Industrial Corporation
(Corporacion Industrial del Pueblo)
CORFIN           National Finance Corporation
(Corporacion Financiera)
ENABAS           National Company for Domestic Supplies
(Empresa Nacional de Abastecimientos)
FED               Special Development Fund
(Fondo Especial de Desarrollo)
FINAPRI          Preinvestment Fund
(Financiera de Preinversion)
FIR              International Reconstruction Fund for Nicaragua
(Fondo Internacional para la Reconstruccion
de Nicaragua)
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamerifcano de Desarrollo)
INAA             Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Agua y Alcantarillado)
INE              Nicaraguan Energy institute (formerly ENALUF)
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Energia)
INRA             Nicaraguan Land Reform Institute
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Reforma Agraria)
MIDA             Ministry of Agricultural Development
(Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
OPEC             Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
USAID            US Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
PREINVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Nicaragua
-Beneficiary:                 Financiera de Preinversion (FINAPRI)
Amount:                      3.9 million SDRs (equivalent to US$5.0 million).
Terms:                       Standard
Relending Terms:             The proceeds of the credit would be channeled
through the Ministry of Finance to FINAPRI on
standard IDA terms. FINAPRI would relend the
funds at 8% per annum for terms of up to 10 years
including 1 to 2 years of grace. The proceeds
from the spread between these terms would be
retained by FINAPRI to build up its capital.
Project Description:         The project's main objective is to assist the
newly established Government institution, FINAPRI,
to help generate both public and private sector
investment projects. It provides for the funding
of (a) consultant's services to prepare high
priority investment projects in key productive and
social sectors; and (b) technical assistance to
FINAPRI and its borrowers. The project does not
involve any special risk other than the risks of
possible delays in implementation which may arise
due to FINAPRI's lack of experience.
Estimated Costs:                                        ---US$ million equivalent--
Local     Foreign      Total
Sub-loans                   1.8         4.3        6.1
Technical Assistance          -          .1          .1
Total                       1.8         4.4        6.2
Financing Plan:                                         --- US$ million equivalent--
Local     Foreign      Total
Government                  1.2           -         1.2
IDA                          .6         4.4        5.0
Total                       1.8         4.4        6.2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Disbursements:
-      US$ million equivalent …
Bank FY:         1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual           .05       .95    1.60    1.60       .80
Cumulative       .05      1.00    2.60    4.20    5.00
Economic
Rate of Return:               Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:             None.  Trhis is a combined President's/Appraisal
Report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA FOR A PREINVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
1.       I1 submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Nicaragua for 3.9 million SDRs,equiva-
lent to US$5.0 million,on standard IDA terms to help finance a proposed pre-
investment fund project. The credit will be channeled through the Ministry
of Finance to the Financiera de Preinversion (FINAPRI). FINAPRI, a newly
established public agency responsible for assisting the public and private
sectors in identifying and carrying out preinvestment work, would receive
the funds on standard IDA terms from the Government. It would onlend the
funds on terms up to ten years, including one to two years of grace, at
an interest rate of 8 percent. The spread between the IDA terms and the
on-lending terms would be retained by FINAPRI to build up its capital. About
US$100,000 of the credit has been earmarked to finance technical assistance
to FINAPRI and its sub-borrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last Bank economic report, "Memorandum on Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Prospects of Nicaragua" (2061-NI), was circulated to the Board on
June 30, 1978. Two emergency loans and credits presented to the Board in
December 1979, contained the analysis of a mission which visited Nicaragua
in September 1979 to review the emergency conditions the post-revolutionary
Government faced. This section of the President's Report reflects informa-
tion obtained during a brief visit by the country economist in July 1980.
An economic mission is presently in Nicaragua and its report will be distributed
to the Board in the first half of 1981.
3.        Nicaragua is a country rich in land resources.  Agriculture repre-
sents about one-quarter of GDP, employs nearly half of the labor force and
generates about 70 percent of commodity export earnings. The country is
divided into three distinct agricultural areas. The Pacific Zone, where about
60 percent of the nation's 2.6 million people live, is characterized by two
types of farming - a great number of small farms grow basic grains with
conventional technology, while a few large plantations use modern technology
and specialize in cotton and sugarcane; the mountainous Central District is
devoted primarily to the production of coffee and livestock; and the extensive
underpopulated Atlantic Plain holds a largely unutilized potential for addi-
tional agricultural production, including forestry, tree crops and livestock.
4.        Nicaragua is a relatively small economy, very open to the outside
world. It has had a record of high economic growth (nearly 6 percent per
year in the last three decades) and very low rates of inflation prior to 1972.
Population has been increasing at an annual rate of over 3%. Income growth
has basically been the result of the expansion and the adoption of modern
methods of production for commodity exports, primarily coffee, cotton, beef,
sugar, and shrimp. Industry has been growing in importance; prior to the
revolutionary war this sector represented about 28 percent of GDP. Exports
of manufactured goods, mainly to the Central American Common Market, were
close to 30 percent of total exports.



2-
5         This substantial longa-term growth was not accompanied by parallel
social developmient.  The limited availability of key public services, such
as educationi ar,d health9 reflected, in part, budgetary stringency dictated by
insuff icient rev:e,ndu-
6.        T).e armed struggli that preceded the establishment of the Government
of National Reconstruction in July 1.979, was extremely costly for Nicaragua.
More than 30,00CO people lost their lives, and many more fled the country.
While many ba-E ret-Irned, so me very capable and skilled people have remained
abroad.  In addition, the revolutionary war seriously damaged the nation's
industrial urod'luctiv  capac:ity and had disastrous effects on the financial
system.  It is estimated that the direct damage to physical structures, equip-
ment and in-.7entormes was approximately US$250 million.  The flight of capital
prior to and dtring the conflict exceeded half a billion dollars, and many
banks and industrial and commercial enterprises became insolvent.
7.        A very difficult recovery period has ensued.  The new Government
embarked riulca:musly on the tasks; oil economic recovery and social transfor-
mation.  An atmosphere of law and order and fiscal probity has been achieved
amidst profound social and economic changes and sweeping institutional reforms.
The reorganized Government bureaucracy, although largely inexperienced, is
committed to improving the living conditions of the population and to increas-
ing production.  The new regime has indicated that it will maintain a mixed
economy, in which the public sector will be directly involved in the regulation
of the economic process, and will exert a sizeable degree of control over the
allocation- of investment   In addition to confiscating the Somoza family's
land holdings and industria:L and comimercial enterprises, the Government has
nationalized the banking system, the insurance companies, foreign trade, the
mining sector and much of the mass communication system.  The public sector's
participation in agricultural production is about 20 percent, in manufacturing
25 percent, and in the service sectors more than 50 percent. The total share
of the publi.c sector in the country's GDP has risen from 15 to 40 percent.
8.        The machinery of Government has been extensively reorganized:  a num-
ber of new ministries have been created, new institutions have been developed;
and practically all Government and autonomous public agencies have undergone
reorganization. In particu:Lar, the financial system has been totally restruc-
tured and ministries have been established to handle the nationalized sectors
of agriculture, irndustry and trade.  The Government is now headed by a
five member Junta of National Reconstruction that is backed by the Directorate
of the Sandinista Front of National Liberation.  There is also a Council of
State, where business and professional groups have some representation.
Efforts have-been mlade to strengthen the planning process, and the planning
council has beeni raised to the ministerial level. An emergency program was
adopted as soon as the war ended; a formal program of economic reactivation
was drafted for 1980, and the degree of target achievement during the first
half was recently evaluated; an economic plan for the year 1981 is currently
being drafted.
The Nicarag a  Economy During the First Year of the New Regime
9.        Tne revolutionary struggle which culminated in the toppling of the
Somoza regime left: Nicaragua financially insolvent and with a highly damaged
productive apparatus. Manufacturing production declined by nearly one-third



- 3 -
in 1979 as a result of the destruction of factories and inventories and the
loss of managerial personnel; during the first half of the year, private
investment shrank to a minimum, and construction nearly stopped. Agricultural
production was seriously affected. The slaughter of immatt> beef cattle
and the smuggling of herds outside the country severely compromised beef
production for the coming years. Urban unemployment and underemployment
reached alarming levels (the combined rate was more than 30%). Real GDP
dropped by 27% in 1979 - in addition to the decline of 9% it had suffered in
1978. The income forgone during the period 1978 through 1980 will surpass one
billion dollars.
10.       A very significant loss for the country was the drop in export
proceeds. Exports constitute the chief driving force of the Nicaraguan
economy, as they represent one-third of GDP, and are a major source of employ-
ment. Although export proceeds derived from the 1978-1979 crop remained high
during the first half year, the foreign exchange earned was largely syphoned
out of the country. The 1979-1980 agricultural season was disrupted by the
war; both production and exports were affected. Farmers failed to plant
cotton, and production of coffee, sugar and beef dropped substantially.
Although high international prices of sugar and cotton offset some of the
possible losses of foreign exchange, total export receipts from goods and
services will probably decrease by US$230 million between 1978 and 1980 - in
real terms, a drop of 37%.
11.       Faced with an enormous curtailment of domestic supply and conditions
of financial insolvency, both on the national and international fronts, the
new Government braced itself for a very difficult first year. Efforts were
made to increase domestic supply, but in practice, the recession in the indus-
trial sector and the losses in agricultural production were essentially offset
only through increased imports. Inflation was kept down by the increased
imports, made possible by a large inflow of external financing, and by price
controls implemented through the Empresa Nacional de Abastecimientos (ENABAS).
12.       During the first year following the revolutionary war, international
organizations and a number of countries provided Nicaragua with substantial
amounts of external loans and credits and balance-of-payment financing--commit-
ments totaled approximately three-quarters of a billion dollars. Donations in
cash and goods amounted to more than US$130 million (plus considerable direct
technical assistance).  The other cotntries of Central America granted US$125
million in lines of short-term credit for trade financing. Bilateral grants
and loans from the developed and OPEC countries and reoriented loans from AID
added another US$158 million.  Undisbursed loans obtained before July, 1979
from the World Bank Group, IDB and CABEI, totaled US$118 million and new loans
obtained since that date, US$181 million; of this last sum only US$33 million
had been disbursed through June 1980. Disbursement levels rose considerably
during the second half of the year, but the scarcity of prepared projects
continued to be an important constraint on disbursements.
13.       The first months of 1980 were a period of relative fiscal equilibrium.
Surprisingly high fiscal revenues, derived from new taxes and more efficient
collection, together with low capital expenditures resulted in a balanced
budget. But this occurred only in the first quarter; during the remainder of



-4-
the year, fiscal policy has been more expansionary than planned. Although
capital expenditures in 1980 will be lower than budgeted, current expenditures
are likely to be about 2.7 times higher than those of 1978, surpassing the
relatively buoyant current revenues. The overall deficit of the Central
Government could rise to US$ 320 million, about 80 percent of total revenues
and 18 percent of GDP. Only about half this deficit is covered by external
financing. Bank credit expansion to the private sector in 1980 has been
substantial, much of it oriented towards short-term loans for commercial and
agricultural activities.
14.       Following the typical pattern of small, open economies, this large
increase in both Government expenditures and credit has quickly leaked out
into imports, particularly from Central America. Consumer prices are expected
to rise by about 35 percent in 1980; a high rate, but only about half of that
of 1979. Import growth has been mostly stimulated by the partial recovery of
consumption; the value of capital goods imports is expected to be just below
two-thirds of that of 1978, while imports of fuel and food may be twice as
high.
15.       In sum, the policy followed in practice has been one of satisfying
the basic needs of the population, restocking inventories, trying to restore
real consumption levels which had dropped sharply in 1979, and providing
employment, or at Least marginal work, for the urban unemployed through the
rapid expansion of commercial activities and the doubling of the government
sector. Since reaL consumption in 1980 is still likely below 1978 levels, it
would probably have been difficult to follow a more austere course. The one
chosen has given the Government, and the country itself, a breathing spell
following a very trying war-time period.  Had imports been restrained, domestic
scarcities would have been more apparent and inflation would probably have
accelerated. There has, however, been some cost to permitting a less painful
transition, i.e., the fostering of a large trade deficit.
Prospects for 1981
16.       In agriculture, basic grain production appears to be on the rise and
there is a good possibility that domestic consumption needs will be satisfied
to a large degree. The prospects for agricultural commodity exports are
good. Total exports in 1981 are projected to be more than 40 percent higher
than in 1980, and may reach the record exports of 1978. The 1980/81 coffee
crop may equal the record 1978/79 crep. Sugar exports are favored by high
world prices, and the shrimp and lobster catch is currently high. Beef pro-
duction, however, will remain depressed. The cotton area planted, a crucial
variable in the country's economic recovery process, will be approximately
140,000 "manzanas," including 21,000, now owned by the Government. Although
this represents nearly a tripling of the area planted in 1979, it is consider-
ably short of the 250,000 "manzanas" average of 1972-1978. The private
sector is hesitant to expand cotton production, particularly in the lower
yield lands, as hunian resources and some needed inputs have been in short
supply. Further the Government plans to limit the area under cotton to
170,000 "manzanas" so that the balance can be allocated to the production of
food.



- 5 -
17.       The prospects for the industrial sector in 1981 are not favorable.
Although it is expected that production in most of the plants under government
control will reach 1978 levels, the recovery of private industry continues
to be slov   The investment climate remains uncertain.  Confidence appears
insufficient to encourage large private entrepreneurs, such as those that
produce the bulk of the exports to Central America, to invest in the recon-
struction of firms and in working capital. Prospects for the mining sector--
now nationalized--are, however, very promising. Gold has become a major export
commodity for Nicaragua. High prices will mean that the value of gold exports
in 1981 could exceed US$30 million.
V
18.       Even if the potential for export recovery is fully realized, the
balance of payments picture will continue to be bleak for some time. As
production recovers, imports of capital goods should rise sharply; total
imports of goods and services in 1981 could reach US$1 billion, putting
additional pressure on the balance of payments. External assistance has so
far been substantial; the required external capital flows during the next
few years will also be high - over a quarter of a billion dollars per year.
However, debt service obligations could absorb a substantial part of that
inflow. An important determinant of the net flow of capital will be the
arangements that are reached by the Government with respect to the re-
scheduling of external debt. A satisfactory agreement has recently been
concluded with the foreign private banks. An October 1980 meeting of the
Paris Club began consideration of rescheduling of bilateral debts with
foreign governments; further meetings of the Club as well as some bilateral
agreements are likely.
Longer-Term Prospects
19.       Nicaragua is favored by a number of conditions  conducive to a
high rate of economic growth: the country has a low population/land ratio;
the available land resources are of good quality and plentiful - in fact there
exists much undeveloped frontier land; the core of the transport infrastruc-
ture network is well established and commodity exports are more diversified
than those of most of the other Central American countries. In addition, the
Government is giving high priority to productive sectors and to projects that
will generate foreign exchange. It also strongly favors rural development,
and the nationwide literacy program, which appears to be successful, will
broaden the long-term development potential of the country.
20.       At the same time there are a number of obstacles to the attainment
of a high growth path. First and foremost, the havoc caused by the war:
in addition to the loss of life, there were sizable income losses and property
damage. The consequences of these events will linger for a number of years.
The foreign debt inherited from the last administration is large. Loans
needed for the recovery program make current public external debt (including
undisbursed) approach the level of GDP. An estimate of future debt service
payments is not currently available because Nicaragua's past debts are still
being renegotiated.
21.       The country will depend for a number of years on costly, imported
fossil fuel as a principal source of electrical energy. Petroleum imports now
represent about one-quarter of total goods' imports. Hydroelectric power
development has lagged in Nicaragua, and geothermal exploitation is just
beginning.



- 6 -
22.       Perhaps the greatest challenge will be the ability of the Government
to lead the country through the difficult recovery period. The present policy
of restoring past levels of real consumption through monetary and fiscal expan-
sion and deficits in the current accournt must be tempered with one of growing
public and private investment, increased revenues from public enterprises,
high productivity, and all this within the framework of social transformation
to which the Government is committed. The economic consequences of the revolu-
tionary struggle will persist for a number of years. Under these circumstances,
concessionary external credit and official assistance in excess of the foreign
exchange component: of individual projects will be required to ease the transi-
tion period until the economy has completely recovered and the country's
traditional creditworthiness has been fully reestablished. In the longer
term, with good economic management, Nicaragua could attain the rapid growth
rates it had reached in the past and at the same time succeed in achieving its
more pressing social goals.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       Nicaragua to date has received 26 Bank loans and three IDA credits
for a total of US$237 million. A loan of US$20 million and a credit for
US$10 million for agricultural and industrial rehabilitation and a second
credit for US$22 million for urban reconstruction, were signed on January 4,
1980. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of October 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
24.       Because of major fiscal difficulties during 1978 and the disruptive
effects of the revolutionary war in the latter part of 1978 and in most of 1979,
the Bank did not lend to Nicaragua between early 1978 and the end of 1979. In
mid 1979 it was concluded that meaningful project activities and adequate
supervision of ongoing projects were no longer possible. Therefore, the Board
was informed on July 16 (A 79-192) that no further disbursements on existing
loans and credits would be made. The Government of Nicaragua was subsequently
replaced by a Junt:a of National Reconstruction. The Junta requested emergency
assistance from the international community to facilitate recovery from the
economic disaster caused by the war as well as by large ouLtflows of capital.
The Bank responded to this Government request by restructuring projects on
which substantial balances remained undisbursed and by making them more
responsive to emergency needs. Also an emergency loan/credit package was
extended for agricultural and industrial rehabilitation and for urban recon-
struction. The restructuring of projects was completed in October, 1979, at
which time the suspension of disbursements was rescinded. The emergency
operations were signed in January 1980. As described in Annex II, implementa-
tion of the restructured and emergency projects is progressing well.
25.       In the past, the objectives of the Bank/IDA program in Nicaragua
have been (a) to support the Government's export diversification efforts
(b) to help build viable institutions in key seccors, such as water supply



-7-
and electric power and (c) to help spread the benefit of growth to more people
through lending for projects such as education, rural sanitation, agriculture
and water supply. The Bank Group also assisted in the reconstruction effort
following the devastating earthquake of 1972.
26.       Because of the Government's preoccupation with emergency reconstruc-
tion requirements, it has not yet been possible to develop a long-term lending
program for the Bank Group. A new investment program for the expanded public
sector is now being formulated.  An agreed draft is expected to be completed
shortly. However, an agreement has already been reached within the new
Government on investment priorities and on a list of projects requiring
financial assistance immediately.  The Bank was, therefore, invited for
programming discussions in August of this year. The objective of these
discussions was to develop a tentative program of assistance for the next
three years. This program is summarized in para. 27 below. Bilateral assis-
tance programs are still largely responsive to emergency needs. The Government
has also had programming discussions with the IDB, from which it has requested
substantial financial assistance. The Bank Group lending activities to
Nicaragua are being closely coordinated with donors such as IDB, CABEI, USAID
and other bilateral agencies.
27.       In view of the disruptions created by the revolutionary war, one of
the most urgent requirements of the Nicaraguan economy at present is the
establishment of a mechanism to generate well designed, high priority projects.
- The FThAPRI project will assist in meeting this requirement. The rural
development office for Central America, for which the Bank is serving as
executing agency, is expected to provide assistance in the identification and
preparation of rural development projects. The Government has also requested
assistance for the following projects: (a) rural primary education including
adult literacy, a component that would reinforce and institutionalize the
results of the recently completed literacy campaign, (b) a continuation of the
agricultural/industrial rehabilitation program, which was part of the emergency
package approved in December 1979--since commitment of funds under the first
project has been nearly completed, a follow-up project is urgently needed (c)
infrastructure, development projects for water supply and electric power
(geothermal), where the Bank has worked in the past, as well as for road
upgrading and road maintenance (d) urban projects to upgrade low-income
neighborhoods, finance municipal improvements and implement a low-cost
housing program and (e) in addition to an immediate repeater project for
agricultural and industrial rehabilitation, assistance in agriculture, partic-
ularly for the development of tree crops (oil and coco palm).
28.       IFC's first operation in Nicaragua involved a FY1968 loan and equity
investment of US$1 million and US$1.07 million, respectively, in a textile
plant, Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, S.A. IFC's equity participation was
sold in FY1974 to local shareholders. In FY1976 IFC agreed to provide US$6.5
million in long-term debt to Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd., a sugar mill, to
help expand its production capacity and develop new cane fields. Due to
subsequent cancellation of part of the project by Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd.,
that commitment was subsequently reduced to US$4 million. Also in FY1976 IFC
made a loan and equity investment of US$700,000 and US$200,000, respectively,
to help finance the construction of the Camino Real Hotel. The projects



@8 
financed by IFC's three investments suffered some damage, but were not
destroyed during the civil war. Four IFC missions have visited Nicaragua
during 1980 to discuss with the Government the rescheduling of part of
IFC's existing loans and its future role in the reconstruction of the country.
Arrangements for rescheduling IFC's loans are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1980.
PART III -- INVESTMENT NEEDS AND PROJECT PREPARATION ACTIVITIES
29.       Nicaragua will have to invest large sums in the coming years if
the effects of the recent war are to be overcome and the level of economic
activity is to return to normal. The National Investment Program prepared in
the first half of 1980 calls for investments of the order of US$380 million in
calendar year 1981 rising to close to US$600 million by 1983. The total level
of investments in the past three years was US$555 million in 1977, US$264
million in 1978 and (-) US$63 million in 1979. 1/ Not only did the war
interrupt investments and reduce economic activity, it also hindered invest-
ment planning for the future and prevented the preparation of feasible invest-
ment projects. Furthermore, many of the investment plans prepared before the
civil war have become obsolete. The public sector which accounted for only
about 15% of GDP before the war has been expanded to account for about 40% of
GDP because industrial enterprises and agricultural land formerly owned by
the Somoza famrily have been expropriated and brought into the public sector.
In addition, there is a dearth of management expertise because top level
managers of expropriated enterprises in industry and agriculture have left
the country and their place has been taken by new managers who, although
highly motivated, lack experience. This has made it necessary to strengthen
the administration of the public sector to ensure that the level of invest-
ment called for by the National Investment Program can be attained. Top
management of public sector agencies has been replaced and public sector
administration has been restructured by the creation of new ministries. It
is hoped that with these steps the implementing capacity of the public
agencies will be gradually built up so that when suitable high priority
project are prepared they can be implemented rapidly. The private sector
however continues to remain hesitant about making new investments.
30.       The Government, recognizing the importance of creating a reliable
mechanism to generate well thought out and prepared projects for both the public
and the private sectors, has established two key institutions for this purpose.
One is the Fondo I'nternacional para la Reconstruccion de Nicaragua (FIR),
established in September 1979, and the other is FINAPRI, the beneficiary of
the proposed credit, established in September 1980. FIR, which is headed by
a Minister, is in charge of the promotion, negotiations and organization of
financial assistance for reconstruction projects from bilateral and multilateral
sources. FINAPRI, which is headed by an Executive Director selected by the
1!   The negative investment stemmed from the fact that the large stock draw-
downs exceeded the value of the very limited fixed capital formation.



09 
Financial Cabinet of the Government, is charged with the task of financing and
helping undertake preinvestment studies with the object of building up a
pipeline of projects, necessary to restart economic activity in the country and
reshape Nicaragua's economy as determined by the Minister of Planning. The
Financial abinet also serves as FINAPRI's Board of Directors and consists of
one member of the National Junta, the Presidents of the Corporacion Financiera
(CORFIN), and the Central Bank, and the Ministers of Finance, Planning and the
head of FIR. It has general supervisory functions, including supervision of
FINAPRI's financial operation and budget and the approval of contracts under
which FINAPRI acquires its resources. FINAPRI's organization chart is attached
as Annex V.
31.       Both FINAPRI and FIR along with the Ministry of Finance are repre-
sented on an Investment Committee which is chaired by a representative of the
Ministry of Planning. For investment projects requiring foreign financing,
proposals are submitted for approval to this Committee by the relevant public
sector agency or private sector enterprise. If the Committee feels that
preinvestment studies are necessary before it can act on a proposal, the
financing and supervision of such studies is entrusted to FINAPRI. Upon
completion of the study and if the Committee s approval is obtained, any
additional external financing needed to implement the project becomes the
responsibility of FIR.
32.       It is the Governments intention to involve FINAPRI in all public
sector preinvestment studies not already budgeted by the implementing agencies.
While the extent of FINAPRI's involvement will depend on the needs of the
various implementing agencies, it is expected that, given the clear need for
preinvestment studies in Nicaragua,the major constraint to FINAPRI's activities
for the next few years will be its human and financial resources.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The project was prepared by FINAPRI between March and June 1980 and
appraised by the Association in June 1980. Supplementary data are provided in
Annex III. Annex IV contains a tentative list of studies which may be considered
for financing under the proposed project and financial projections of FINAPRI and
Annex V contains a description of FINAPRI's organization. Negotiations were
held in Washington from November 17 to 18.  The Nicaraguan Delegation was headed
by Mr. Bernardo Chamorro, Vice Minister of FIR.
Project Objectives and General description
34.       The main objective of the proposed project will be to provide
assistance to further strengthen the recently established FINAPRI, which
is expected to help generate both public and private sector investment projects.
The proceeds of the credit would be used to finance consultant's services for
preparing high priority investment projects in key productive and social
sectors and technical assistance to FINAPRI and its borrowers.



- 10 
35.       FINAPRI started operations in March 1980 and, under its super-
vision, studies in the following areas have already been successfully
completed:
(a)  feasibility of railway rehabilitation;
(b)  feasibility of rehabilitation and construction of
production roads;
(c) feasibility of improving the transport system on
Lake Nicaragua;
(d) development of drinking water project for secondary
cities and possibilities for improving drinking water
for 28 communities;
(e) evaluation of possibilities of extending the coastal
waterway; and
(f)  35 investment profiles for the industrial sector.
Of the studies listed above, Association staff have reviewed the feasibility
study of the rehabilitationL and construction of productior roads and found
it to be of adequate quality.
36.       FINAPRI will provide technical assistance to its borrowers at every
stage from project identification to study supervision; it will identify early
in the project cycle possible impediments to implementation, from lack of
investment funds to internal weaknesses in the borrower's organization, and
help devise ways and means to correct them; it will act as a promoter in those
sectors where there is a particular shortage of projects, so that the Government's
sectoral distribution goals for investment can be met.
37.       Ever since its inception FINAPRI has been gradually building up its
staff which presently number 65. Its management and staff are highly motivated.
Although lacking in experience, they are considered qualified to achieve the
institution's objectives, provided they receive technical assistance from
consultants in fields where FINAPRI lacks the expertise to support the sub-
borrower (para. 51).
FINAPRI Procedures
38.       FINAPRI's procedures are described in its operating manual which
was developed in early 1980. While it is considered satisfactory, it has not
as yet been tested in practice. FINAPRI's management intends to monitor its
effectiveness and make appropriate changes in general operating procedures in
consultation with the Association (Section 2.10(a) of the draft Project
Agreement).
39.       FINAPRI, wvhen necessary, alssists in project identification and
preparation of project briefs for submission to the Investment Committee
whose function is described in paragraph 31. Once the Committee has given
its preliminary approval for a study, the borrower proceeds to the drafting



- 11 -
of detailed terms of reference, budgeting, prequalification, selection and
contracting   of consultants.  FINAPRI has a technical assistance as well as a
supervisory function in all these stages.
40.       Since FINAPRI is a public sector institution, gua-3ntees to ensure
repayment of its subloans to public sector agencies are not required. For
loans to the private sector collateral will be obtained to cover the risk of
possible non-repayment. This is provided for in FINAPRI's manual.
FINAPRI's Financial Position and Projected Operations
41.       FINAPRI's financial projections show that Government budgetary
support will be required to cover operating expenses through 1985, when the
outstanding and disbursed loans would amount to approximately US$26 million.
The Government would provide the necessary funds for this purpose. These
are estimated at US$3.4 million, in addition to US$355,000 for start-up
expenses. The Government would also provide counterpart funds for the preinvest-
ment studies to be financed by the proposed credit, estimated to be about
US$1.2 million equivalent (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). After 1986, FINAPRI should be able to cover approximately 35% of
disbursements through net income and repayments on its loans.
42.       FINAPRI plans to maintain separate accounts for its technical assistance
activities and it intends to charge a fee for them. No estimate, however, of
income from this source can be made at present because the extent of FINAPRI's
involvement in technical assistance is not yet known nor has the fee level been
determined. Charges for technical assistance have, therefore, not been
fncluded in the cash flow forecast. Even if FINAPRI is not able to recover
technical assistance costs from its sub-borrowers, it should be able to
cover its operating costs by 1986, the year following expected full disbursement
of the IDA credit. Any recovery of technical assistance costs would result in
FINAPRI being able to break even earlier.
43.       FINAPRI is currently estimating that it will be called upon to
finance studies that could result in producing projects representing about half
of the value of the national investment program. The cost of these studies is
estimated at about 3% of the cost of such projects. This is consistent with
experience in other countries for work up to and including feasibility studies.
The investment forecasts, and resulting cash requirements for FINAPRI, are
given in the following table.
Demand for Preinvestment Studies
(US$ million)
(in 1980 prices)
1980         1981       1982      1983      Total
(estimated)      ------------anticipated      …
National Investment
Program                  190.00       380.00    470.00    570.00   1,6if ~OC
Cost of Studies financed
by FINAPRI (3% of 50%
of National Investment
Program) 1/                2.85         5.70       7.05      8.55       24.15
I/   These are estimated committments of FINAPRI



12 -
44.       The cost data do not include the private sector or requirements for
detailed engineering. At least initially it is not expected that the private
sector will make much use of this facility. As explained in paragraph 29
the private sector is still reluctant to make new investments. However,
when it does starl: to invest it generally prefers to use its own funds for
preinvestment studies. Nevertheless the Government feels that it is important
to leave the door open for the private sector to use FINAPRI's resources.
45.       A list of studies for which a preliminary budget could be prepared,
is provided in Annex IV. The cost of these studies amounts to US$19.8 million.
Not included is a large water supply, engineering study because sufficient
information on it is not presently available. A separate engineering loan
is being prepared for it which will be proposed for financing by the Bank.
This loan may alsco be channelled through FINAPRI.
46.       The sources of funds for these studies, in addition to the proposed
credit, are expected to be the IDB and various bilateral agencies. The German
Ministry of Economic Cooperation and the IDB have already provided $450,000
(see Annex IV). The Government has requested a loan of US$5 million from the
IDB which is expected to be made in about a. year.
Adequacy of the Credit
47.       It is not considered necessary to agree on a specific list of studies
to be prepared as a precondition for the proposed credit, because priorities
for preinvestment studies tend to change as new possibilities are identified
and as conclusions; of ongoing studies become available. The estimated size of
the identified priority investment requirements and the large number of studies
identified in Annex IV suggest that the proposed credit would be committed and
disbursed promptly.
l
48.       The proceeds of the credit will cover 80% of the cost of approved sub-
loans estimated at US$6.1 million. This represents about 20% of the total
amount of subloans that FINAPRI intends to make during the disbursement period
of the proposed credit. Of the 80% contribution from the Association approxi-
mately 70% would cover foreign cost and 10% local currency cost of studies.
Local cost financing is justified for reasons given in paragraph 22 above.
On-Lending Terms
49.       FINAPRI will finance up to 100% of the cost of preinvestment studies
in the public sector and up to 90% in the private sector. It would receive
the proceeds of the proposed credit on standard IDA terms from the Government.
FINAPRI's onlending terms fcr studies in the public sector are 8% per annum
interest for a maximum of 10 years including a grace period of not more than
2 years. There is a provision for accelerated repayment in case of project
implementation. The private sector would have to pay an additional 0.5%
commitment fee, (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). All borrowers
would pay the penalty charge on overdue service payments provided for in
Nicaragua's Banking System. (At present this is equivalent to the regular
interest rate plus a penalty charge of about 6% per annum). (Section 2.02(a)(iv)
of the draft Project Agreement). The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
50.       Nicaragua's 1980 annual inflation rate is expected to be about
35 percent; and it may continue at that rate in 1981 before declining to
lower levels in the succeeding years. Interest rates charged for agricultural
and industrial loans are now 12-14%. The Government has just completed a
major reoi mnization of the banking system, and bank portfolios are still
filled with an unknown quantity of loans to defunct enterprises. Private
investment remains low. Until the situation is normalized and inflation is
brought under control, the authorities are reluctant to raise nominal interest
rates, preferring to depend on Government-owned banks to allocate credit on
the basis of central guidelines. Regarding preinvestment studies for the
private sector, the Government is eager to encourage the sector to invest
and has, therefore, set FINAPRI's lending rate for the private sector also
at 8% (plus a 0.5% committment fee). To ensure the financial viability of
of FINAPRI, the Government has decided to meet all of FINAPRI's operating
expenses not recovered through loan or technical assistance charges. In
effect, the Government has decided that public sector preinvestment studies
will be a normal administrative responsibility of the Government, and that the
private sector requires some subsidy, at least to evaluate its investments
in the present uncertain environment. Given the lag in private investment
so far, the latter decision seems justified.
Technical Assistance
51.       Provision is made for approximately $122,000 (equivalent to
100,000 SDRs) in technical assistance, to cover possible requirements for
short-term experts in specific disciplines which FINAPRI lacks. The objective
would not be to finance studies by the direct employment of such experts, but
to make their expertise available to sub-borrowers or FINAPRI for helping
prepare terms of reference and assisting in consultant selection and super-
vision. These funds could also be used for assistance in the operations of
FINAPRI itself.
Procurement of Consultants and Disbursements
52.       In regard to studies to be financed under the credit (other than
free limit studies), the Association will approve the general outline and the
initial budget (Section 2.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement). For free
limit studies, costing not more than US$150,000 each and totalling not more
than US$2 million, the Association will approve the subject matter only
(Section 2.05(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
53.       Acceptable procedures for the selection of consultants are specified
in FINAPRI's operating manual except for the hiring of individual consultants.
The Association's approval would be sought regarding any changes in the pro-
curement procedures set out therein (Section 2.10(b) of the draft Project
Agreement), and it is a condition of effectiveness that the manual be amended
to include the provision for the hiring of individual consultants (Section 5.01(c)
of the Draft Development Credit Agreement.
54.       For selection of consulting services under sub-loans other than free
limit subloans, the Association will approve: (a) the short list of consultants
to be invited to make proposals, (b) the assessment of the responsiveness of
the winning proposal, and (c) the negotiated-draft contract (Section 2.04(i)
of the draft Project Agreement).



14 -
55.       With this involvement the Association seeks to insure that the
firms on the short list have the technical capacity to undertake the work,
that the terms of the invitation (not otherwise subject to approval) make
allowance for the recruitment of qualified personnel; that the standard form
of contract is followed to an appropriate degree; that comments have been
taken into account, and that the costs are within acceptable limits.
56.       Consultant's contracts would follow a standard form which will be
submitted to the Association for approval prior to disbursement under
category 1 of Schedule 1 of the Credit (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement).
57.       The Association would disburse 80% of the cost of preinvestment
studies and 100% of technical assistance cost. It is expected that the amounts
allocated in the credit for subloans will be fully committed by June 30, 1984.
The closing date is, therefore, set at June 30, 1985 (Section 2.04 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring
58.       The Government would furnish to, and exchange views with, the Asso-
ciation on the yearly work programs of FINAPRI, including its cost and
financing arrangements, as well as the results of actual execution of the
program. To the extent possible, the Association and FINAPRI will develop
cost effectiveness targets out of these reviews.
Benefits
59.       The project provides financial resources and technical assistance to
strengthen the capability of FINAPRI to identify and prepare suitable projects.
By helping to promote careful project analysis and design for sub-borrowers,
as well as by developing the budgeting, contracting and general supervision
skills of FINAPRI itself, it should lead to better conceived and more economical
investment projects. A further benefit is the stimulus which the project will
give to local consultants.
Risk
60.       There are no special risks involved in the proposed project.  The
size of the investment needs of Nicaragua, the determination of the Govern-
ment to carry out a substantial development program and the project identifi-
cation efforts of multilateral development banks are likely to ensure that new
projects can be readily identified to replace any that may be dropped from the
initial list.
61.       Delays :Ln commitment and dLisbursement could arise because of FINAPRI's
lack of experience and expertise. As stated in para. 37 above, the quality
of FINAPRI's staff is considered good.  The supervision planned by the Associa-
tion should assist in overcoming problems of implementation due to any lack of
experience that may become evident.



- 15 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Nicaragua and IDA and the draft Project Agreement between IDA and FINAPRI
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The most important features and special conditions
of the Development Credit Agreement and the draft Project Agreement have been
included in Part IV and are summarized in Section III of Annex III of this
report. I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments,                                          by Moeen A. Qureshi
December 1, 1980



- 16 -
ANNEX I
Page I of 8
TABLE 3A
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KIj)                                                             -. MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-          _
TOTAL             130.0
AGRICULITURAL      48.9                                   HOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
[960  lb    1970 Lb ESTDfATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    260.0        480.0      660.0                 1562.9                     2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        174.0        418.0      517.0                 [055.9                     1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         1.4          1.9        2.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41. 4           47. 2      52. 1                  63.4                       53. 9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            5.0                      .-
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          i1.0         15.0       19.0                   28. 1                      77. 2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        30.0         39.0      51.0                    81. 7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           47.8          48.6      48.1                    41.4                       30.6
15-64 YES.                           49.7         49.0       49.4                   54.7                        61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.5          2.4        2.5                    3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2. 9         2.9        3.3                    2. 7                       1. 6
URBAN                                 4.2          4.2        4.6                    4. 1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        51.0         45.0       45.0                   34.8                       22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        19.0         15.0       13.0                    8. 9                       8. 9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.3          3.3        3.3                    2.5                         1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         10. 1      15.6
USERS (PERCENTI OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..       19.0 
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            88.1         100.0      122.0                  106.9                      113. 1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    104.0        109.0      109.0                  107.4                       125. 3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             66.0         74.0       70.0                   65.6                       91.0
OF WHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE         37. O        42.0       42.0                    33. 7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        30.0           ..       17.0                    8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0            50.4       55.0                   63. 1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..        122.0       37.0                   66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPLLATION )
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       70.0                   65.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..      100. 0                 8. 4
RURAL                                  ..          ..        34.0                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPELATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..                    62. 3
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                    79.4
RURAL                                  ..          8. 0     24. 0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2739.0       1999.0/c  1666. 0                1849.2                      1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           . .       751. 0     800.0                 1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BRD
TOTAL                               431.0       422. 0     484.0                   480.3                      289.7
URBAN                                  ..        222.0     285.0
RURAL                                  ..      2170. 0    1963.0
ADMISSIONS PER ROSPITAL BED              .            ..        ..                     ..                        17. 0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUS EHOLD
TOTAL                                 6. 1/d        ..
URBAN                                 5. 8/d        ..
RURAL                                 6.3/d         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.8/d        2.9
URBAN                                 2.2/6        ..
RURAL                                 3. 2/d        ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PEICENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                33. 0        41.0
URBAN                                71.0         76. 7
RURAL                                 4.0          7.0



- 17-                                    ANNEX I
PaRe 2 of 8
TABLE 3A
NICARAIGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                   REFERENCE QGOUPS (WEIGHTED AWRA(S
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0        83.0      92.0                  99.7                    105.9
MALE                 65.0        82.0        ..                 101.0                    109.3
FEMALE               66.0        84.0        ..                  99.4                   103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 7.0        18.0      29.0                  34.4                    64.0
MALE                  9.0        19.0        ..                  33.5                     71.1
FEMALE                6. 0       17.0        ..                  34. 7                   56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 24.0          9.0        9.0                 38.2                     28.8
PUP IL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           35.0        39.0 °      *                   30.5                    29.4
SECONDARY                         13.0        26.0        ..                  14.5                    26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        53.0      57.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.0        17.0      16.0                  43.0                    84. 6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        51.0        55.0     157.0                 245.3                   192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0        28.0      38.0                  84. 2                  118. 5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESTV) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        28.0      26.0                  63.3                    93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0          ..        ..                    ..                     5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      445.0       550.0     735.5                     *
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17. 1       20.3      22.0                  22.2                    30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62. 3       51.0      44.0                  37.1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                16.0        15.0      15.0                  23.5                    29. 3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.0        30.0      29.8                  31. 5                   40. 9
MALE                                51.7        48.4      47.3                  48.9                    55.9
FEMALE                              10.5        12.0      12.6                  14.0                    26. 2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1. 7      M. 7                  1.4                     1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         42. 4e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..         65. 4/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3. 1/e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          8. 7/e
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     262.0
RURAI                               ..          ..     183.0                 190.8
ESrrMACED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     319.0                 474.0
RURAL                               * -                155.0                 332.5                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      21.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      19.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for -1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1571; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d 1963;  /e Rural population only.
Most recent estimates of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-18-                                                                     ANNEX I
ESaL 3of 8
loses:  Al1though the  data ac  d-no  Trt.  souce  geo.. ab1y lodged the cot a-thortuti-o and -eIa~ble, it should alto  be rotod that they  -c  sot be icier-
catiocaIly coparble because .I Ch. 1ach of stordardi.ed dficteice.. aned co-cept; ...ed by diff.e.es  ca...tei.a is  obecic   he data.  The data see,cr-
shebeas,  _eeful to d.eeceibe coder  uf cagcbtcd, bedicat  steeds, and chec-te-i- cottae majc  diffeetecos bete.ee.c.ue.rtes..
The -nfeetene groups ace (lb the same.. cutry gecup of she subject -cctry ao,d (lb  a-tn-.y group sithi.ousehat' high-e a-eage butae thee she Country gecop
of she sbj-os  -cotty bceyPt tar  'Capital Surplu  fib Etp-ttcr" getup abet  "Mtddl. 1c-e  Sooth Aifec  aed Middle Tact' is chases beas   f et-og-
sotio-cclturul afflcculnal.  T  chc.eee     ru  data the av-rsen ar  -roceo  oghted oritheetto ..n.ee  far each idi-ator and  hboa- only  hbe at
beams bhbf cf the cutisineert-p bua duagrthat tedic-et-   Sisc  the coVterge   ....ncoties snuo  thn icdisseore dep-eod  cn the  -tilahilisy  of
dais amd ta tot uslnt, cation east bneceratsed ie eeleteingnteoag     of one todicat-eccac-b-e  These  -tetuge  ac  only ...nfa1 isnsp s  tha rebu
of net ludiatnret as atime arnog ehs c...otzy and enf-ooc groups.
LAND fREA (shu..asi daq.k.m.9                                                                   obto  one bos~iobe   - Ppolastbom  atildna by sanest ut Pratilsg plby-
Total - Tctat aurfaca are   tpis I-gbad ar  eand i.be.cd waters                               sioia.. qualified feom a siedoa  ach-t  ot atietemity bete.
darliltabtara   - Ettsus  of agicultural an-  aced tenpnraily ne p.-nrmuet:Ly                2oalnsoENusnSene-Pplen   divided by nuabee atpaf                              cn
fee a..Ps, Paeetta, sutbn      ko iechno oedens or so bie fslier; 1g77 date,                male and femlegodus   etee          .p.oIc   usesus  and a..aieian  uees
TN?ii  CPIA    TP  ertais  ntinos  s orrstmameprce,              etbeio  es  eeitb ld -ttl   ra,ad meta  - Papubstien  (teneb.
(Ill)                                        cal-          uth~~~-an, ed reel   ItiV   .h hir seapetien nabr af hespita1 beds
saluted by ce coetarstu   mabe   s   old   nook Aries (1.977-7  basis)  19ff,           aeileble in pabbia and peir_se gasea1 and ePemtaliaed haspisab andre
1970, and  iSSideta.                                                                          habilisatben .tester. inap..itels are eaabliabmaute peemsntely staffed
by selansI ... p..hys icia. Establinhmnast peaviding principally nantedi.1
Cyhi CONSb9l'ION PE iCaITA --nclacaeso   fcanei>eegy  ca.                                     tenaeme       lsbded   Resab hbspitsls, haserr, instuds health end naditel
end lignite, pstcaleas, snsersl gas aed hydre-, noc eneud geteru  nt>           eseses  ennty stafed by a phyI'tas (hut bye   diaasstat
t, eitiy) is kilogaxa ef  -na  eqaale-s Pent        psa   91  1970, and lgyf                  nurse, midwife, ate,) whiehUfre in-patient etetmedatien end peovide 
dent.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited reege of medicalf-uilistee.  Pee atattinein1 pueteses sehes bspi-_
tabs inclade WHO. prIecipel gu-eal and spasielteed buapitlal, end esta1
PIPTILATIOII  ANl VITAI' STAISgTICi                                                             h-spitals lea  er rural1 hsapteete asd mdisel and materity  -snter.
Intel Pepabaiec. ffbd-Tae beibblac) - As cf Joby 1: 1960, l970, mcd 1978          ddnsnine  tee fHseima t ed -ue   snhb- ef edniasi..s to  re disohargee
date,                                                                                        fre  heny.isals. dividad by -the. snher of bade.
Uebsan d peeuo   borcee   feael  - teb  at arhat to easel pcPabaeiae;
diferssdtinisinse  nf  ehe   areasmy effete -upatbility uf data                      OSN
asag an...trins; 1960, 1g70, end b978 deta.                                               Aet-et lies of H-atheid (one.ess seeo .. hasb1d) - sum1, sebe  n,ad  atsse
Parobeetes Pen-iessiaups-I-                                        d..  98             A ho-ehnb;      nisso  agaPofidiedasb  ohs sheen birieg q-eter.
Sebatenin tetliT- pentpouaTo  pnetionabyart  eeed onendggheird -hnir tote meals,in                                     heedn  urlde a r may anet ha iecluded in
total pupulatine by age and see aud their snetalin~~~~ ~         ~        ~~y an   sthty eae. the ho..anhhad tar  aaismbpttpouma
Pejcitpacentera too uc"tebty natna nePnpra  of threme Iode  555tu                Alerue sfueber of trp     t oar. mus -. reset, cbehas.2adms E -,       Aeea en-
tog bife  peupsoast  at birth bucr-aing with --ntry'e  yr ne pita isne                     e   fpre    e   omI   b  ur an.ad ene   setpind  cnvnnincZ
betel, and  amab  life nepeonec-y anbillebog at 77.1 yeer-   The Pet-                     d-Iliogs, respectively.  Dteellisga nacade ens-permnent  -1-utre -sud.
meters foe f-etblity ease alec have shreet berts          ait  decline is                 anecayind geese.
B.fd:tfI                                                                                A    .t    lnrtt    pr.tdfert Ility aconrding en incme bet.elncd pensTaby plasing p-rf-rnte.  Aeeet-lcrmto(tau   tdelisee) - tceal, sebe, and metal  -
bas  -nontry is thee a-agued          d ano   ha  site. oothteaien  of  -arenliy         Cournetie...l d4ebbiege wcsh eb1tertity is biting q-ertee.sr           esttg
and fertility srendafr _ptjoisa pfpse.a  total, aches, and c-ta  d-sltngerm-p-tiv-ly.
itabenry  noaeebs -Ine  stati ..ary Ppoyabtios terse is          -t nrci - bc
the birth rse  a equa  tno the death ruse, aed alan  he age  tetrasrs  e-    EDUCATION
the  ebcmc  bee         iftu   ta  repredarinea, tee  sb  ssh                tn           Primay-    belst,ml  o  tnmat-rnstotal, tabs ened totals
.ft.unme  rayps-e  iteelf aacely.  The utnetonry popoleties  beweeenmatfalagssshpleylreasPecneaofnpsir
esimated nn the basis af the yen) nosed tha...tuarbathos of shi pepletee                  prisery   eeleepptsceueal                        ldnmlds   gdfl
in the year 21000.and she eaee of d-olu. ef tertility rate so tspbec-                       yer   u djetdfefttet  sgh    tpiayeoei                                 u
eem ebust                                                                                counneba with rtednsar difseatist le cngth nm  map     y eced-t100 psesm
2seaasna '        eua is re-ahind - The year ohns -ttice-y poyclatios                 aidec teen pupils are belw1     nshe  the ntTitiebt "   nu   ae
ales hasbee. tehed.                                                                       Seodr         nb-tent, tbsan   taae-Cmptda   hae   tedery
Peeslandon nanpettte                                                                      edecle.r(10  ..tt.)    '~,tiacrsqcirns at leant tsar years of appenoed primary inretntine;
Pee n. h. -   d-yer peebenn:s  ar  smar  hilnete  blo  heoacea  afpencides general, enaie..ab, nr teac.her staining  Istctusarppi
seelara                                                                                    -snly ot l2 no 17 Years of ege; e--epandes..ce meres are gane-ety
esby.                                                                                     Voc..tiasbeneie  (-eenet cf ...cendacy) - V..tPaaie..e  isatitoti..e
Perolasie dee itentase iproee .t- Childre  (01-14 yeare), oatht9-agc  (11-               inelsde st.heica,tdat l r ether pengBYn  nhinbh  parsta indepan-
Lbye-r9   en   enrd  6  yeesad o..t  as _petoesgna  i aid-yuec pcyu-                         dentlyc  a  da.pa'r'tes'ts tf sedey' -tseiet
lae;1960, 19Sf, end 1979 da%t,.1                                                        Pau-ncrrsn pimary, and snnday-Tebsdne ueedi
Peeslasienferbnt   rten      aa   - Annea  gen-th cases af tesa1 mid-                            primary and se..nderylrl  die    yeebsee,t at.neehers: inthle
year pepabattem   far 1950-6 0, 1960-79, and 1970-78.                                          cerreapeediag ber1l.
Pepulninsirawb bea (pesess - ohen    imnut gtweh   ien   f achc pon-  Astn inseayreer(pecent1- lieratbadas                t (ble ad madend iaten
lamiasa tue 1911-60, 1960-7, endl 1970-79                                              mepesstags sf tee1 ndstt Papu1stiss aged 11 peers end ecee.
Crsdn Btis baet (par thnoseed)  _ a,_asul  ire births per th-ssed of ad-y-e
P.paasne Rbhi  970, and 197f dasa.                                                      C000O'bO
Teade teeth Rate (tee th-uand) - iat-a  d-asb  Per tha...and at end-pee                     _esageeCr  teehsadnpbaie       scegrerNam                                   ae
peuamn; 160, b97t, end 1976 data.                                                      ten   Cnsn   lpess th-andtgh peesas; mtbide  asu eetes  hame   aed
bras  sreusn  bes-Aeae  abea                        ghteesaame w-ill bear in                    -ilittyiraiobu..:t.    ih     ..n;-l.     bl..    er.  
her sama  epredastire peeled it  heaPeiee prsn                  dgeati it7 fe-            be.die     . i -enier (arbe  thesan  pa aine) -ol types ateas  items fan  -ad
tibisy  eases; nasall  tire-peat  Lt_eage  eui.g i19, 1  1970   n   97            b-ed-atn  en genteeal publdicpen thosesu._d of papbuia  am.eba  asli-
Family Plaamsna--cet-er. Ado.ae. (thanasdef - A-..ua  sabero ef sc-pt-ra                  ...ssd enabrers in ceutrisa  sod in yanra wham egiesratian of redia sew
family Plannieg-leere (mosses et~~~~~ maribe o.nm ) - P.ora-nga  t macied            c...neteie aboiehed Iitc...sbg.
re an ofhild-beanig ag 1i-4t years) oh. use blth-....ere1 devices  O                   T tssa    oe thcun  rteeins  - TV e...ei,rse  fee betadsn
abl martied  dene, in e         asege getup.                                                ge rl- pa Lnprtesn    aoabn  sebdsuniesd-1 ecever
POOD ANiD MUTR.ITIOt                                                                             is ca-tri.itaed'is yeu.. when aegiteet ir  at TV sets sea is ties.t
Newa-p-er Ci-cl-ti- Cent . th ased caplanienl - thaws the aereg   ci-ele-
Indan of tcnd Prdno,tlnl   tar Capita (1969-71=100b  - Isdsn at yet oePite a-oat               etco  dil    eea  itrs   tappe                          ln    ap gtdcbp
iendati   c  all Tand b nse.edte,Penneecucseedte   o                                        li-aioe deren-d petmerbly en eaterd-neealg              na   Tii    daaideed
in as calendar year haste.  Coamdities ters  prImary geeds (e.g."ant"tt             abediyittePPesr  etetefm ter..sesosk
iassed  ft sugar  whth am  edible end ..ounain eanriesen  (e.g. coffee end                Cinem  Acesal Attesb..c. per Cec-ee ta YVn-Ne-     an1 the saber of
sta' are  sebded),  Aggoegene p-d-ntito at each coatry is be...d sn                         ticke.tsiald daring she year, inetuding udais ine. sodet-i. n _cesa
-tonb..ebIaerege peaduect pi-e  -eights; 1961-hi , 197i0, esd 1978 det-                     ad  met   tits..
Pe capitasneatebis (ermnt eC -a eset teent    - Csspated tra
eneg  eolaentatse  fod aples avilable in  --sty pnr repita                       I-,o PAiCRC
pmr day.  Arsilable capplles nsnpria  d_metic prad-tino, impocte 1-ea                   Tntel Lebec Porc  (thenadab -"bnnoiaIlby ective perassa, isotadiea
e-p-rta, ai chenged an atont   Nct sapplls anceds animal tend, aerda,                     -rud tocee ted  -vEspeyd bat eut1udine heasteit-, nsadesta, at. 
qu...siesee  i  adprotig  and  oss                  I in d ,lb.tihai.   Rtqirt-            .fniti-ile   ic. t-ri-ne cnutrins art catoparable; 1960, 1970 end
mecca ware nueatetd by PAt beud o  physinIBgic-1 steinf. Tot,eneml ecu-                  1978 date.
ithy  add heticnsdra   e-oi-oeantelb teuperatart,.bedy                                  F-aes   go Pmteberet    F- Petl  labortr-  m   ec      f  uf-cetabl  lbaho  farce.
anIn   iatibalsa  pepoletIe, and sbIowi I 0hros  Ta   et   t                           ber        s(eca)-ibor f-cc  itnurin, tonte.hasting aed
tIe...t  Iteth; I9hi-bO, 1970, ean  1017 data                                             tiehiug us pecetag eof tata  lebs  Ocro-  1960, 1910 end 119B dsta.
Per_ceitte ePplb at  rtreini  (nrnes te  dey) - Protein   otn  ccpe   upe                 Teoeo (e_n)     ee  t._ca ie mIstg    cerois    auat
ca   epya od Per day.  Net sapply ot toad is dclitedaat       v      e-          au,eoneo"y  wanor aed gasesrterans-og L.             stee  lbor ftats;  96.8
farnnater allsatrios  -tsbliahed by USDA provide toe em"a                           1971 and 197i data.
allowance of 60 erase ef tate1 prattle pet day nnd 2C gnc  oft ettleRaeab end                                       tt-.   I
60 gr-   Of                                    d ~~~~~~~~atibato   et   pecn)     ctl   al.ed ttmel   F-rPeesipenit  nr
ya1-leprtele, of which 10 grams shauld be animal protein.  Thes  tud-                     anbiyrtsaecsae   esel                       ale nd femle taboo forc-a
a-de art lw-  thee thoes aT 75 Rtra     oftena  p-tein aend27 raso                        proceet  ot total, mal and fesele Papulutbem    at a -gaaear-p-ti-ety;
ansimal p_aei  as an  -vesge   tuehc aneld * propated by PAO is the Third                 19f0, 1970, end 1971 data.  These are I T's paetittp-tias tase   ettleceteg
hnrld tend Ourvep  1961-65, 1970 and19,77dteaintatrnunTthpplte, an Leog1 tta  trn.A                                                                               tn
Pat seina crone.is aupeby frmela   s   se              Protinian.ppbyof bod An-_            mate  ar-   f         Intihc  papslmee.l
idie animals and paba.. is geses per day; 19f1-l  170  _cd 197ft.                0o      . D.ceudes-  Bettn  - Hasia of peysbanin.euder 11 add 61 add over
Child (ages 1-Al Mortality Seen (per ~~~~~th-o...ud) - Ao..acl doatha per tln-adin -r.t.tt1l
ego geaup b-A yea-o, se children is this age grop; toe mout detete   su-_
telee data d-cired free life tahlna; 1965, 1970 and 1977 date.                          INCOME tISTiBUTtION
HEALTH                                                                 P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ert... tse ci Ths,tdon  In.oem   Cheth in c_n. and_dkind) - Received by rishest
Llf  aeo    c  seBrh  tas)-trg    uber aT ynear  of life o-iaidsi                             Ie .e.eat, tichest 90 percent, pnes1   scn,adpna   ipees
Tnfan ems-talitl fete bane thues.eadd) - Aes-e  deethe of benta on -cder eon yta-    POVERTY TARGET 000UPS
ataepr  bued bive birsha.                                                        setimanetd Absalete ParryIsn.lvl(.$pe   ai   urban and r-rel-
taea    Saflet  Weter (nersame efp-bse)-ttl  ea.ad r..e -I.                                  hnspreyiem   le elt  thsIncnme beve  he1    rhieh e miulmal
Masher at psePe (easel, urban,ma  esrel  with reeam.ableeos  ea f cafe.  ..tyi.p"H H
rater suPply (ketudne sreated  -ofane settee   atrnueated hot sme.tsastned                   eeteitin..ellyadeqsat  dias plas esssstie1 uns-fnnd reqeitemets is en
adteede.,ble_
wate  deah me thentea  peae-teted bhebolta, apete.' and enita-y cable)                     nnE. antI ebeivePve    letem  eel(t L-              t rettui-)-a a band easl
perceaeln at their repective papuletlaus.  On as urban  rern    Peblis                     Rura-l btire peertyt lenielee  is ems-hied at aesag  peeuspine
ft.a.ttia ur  taodpet beetedse  mre thea 2100 meer  trcaabos my ha                           peeae.      naerttenue.UbnlrI i   eie   estetr
casidre     as  eng within teasnal t  aec     of ela  house.  It total -uteeUbs  le
ressnasble          ..es .Ied Imply that she hesn     dr mebers of the h-esabld              leelwtheisems  teh                 -n inst  f  i-i  in-rbsemaet...)-_
de  -a  here ta  pesd a disprepattnIs .t   part of the day is ftechitg the                 tadd r ..t I  Parul  ntin  lee pbsolute. Povee_  moan bevel b irurem  - arhsP..'
dispas.l aspEesae  n   hi  csetieppasis.   ersade                                                                           tnot  add Secia1 late Dlivisie
Pasal may inluda the molbeteios and dispsnnl, with cr Atiheet tresenene,                                                oE_ tic Aralyiab  and Peajeetie.. tep-teres
'f  h_   and  - -Ier ly  --b-     y.t-    r  ~~~~~~~~~~~h. d..  f ~Oc-ahe  199tr
yin piIsand similar bsabeua



ANNEX I
-19-                        TePge4of 8
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT/DATA SHEET
Actual                     Estimated                      Projected
1975     1976        i977      1978                1979                    1980         1981
A. National Accounts
(Hil.US$ at 1978 prices)
1. CDP                    2,122.6   2,239.8   2,362.3  2,146.4.              1,560.3                 1,743.5       1,900.4
2. Gains frrom TT.          -39.8    +1-94.8     +43.7       -                 -96.3                    -59.5       -150.3
3. Gross Don.Income       2,082.8   2,334.6   2,406.0  2,146.4               1,422.6                 1,684.o       1,750.1
4. Imports                  828.4      854.3     918.4      686.o              396.1                    569.2        667.4
5. Exports-Volume           665.5      756.3     757.7      758.0              662.3                   1476.0        615.4
6. Exports-TT. Adj.         625.7      851.1     801.4      758.0              566.0                    416.5        499.o
7. Resource, Gap-TT adj.   202.5         3.2     117.0    -72.0               -169.9                   152.7         168.4
8. Total Consumption      1,830.7   1,923.9   1,967.9   1,810.1              1,357.5                 1,622.4       1,636.9
9. Investment               454.6      407.5     555.1      264.3              -63.4                   214.3         315.5
10. Domestic Savings         252.1      404.3     438.1      336.3                65.1                   61.6          346.3
11. CDP at Curr.US$        1,590.4   1,861.3   2,237.3   2,146.4              1,856.7                 2,440.9       2,806.9
B. Sector Output
(Share of CDP at 1978 prices)
1. Agricture                .234       .228       .219      .246                .286                   .214         .244
2. Industry                 .287       .285      .287       .242                .227                   .242         .219
3. Services                 .479       .487      .494      .511                 .485                   .542         .536
C. Prices (1978   100)
1. Export Price Index       66.8       83.1     100.0       100.0             101.5                    121.2         121.3
2. Import Price Index       71.7       72.0      93.9       100.0             120.9                    138.9         157.8
3. Terms of Trade Index    93.;       115.4     106.5       100.0              83.9                      87.3         76.9
4. CDP Deflator (US$)       74.9       83.1      94.7       100.0             119.0                    140.o         147.7
5. Aver.Exch.Rate            7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0               9.16                    10.0          10.0
D. Public Finance
(As Z of CDP at curr.US$)
1. Current Revenue          20.3       20.2      23.8        19.2
2. Curr. Expenditures       17.4       17.4      20.5        20.9
'  Public Sect.Savings       3.0        2.8       3.3        -1.7
Cap. Expenditures        11.2       10.8      14.3         6.3



20                               ANNEX  I
-20-                      ~~~~Page  5 of 8
I M P OR T D E T A I L
ACTUAL                             ESTIMATED              PROJECTED
l95       S2276        1977         1978             1979            9            181
CON9TANI' 1978 PRICES
FOOD                                      31.7        35.3        35.7        31.>             37.4           69.6         29.T
OTHER CONSUMER GOODS                    155.4       157.8       173.6       116.7              51.6           99.2        123.2
PETR0LEL*y OIL, LU.RICANTS                90.3        95.4      105.6         89.0             48.7            86.9       105.6
OTEER INTERMEDIATE GOODS                 208.1       211.1      234.2        217.8            108.1           202.2       183.8
CAPITAL GOODS                         235.3       239.1       293.8       139,2              52.2           79.1        178.8
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                     720.8       738.7       824.9-       593.9            298.0           537.0       621.1
TOTAL GOODS (FOB)                     672.14      689.1       749.4        546.8            2T7.5           486.2       562.3
NFS                                   156.0       165.2       169.0       139.2             118.6            83.0       105.1
TOTAL GGODS AND NFS                   828.4       854.3       918.4    * 686.o              396.1           569.2       667.T4
PRICE INDEX (1978 = 100)
FOOD                                      64.9        68.8        86.o       100.0            110.0          117.0        121.0
OTNER CONSUMER GOODS                      65.2        74.8        86.8       100.0            116.5          125.2        133.1
PETROLFUl, OIL, LUBRICANTS               80.7       76.8        97.5       100.0             155.3          217.6        248.1
OTHER INTER?EDIATE GOODS                 84.c        81.4      107.8       100.0             113.2          124.8        136.0
CAPITAL GOODS                          62.6        60.4        86.8       100.0             116.,          125.2        133.1
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                      71.7        72.0        93.9       100.0             120.9          138.9        152.9
TOTIAL GOODS (YOB)                     71.7        72.0        93.9       100.0             120.9           138.9       152.9
NFS                                    77.9        79.2        86.8        100.0            113.2          124.8        136.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                    72.9        ,73.4       92.6       100.0             118.6          136.8        150.2
CURRENT VALUES
FOOD                                     20.6        24.3         30.7        31.2             41.2            81.5         36.o
OnIER CONSUMER GOODS                    101.3       118.0       150.7       116.7              60.1           124.2        164.0
PETROLEUM, OIL, LUBRICA'ITS               72.9        73.3      103.0         89.0              75.7          189.2        262.0
OTRER INTERMEDIATE GOODS                174.8       171.9       252.5        217.8            122.4           252.3        251.0
CAPITAL GOODS                         147.3       144.4       255.0       139.2              60.8            99.0       238.0
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                     516.9       531.9       791.9        593.9            360.2           746.2        950.0
TOTAL GOODS (FOB)                     482.2       496.2       704.1        546.8            335.5           675.3        859.7
NFS                                   121.5       130.8       146.7       139.2             134.3           103.6        143.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                   603.7       627.0       850.8       686.o             469.8           778.9     1,002.7



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
-21-
EX PO R T  DE T AIL
ACTUAL                       ESTIMATED         PROJECTED
1975      1976        1977      1978          1979        1980        1981
CONSTANT VALUES ( MILLIONS OF 1978 DOLLARS)
COTTON                                11414.9     123.5      127.3    140.9          127.8        21.6        75.0
COFFEE                                 148.0      129.3      180.8    199.6          201.6       168.5       194.8
SUGAR                                   18.1       29.9       19.9    .19.6           18.-        15.2        20.9
BEEF                                    h2.9       51.7       52.3      67.4          70.1        54.2        54.0
ALL OTIER GOODS                        207.4      253.5      256.1    218.3          184.8       169.3       185.0
TOTAL MERCHANDISE FOB                    561.3      650.9      636.4   .646.o           602.5       428.8      529.7
WON-FACTOR SERVICES                      104.2      105.4      121.3    113.0           59.8         47.2       85.T
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                      665.5      756.3      757.7    758.0          662.3        4T6.o      615.4
PRICE INDEX ( 1978 = 100
COTTON                                  65.9      105.7      118.3    100.0          106.0        138.9      l26.5
COFFEE                                  32.5       62.1      110.0    100.0           78.6         75.0        95.2
SUGAR                                  235.4      176.6      139.7     100.0         107.7        167.1       166.5
BEEF                                    62.9       72.7       71.3    100.0           133.9       131.9       127.3
ALL OTHERS                              77.9       79.2       86.8    1oo.o           113.2       124.8       136.1
TOTAL MERCHANDISE FOB                     66.8       83.1      100.0    100.0           102.3      108.3        119.9
XORN-FACTOR SERVICES                      77.^       79.2       86.8    100.0           113.3      124.8        136.5
TOTAL GOGCZS AND NFS                      68.5       82.6       97.9    100.0           103.3      110.7        122.3
CURRENT VALUES (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
COTTON                                  95.6      130.6      150.6    140.9          135.5        30.0         14.9
COFFEE                                  48.1      119.4      1,)b.8    199.6          1,8.           .        14.8
SUGAR                                   42.6       52.8       27.8      19.6           19.6        25.48.7
BEEF                      .             27.0       37.6       37.3      67.4           93.9        71.5       25168
ALL OTHER GOODS                        161.6      200.8      222.3    218.3           209.2       211.3       2
TOTAL MERCHANUDISE                       374.9      541.12     636.8    646.o           616.6       464.2      635.6
NOt-FACTOR SERVICES                       81.2       83.5      105.3     113.0          67.7         58.9      117.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                      456.1      624.7      742.1    758.0          684.3        527.1      752.6



ANNEX I
-22                                   Page 7 of 8
BAAICE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Actual                          Estimated            Projected
1975      1976       1977      1978                1979           1980       1981
A. Summary of Balance of Payments
Merchandise Exports (FOB)           374.9     541.2      636.8     646.o               616            464         636
Merchandise Imports (FOB)           482.2     496.2      704.1     546.8               389            675         860
Trade Balance                   -107T3       45.0    --67.3      +99.2              +227           -211       -224
Export of NFS                        81.2      83.4      105.3     113.0                68             59        117
Imports of INFS                    121.5      130.8      146.7    -139.2               134            104        143
Net Services                     -40.3      -4T.3      -41.4     -26.2              -66             -45        -26
Resources Gap (-)                  -147.6      -2.3    -108.7        73.0              161           -256        -250
Factor Income, Net                  -53.1     -71.T      -78.0     -73.1              -72             -45        -52
Profits, Net                     -23.8      -27.7      -28.5     -22.4
Interest, Net                    -29.3      -44.o      -49,5     -50.7               _72           -45         _52
Transfers, Net                       16.7      10.0       11.0       10.0               T2             60         15
Current Account Balance           -184.0      -64.o    -175.7         9.9              161           -241        -287
Direct Investment, ;let              11.0      14.0       10.0        7.0                0              0          0
Public M and LT Lcans, Net          156.4      46.2      196.4       50.9               92            254         250
Disbursements                    171.1       75.5      245,3     101.6               112            292         -
Amortization (-)                 -18.14     -33.4      -50.2     -52.2               -20            -38
Loans Repayable in Loca.l
Currency                          3.7       4.1        1.3       1.5                 -             -
Allocation of SDR's                   -         -
'Mort-Term Capital and NEI           23.2       52.5      -87.3    -292.1              -301            -60        -20
Net International       o
Reserves (- = increase)            -6.6    -_48.7    -56.6        224.3               48             147         57
B. Grant and Loan Commitments
Official Grant                       16.T      10.0       11.0      10.0
Total Public M and LT Loall         202.9     172.6      161.5     188.9
IBRD                                  5.C      11.0       22.0      20.0
IDA                                   0.0       0.0        0.0      32.0
Other Mutilateral                    51.9      37.2       27.1     178.8
Governments                         *59.8      68.6       46.9      58.1
of which CPE                          0.0       0.0        0.0        0.                                                    I
Suppliers                            12.2       0.1        6.3        0.0
Financial .Institutions              74.0      55.T       59.2        0.0
Bonds                                 0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Public Loans NEL                      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Other M and LT Loans                  0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
C. Memoranda Itens
Grant Element of Total Comnitments 19.3        19.7   -  11.6       26.4
Average interest (%)                  7.4       6.7        7.4       6.3
Average maturity (yrs.)              16.9      14.9       10.6      19.6



ANNEX I
- 23 -                          Page 8 of 8
Debt and Creditworthiness
A c t u a l
1975       1976       1977       1978        1979
A.  Medium and Long-Term (disbursed only)
1.0  Total Debt Outstanding                         595.14     653.2       866.7      963.8      929.5
2.0  Including Undistursed                          818.3      958.8   1,092.3    1,212.7    1,248.8
3.0  Public debt service                             55.2.      72.3      100.5        97.1       20.06-
3.1  Interest                                        35.6       41.0       51.4        48.2       32.0
4.0  Other M and LT debt service                      0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
5.0  Total Debt Service                              55.0       72.9       100.5       97.1       20.0
B.  Debt Burden
1.0  Debt Service Ratio                              12.1       11.7       13.5        12.8        3.0
2.0  Debt Service Ratio                              17.3       16.1       17.4        15.7        3.0
3.0  Debt Service/GDP                                 3.5        3.9        4.5         4.5        1.3
C.  Terms
1.   Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                  7.8        6.9         7.9        5.6        3.4
2.   Total debt service/Total DOD                    12.1       12.2       15.4        11.2        2.1
D.  Dependency Ratios for M and LT Debt
1.   Gross Disbursements/Imports
(Including NFS)                                26.5        14.2       30.5       20.8        23.7
2.   Net transfer/Imports (DNCL,NFS)                 17.4        2.5       18.7         6.6       12.6
3.   Net transfer/gross disbursements                65.6       17.9       61.3        31.9       53.4
E.  Exposure
1. IBRD Disbursed/gross Total Disb.                   8.7       15.1         5.4        4.9        7.0
2.   Bank Group Disb./Gross Total Disb.              12.2       21.6        6.6         5.5        7.2
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                8.8        9.8        8.7         7.2        9.1
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                         11.0       12.7       11.2         9.3       11.6
5.   IBPR  Debt Service/Total Debt Service            9.9        8.5        7.4         7.2        4o.o
6.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total
Debt Service                                  10.1        8.8        7.6         7.3       41.0
Outstanding December 31, 1979
Amount                Percent
F.  External Debt (Disbursed onlY)
1.   IBRD                                                         84.6                    9.1
2.   Bank Group                                                 107.8                    11.6
3.   Other Multilateral                                         169.7                    18.3
4.  Governments                                                 332.1                    35.7
5.   Suppliers                                                   20.2                     2.2
6.   Financial  Intitutions                                     292.3                    31.4
7.   Bonds                                                        7.5                     0.9
8.   Total M and LT Debt                                        929.5                   1Oo.o
9.   Total M and LT Debt                                        929.5                   100.0
10.   Total M and Lt Debt (Including Undisbursed)              1,248.8                   134.3
1/  Includes direct invest ment income.
2/ Excludes 1978-79 debt in arrears.
/ Amount actually paid
Rest of data from World Bank Tables No.2 8/6/80



ANNEX II
- 24                  Page 1 of4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
A.   STATEMENT OF BNK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                              US$Million
Credit                                                      Amount (netj.yf cancellations)
No.                 Borrower               urpose          Total   IDAL-  Undisbursed
Twenty-two Loans and Credits fully disbursed                115.3   23.6
1244       1976      Government            Education         11.0    -          6.6
1402       1977     ENALUF                 Power             22.0    -         12,8
1495       1978     Empresa Aguadora       Rural Sani-
de Managua            tation            3.0    -          2.4
1496       1978     Empresa Aguadora       Water Supp.
de Managua                             10.1    -          4.0
1785       1980     Government:            Agro-Industry
Rehabilitation  20.0    -         20.0
965       1980     Government:            Urban Recon.             22.0      16 3
966       1980     Government            Agro-Industry
Rehabilitation  -       10.0       4.8
Total                                                 181.4   55.6
of which has been repaid                              43.8    0.3
Total now outstanding                                 137.6   55.3
Amounts sold                         5.6
of which has been repaid            5.2                0.4    -
Total held by Bank and IDA                            137.2   55.3
Total undisbursed                                                         66.9
j/ Includes exchange adjustments.



-25 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.    STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of October 31, 1980)
Year         Obligor                Type of Business      Loan     Equity      Total
(US$ Millions)
1968    Textiles Fabricato         Textile Mill           1.00      1.07       2.07
de Nicaragua, S.A
(FABRITEX)
1976    Nicaragua Sugar             Sugar Mill            6.50       -         6.50
Estates Limited
(NSEL)
1976    Posada del Sol              Hotel                 0.70      0.20       0.90
(Camino Real Hotel)
Total Gross Committed                                     8.20      1.27       9.47
Less cancellations, repayments and sales                  4.33      1.07       5.40
Total Commitment now held by IFC                          3.87      0.20       4.07
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan/Credit No.
Ln.  1244   Second Education Project:  US$ 11.0 Million of June 15, 1976:
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Project implementation has improved greatly in the last few months.
Eighteen basic secondary schools and around 110 out of 222 rural
primary schools are under construction.  Tenders have been called
which would bring the number of schools under construction by the
end of 1980 to around 75% of the total.  Around 55% of the estimated
total value of civil works is in execution.  Repair of the 22
schools built under the First Education Project which were
destroyed during the 1979 civil war was also substantially completed.
Procurement of school furniture and equipment is proceeding
satisfactorily and the teacher training program will resume in
December 1980.  The technical assistance program contracted with
UNESCO was initiated on October 1, 1980. 40% of the loan proceeds
have been disbursed to date. Total project costs have risen by
around 10% due to labor and materials cost increases. The project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.



ANNEX II
- 26 -                        Page 3 of 4
Ln. 1402  Ninth Power Project:  US$22.0 Million of April 22, 1977; Effective
Date:  October 27, 1977- Closing Date:  June  30, 1982.
The project was significantly delayed because of delays in hiring
consultants, difficulties in engaging contractors and because of
ENALUF's (now INE) increasingly tight financial situation. These
earlier difficulties are in large measure a consequence of the
political disturbances wlhich ended with a change of Government in
July 1979. The cost of the project, originally appraised at US$32.3
million is now estimated to be US$40.2 million. After the civil
war,modifications in the project were agreed with the new Government
and INE. They consisted of a reduction in the Bank share of some
parts of the project (financing for which was assumed by CABEI) to
allow the Bank to finance a portion of the local costs of
reconstruction of installations damaged during the war, and
finance replenishment of INE's inventory of distribution equipment.
Since the end of the war, procurement activities under the project
have been satisfactory, except that the tariff and sector organization
studies which were to be financed have not been restarted. Because
of reduced sales and increased operational expenses, largely due
to increased fuel cost, INE continues to face serious financial
problems.  Collection performance which was very poor during and
immediately after the war has improved substantially; however,
proposed tariff increases have not yet been approved.  We are cone
cerned about managerial efficiency but expect a productlve dialogue
on required institutionalL improvements in the context of preparing
the next power project.
Ln. 1495  Rural Sanitation Project:  US$3.0 Million of February 9, 1978;
Effective Date:  July 10, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Follow:ing the civil war and in view of the changed responsibilities of
the Ministry of Health and the water company (INAA), the Government
presented to the Bank a detailed proposal for the modification of the
project scope and the institutional arrangements required for the
Project. Meanwhile, the subprojects already started are being com-
pleted.
Ln. 1496 Managua Water Supply III Project: US$10.1 Million of January 30,
1978; Effective Date: May 26, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project was restructured in October 1979, eliminating some
components which were not of high priority under current circumstances
and using the resulting savings to finance replacement of equipment
destroyed during the war and to increase the financing of local
costs and interest during construction. Although the executing agency
(INAA) has endured a very critical financial position, the company
is now in the process of recovery. All Bank recommendations have been,
or are, in the process of being implemented, and the project is
expected to be completed only six months after the original closing
date of June 30, 1981.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Ln. 1785   Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Pro4-<t:  Loan US$20.0
Cr. 966    Million, Credit US$10.0 Million of January 4, ijdO; Effective
Date: January 25, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
One half of the Loan/Credit was allocated to replanting of ex-
propriated farmland and war damaged private farms and to a coffee
renovation project. Disbursements on this part of the project
have been faster than expected and as of November 7, 1980, US$6.9
million had been disbursed by Bank/IDA. As of September 30, 1980,
the total committed by the project management from the Loan/Credit
to agriculture was about US$17.5 million. Since the utilization
of the industrial component has been slower than that of the
agricultural component and, due to the more immediate needs of
the agricultural sector, US$7 million of the US$15 million industrial
allocation has been reallocated to the agricultural component.
Although 135 private and 6 state farms have benefitted from the
project, the amount has not been sufficient to finance more than
half of the subprojects requiring financial assistance.
The other half of the Loan/Credit had been allocated for the reha-
bilitation of industrial enterprises to enable them to regain pre-
war levels of employment, output and exports through restoring
current production and the repair or replacement of fixed installa-
tions. Of the remaining US$8 million, US$6.5 million has been
committed and the balance is expected to be committed shortly
(subproject approvals for the industrial sector by the Government
now total the full US$8 million).
Cr. 965   Urban Reconstruction Project:  US$22.0 Million of January 4, 1980;
Effective Date: January 25, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Municipal Reconstruction Component (US$6.8 million) is proceeding
on schedule; most repair works on the street and public spaces
have been completed except for the installation of water supply
equipment. Major reconstruction of markets and other municipal build-
ingsare under construction or in the final design stage due in large
part to the quality of the technical teams of the Ministry and
Municipalities. The Small Scale Enterprise Component (US$3.2 million)
handled by the FED has made about 1,800 loans totalling over US$3.0
million which include numerous micro-enterprise loans handled by the
Banco Popular and BND. Progress on the Urban Transport Component
OTS$12.0 million) is also satisfactory; the bus route paving
improvement program is ahead of schedule. Tendering for procurement
of buses and maintenance equipment was approved by the Bank in July
and contracts were signed in mid September. Total disbursements
are at present near appraisal estimate.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
NICARAGUA
PREINVESTMENT FUND (FINAPRI)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             3 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                       FINAPRI
(c)  First presentation to the Association:  March 1980
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:            June 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations:               November 18, 1980
(f)  Planned deadline for effectiveness:       April 1, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Bank Conditions
(a) Changes in FINAPRI's procurement procedures as described in its
operating manual will be made only in agreement with the Asso-
ciation except the amendment providing for hiring procedures
for individual consultants, which is a condition of effective-
ness (para. 53). For hiring of consultants, the Association
will approve the short list: of consultants, the consultant
selected and the negotiated contract (para. 54). Changes in
FINAPRI's operating manual other than those dealing with pro-
curement may be made after consultation with the Association
(para. 38).
(b) The Government will provide the funds needed by FINAPRI to
meet its obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
(para. 41).
(c) The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk (para. 49).
(d) For free limit studies the Association will approve the subject
matter only; for others, it will approve the general outline,
and the :Lnitial budget (para. 52).
(e) As a condition for disbursement FINAPRI will submit to the
AssociatiLon for approval a standard consultant contract
(para. 56).



- 29 -
ANNEX IV
Page I of 8
FINAPRI
A. SUB-PROJECT LIST
The studies enumerated below are in various stages of preparation,
and the budget ascribed to each is likely to change as the terms of reference
are finalized.
There is no firm commitment as yet on any of them, either by the
Governmemt to carry them out or by FINAPRI to accept them for financing. They
are given for purposes of illustration only.
Agriculture                                                             (in US$ million)
1.        Coconut development - possible 5,000 acres plantation
in Atlantic Zone, together with industrialization
of by-products                                                    .50
2.        Cashew development - possible 6,000 acres plantation,
with processing plant                                             .50
3.        Yuca development - improvements in technology for
cultivation, conversion and marketing                             .05
4.        Cocoa development - feasibility of establishing 3,000
acres of plantation in three zones                                .25
5.        African palm development - general studies of cultivation
and exploitation                                                 1.75
6.        Rehabilitation of irrigation project                                 .15
7.        Animal Health Study - covering immunization and disease
control techniques                                                .08
8.        General agricultural development plan, including agro-
industry                                                         1.00
Subtotal     4.28
Industry, including agro-industry
9.        Feasibility study for 1/2 m gal p.a. castor oil plant,
including selection of technology                                 .07
10.       Engineering for above plant                                          .20
11.       Production of alcohol from sugar cane - feasibility,
technology and initial design                                    1.50



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8
12.       Meat production - covering slaughtering, conversion
and marketing                                                      .40
13.       Feasibility study for shelL fish processing plant in
Puerto Cabezas                                                     .20
14.       Study of potential for vegetable products and by-products
for thie pharmaceutical industry                                   .20
15.       General diagnostic study of the pharmaceutical industry
including marketing (this should lead to a number of
specif:Lc studies later in the program)                            .14
16.       Feasibility of producing monovinyl chloride from sugar
cane [via alcohol/ethylene conversion)                           .70
17.       General study of opportunities in the plastics industry
(this should also lead to a number of specific studies)          .15
18.       Feasibility study for terry cloth towel production                   .40
19.       Feasibility study for cotton spinning                                .50
20.       Engineering for above                                               1.00
21.       Textile industry rationalization study                              1.50
22.       Light mechanical industry rationalization study                       .40
23.       Corrugated box production feasibility study                           .05
24.       Sawmill rehabilitation study                                          .03
25.       Feasibility study for gold and silver refinery                       .15
Subtotal      7.59
Energy
26.       Second Momotombo Geothermal development                             1.04
27.       Hydroelectric Project for mining
complex and rural power supply                                     .69
Subtotal      1.73



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
Transport
28.       348 km of rural roads improvement to all-weather
status                                                            .79
29.       San Marcos penetration road (32 km)                                  .06
30.       Lake Nicaragua transport improvement study                           .05
31.       Location study for seven port terminals on Atlantic Coast            .15
32.       Rigoberto Cabeza Stage II road improvement study (120 kms)
including final engineering                                       .06
33.       Feasibility study for continuation of canal and port at
Altura on the Atlantic Coast                                      .75
Subtotal     1.86
Housing nd Urban Development
34.       Housing construction and improvement (36,896 units)                2.08
35.       Improvement of 15 Managua slums                                      .19
36.       Municipal Development Fund                                           .26
Subtotal     2.53
Water Supply and Drainage
37.       Storm drainage                                                       .04
38.       Final engineering, Managua additional water supply                   .50
Subtotal       .54
Education
39.       Equipment improvement - 22 schools                                   .06
40.       Primary education extension centers, detailed design                 .23
41.       Construction and equipment, 9 agricultural schools, design
revision                                                          .08
42.       Construction and equipment, 8 laboratories, detailed design          .12



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8
43.        Construction and equipment for education center in
ManaguLa                                                            .06
44.        Productiona of textbooks                                                 .10
Subtotal        .65
Total                                                            19.18



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
Summary
No. of                  Cost of Studies        Av. Cost
Sector          Projects    % by No.        ISSlS illion       ESiL lli=  % by Cost
Agriculture         8            18             4.28                .54          22
Industry           17           39              7.59                .45          40
Energy               2            4             1.73                .87           9
Transport            6           14             1.86                .31          10
Housing and Urban
Development       3             7             2.53                .84          13
Water               2             4              .54                .27           3
Education           6            14              .65                .11           3
Total              44           100            19.18                .44         100



34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8
B. CASH FLOW
1.        The basic assumptions of the cash flow forecast are that operating
costs, originally forecast in constant dollars, are increased by the total
forecast local inflation; 1/ that costs of studies are increased by 10% p.a.                 t
to compensate for international inflation; that the Government will make
contributions in support of operations until these are covered by interest
and commission; that the Government will make the necessary counterpart funds
available to support the requirements of the portfolio.
2.        The operational information for the forecast was supplied by FINAPRI.
It is very tentative as it is most difficult to project the level of activities
of a newly established Preinvestment Fund. It shows an exceptionally high
early rate of disbursement. This is considered achievable, however, because
the Government has decided to route all preinvestment studies not already
budgeted by the Ministry or Authority concerned through the new institution.
3.        In line with this Government decision and policy, counterpart funds
have been budgeted by the Ministry of Finance to meet such a high rate of
disbursement. If disbursements should be slower than expected, FINAPRI's
income would be afiEected and the point at which FINAPRI will become self
financing would be delayed.
4.        Cash balances have been projected at a constant US$20,000
equivalent.
5.        Funds from other external sources are shown as grants on capital
account and cover the authorized capital of US$6.5 million by end 1983.
Increases, however, do not require special legal authority as the Enabling
Law gives the necessary authority to the Finance Committee of the Government.
6.        The forecast is based on the commitment levels indicated in para. 43.
The IDA credit is expected to be totally disbursed by the end of FY85. The
Credit is to be passed on to FINAPRI on IDA terms and onlent at 8% interest
with a repayment period of up to 10 years.
1/   The impact of inflation (see para. 50) on FINAPRI's operating cost: is
estimated to be 30% in 1980, 20% in 1981 and 1982, 15% in 1983 and 1984
and 10% in 1935 and 1986,



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8
7.        Operating costs average 22% of disbursements over the six-year
period including start-up costs. This is high, but is the rerult of the
considerable technical assistance and promotional work required (para. 36)
The possible income from charging for this work is not shown. The effect
would be roughly to halve the burden on lending operations, which would then
be about 10% of disbursements and less than 3% of portfolio.
8.        Disbursements are calculated at about 18 months from sub-loan
approval. There are no provisions for early repayments, as could occur on
implementation of study recommendations.



FINAPRI
CASH FLOW FORECAST
('000 $ Equivalent)
(in current prices)
Calendar Years               1980          1981        1982        1983         1984        1985        1986       Total
Sources
Equity
1. Govt. Counterpart Contribution          425           365       1,084       2,085        2,839       3,617       5,159      15,574
2. Govt. Contributions Drawn from
External Sources                       45         2,312      1,988       2,090         1,760       2,570       1,900      12,665
3. Govt. Contributions-Start Up            155           135          65         -            -           -           -           355
4. Sub-Total                               625         2,812       3,137       4,175        4,599       6,187       7,059      28,594
Op erat ions
5.. Interest and Commission                -              17         278         641        1,105       1,584       2,084       5,709
60 Less Operating Costs                   (388)         (843)    (1,087)    (1,311)        (1,594)    (1,833)       216        (9,072)
7. Sub-Total                              (388)         (826)       (809)       (670)        (489)       (249)         68      (3,363)
Othgr
8'. Govt. Budgetary Contributions          388           826         809         670          489         249         -         3,431 1
9. Loan Repayments                         -             -            56         597        1,352       2,639       3,667       8,311
10. Borrowings (IDA)                        -             350       1 480       1,640        1,430         100         -         5_000
11. Sub-Total                               388         1,176       2,345       2,907        3,271       2,988       3,667      16X742
12. Total                                   625         3,162       4,673       6,412        7,381       8,926      10,794      41,973
Applications
13. Start Up Costs                          155           i35          65         -            -           -           -           355
14. Loan Disbursements                      450         3,025       4,598       6,389        7,347       8,890      10,756      41,455
15. Debt Service-Interest                   -               2          10          23           34          36           38        143
16. Total                                   605         3,162       4,673       6412         7,381       8,926                  41,953
17. Cash  Surplus-Current                    20
18. Cash Surplus- Cumulative                 20            20          20          20           20          20          20           20
625                      _                         _                                41,973  
19. Portfolio                               450         3,475       8,017      13,809       19,804      26,055      33,144
20. Loan Disbursements-Cumulative           450         3,200       6,944      11,200       15,603      19,693      23,617             a
In Constant $s
1                                                 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G



FINAPRI
ORGANIZATION CHART
|BOARD OF DIRECTORS|
EXTERNAL AUDITING
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
LEGAL ADVISORS
g TECHNICAL DIRECTOR]                                        |  FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR
LOAN          [-TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            LEGAL            BUDGETING AND      ACCOUNTING      ADMINISTRATIVE
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT            PLANNING                            SERVICES
Statistics
SECTORS                                    Nutrition
Industry
Technical      Electromechanical
Information - Natural.Resources
LChemistry
Economic and Financial Analysis
oQ
0



