OFI=   IAL    CREDIT NUMBER 1081 NI
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Preinvestment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     2>4CA"AAe,-     1      ,1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1081 NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
A.REEMENT, dated         CA^W- 44-           , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Financiera de
Preinversion (hereinafter called FINAPRI), with the Borrower's
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to FINAPRI the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) the Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and FINAPRI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect ,s if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set
forth in paragraph (a) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) The words "Sub-projects" are substituted for the words
"the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.


﻿-2-
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to
any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty
days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.05 (d) of
the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit shall
have been received by the Association, or having been so
received, shall have bcn denied or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdiawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such aidount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" La Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and FINAPRI of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and FINAPRI pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;


﻿-3-
(c) "FIR" means "Fondo Internacional para la Reconstruccion
de Nicaragua" of the Borrower, established by Decree No. 46 of the
Borrower, dated September 12, 1979, as ameaded;
(d) "Sub-loan"' means a loan made or proposed to be made
by FINAPRI, for the purposes of the Project, to a Sub-borrower for
a Sub-project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan as so defined
in an amount which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $150,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, for the Sub-project in
question, or (ii) $2,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other
Free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit;
(e) "Sub-borrower" means the person or entity to which
FINAPRI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(f) "Sub-project" means a particular study included in the
Project, approved by the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower,
after consultation with the Investment Committee, and to be
carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-
loan;
(g) "Manual" means FINAPRI's operating manual, which in-
cludes the lending and procurement procedures to be applied in
the carrying out of Sub-projects;
(h) "Statutes" means the statutes of FINAPRI as set forth
in Decreto No. 322, dated February 28, 1980, of the Borrower; and
(i) "Investment Committee" means the committee chaired by
the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower, having as members
respresentatives of FINAPRI, FIR and the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to three million, nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,900,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit allocated may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall
so agree, for amounts to be paid) by FINAPRI on account of (i)
withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower under a Sub-loan to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Sub-
project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; pro-
vided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a Sub-loan unless; (A) the Sub-loan shall have been approved
by the Association, or (B) the Sub-loan shall be a Free-limit
Sub-loan for which the Association shall have authorized with-
drawnls from the Credit Account; and (ii) withdrawals made by
FINAPRI to meet the cost of the technical assistance services
for Part 2 of the Project.
Section 2.03. FINAPRI is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and FINAPRI
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1991, and ending
1.gust 1, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause FINAPRI to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth, and shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable FINAPRI to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to FINAPRI under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and FINAPRI, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including a provision
that any loss incurred by FINAPRI in connection with the payment
of interest or other charges on, or the repayment of principal of,
the Credit resulting from changes in the rate of exchange between
the currencies in which payments or repayments are to be made will
be borne by the Borrower. The Borrower shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such arrangements.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purpose
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
cause the Sub-borrowers, which depend on allocations from the
Borrower's budget, to make punctually all payments of principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Sub-loans.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-6-
(a) FINAPRI, or any successor thereto, shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
FINAPRI or for the suspension of its operations adversely
affecting the execution of the Project; and
(c) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, Decree No.
322 dated February 28, 1980, of the Borrower or any provision
thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated, or new
legislation shall have been adopted by the Borrower so as to
materially and adversely affect the management or operation of
FINAPRI in respect of the Project or the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and FINAPRI; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and FINAPRI;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been executed and
delivered on behalf of FINAPRI; and


﻿-7-
(c) that the Manual has been emended in order to cover the
procurement procedures for individual consultants to be employed
therein, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of 3ection 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, FINAPRI,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of FINAPRI in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of
the Borrower and FINAPRI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of, the Borrower and FINAPRI in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03; The date M44-%             is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date eight years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03
of this Agreement, the Minister Director of FIR is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Fondo Internacional para la
Reconstruccion de Nicaragua
Plaza Espafia
Managua, Nicaragua


﻿-8-
Telex:
1367-FIR
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
4   Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category;
Amount of
the Credit
Allocated                % of
(Expressed           Expenditures
in SDR's                to be
C2tegory                 Equivalent)            Financed
(1) Sub-loans under            3,800,000            80% of amounts
Part 1 of the                                  expended under
description                                    Sub-projects
of the Project
(2) Technical                    100,000            100%
assistance to
FINAPRI under
Part 2 of the
description of
the Project
TOTAL         3,900,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 10 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) by a Sub-borrower on account of Category (1), until
a standard form of an agreement to be entered into between each
Sub-borrower and the consultants is presented to the Association,
in a form satisfactory to the Association; and
(c) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, by a
Sub-borrower on account of Category (1) in respect of a Sub-loan
subject to the Association's approval if such expenditures shall
have been made prior to the date on which the Association shall
have received in respect of such Sub-loan the application and
information required by Section 2.05 (b) of the Project Agreement
or, in respect of a Free-limit Sub-loan prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such Free-limit
Sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.05 (c)
of the Project Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, and without limitation upon the provisions of
this Agreement, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
1.   Making of Sub-loans by FINAPRI for purposes of financing
pre-investment studies, including general sectoral and regional
studies, designed to identify and prepare high-priority investment
projects in the transport, agricultural, energy, education,
agro-industry, industries, fishery, forestry, mining, public
utilities and other economic and social sectors in Nicaragua.
2.   Provision of technical assistance to strengthen FIN-
APRI's capabilities in the preparation of terms of reference and
in the selection and supervision of consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of ____-_   ,
198 LL.
FOR SECRETARY


