D"Fu T AL
CREDIT NUMBER 1081 NI
Projeet Agreement
(Preinvestment Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC..ATION
and
FINANCIERA DE PREINVERSION
Dated             C-, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1081 NI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1980, between
the  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter  called
the Association) and the FINANCIERA DE PREINVERSION (hereinafter
called FINAPRI), established pursuant to Law No. 322, dated
February 28, 1980, of the Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter
called the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for relending to FINAPRI,
through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FINAPRI, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to three million, nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 3,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that FINAPRI
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS FINAPRI, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FINAPRI shall carry out the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic,
financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified
and experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes
and the Manual.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. FINAPRI shall:
(a) make Sub-loans for purposes of the Project on the
following terms and conditions:
(i) interest on the principal amount outstanding of
Sub-loans shall be at least eight per cent (8%) per
annum;
(ii) Sub-borrowers shall repay Sub-loans over a period
of not more than 10 years, including a grace period
of not more than 2 years;
(iii) Sub-borrowers in the private sector shall pay a
commitment charge of not less than one half of one
percent (1/2%) per annum on the undisbursed balance
of Sub-loans; and
(iv) Sub-borrowers shall pay, in addition, a penalty
charge on overdue service payments of not less than
the penalty charge applicable in standard contracts
with financial institutions in the territory of
the Borrower.
(b) review for each year the adequacy of the interest rate
and the penalty charge to be charged to Sub-borrowers in accor-
dance with Sections 2.02 (a) (i) and (iv) above, respectively.
Section 2.03. In order to assist FINAPRI in carrying
out the Project, FINAPRI shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to FINAPRI and the Association.
Section 2.04. FINAPRI shall ensure that Sub-borrowers
will procure consultants' services: (i) in accordance with the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement in the case of a
Sub-loan other than a Free-limit Sub-loan; and (ii) in accordance
with the provisions of the Manual, in the case of a Free-limit
Sub-loan.
Section 2.05. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, FINAPRI shall
submit all Sub-projects to the Association for approval or for
authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account
as the case may be according to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section.


﻿-3-
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a Free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, FINAPRI shall furnish
to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with:
(i) a description of the Sub-borrower and of the
Sub-project, including its costs and a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit;
(ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the
Sub-loan;
(iii) a certificate issued by FINAPRI, stating that all
conditions for the selection of the Sub-project
have been met; and
(iv) such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c) The first request by FINAPRI for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of each Free-limit
Sub-loan shall be for a Free-limit Sub-loan for a purpose
approved, before such request is presented, by the Association and
shall contain:
(i) a summary description of the Sub-borrower and the
Sub-project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit;
(ii) the terms and conditions of such Free-limit Sub-
loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor;
(iii) summary information on the consultants to be
employed therefor in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Manual; and
(iv) a certificate issued by FINAPRI, stating that all
conditions for the selection of the Sub-project
have been met.


﻿(d) Except as the Association and FINAPRI shall otherwise
agree, FINAPRI shall present applications for approval of Sub-
loans pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section
and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before June 30, 1984.
Section 2.06. (a) FINAPRI undertakes that unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby FINAPRI shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of FINAPRI, including, in the case of any
such Sub-loan: (i) the right to require the Sub-borrower to
carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to
require that the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Sub-project; (iii) the right to require the accounts to be
opened in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and
financial statements of the Sub-borrowers to be audited by
independent auditors in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied; (iv) the right to obtain all such
information related to the Sub-project as FINAPRI or the Associa-
tion, through FINAPRI, shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing, to the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of the Sub-borrower and the benefits to be derived from the
Sub-project; (v) the right of FINAPRI to suspend or terminate the
right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by the Sub-borrower to perform its obliga-
tions under its agreement with FINAPRI; and (vi) the right of the
Association to inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-tives
of FINAPRI, all goods and things included in the Sub-project, and
any relevant records and documents, and all the sites and facili-
ties of the Sub-borrower related to the Sub-project.
(b) FINAPRI shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Sub-project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests of
the Association and of FINAPRI, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.07. FINAPRI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, FINAPRI shall not take or concur in any


﻿-5-
action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. FINAPRI shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans, the
Project, the Sub-borrowers, the Sub-projects and the Sub-loans,
including
(i) the periodic reports prepared by the consultants on
each study included in the Project;
(ii) semi-annual progress reports on the Project and on
FINAPRI's operations, staffing and efficiency;
and
(iii) annual lists of studies for which applications
have been made.
Section 2.09. (a) FINAPRI shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the Sub-projects, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) FINAPRI shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by FINAPRI of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. Until the Closing Date: (a) FINAPRI shall
notify the Association prior to amending the Manual and shall
allow the Association a reasonable period to comment on the
proposed amendment; and (b) no provision of the Manual relating to
the procurement procedures set forth therein, except the amendment
referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, shall be changed, amended, suspended or abrogated without
prior approval by the Association.
Section 2.11. In case of any discrepancy between the
procedures set forth in this Agreement for the procurement of


﻿-6-
consultants' services to be financed out the proceeds of a Sub-
loan, other than a Free-limit Sub-loan, and the procedures set
forth in the Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall
prevail.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) FINAPRI shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of FINAPRI and shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine such records.
(b) FINAPRI shall cause each of the Sub-borrowers to estab-
lish and maintain separate accounts for the purposes of the
Project, and shall cause each of the Sub-borrowers to record
therein all receipts and payments for or in connection with the
Project.
Section 3.02. FINAPRI shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of FINAPRI and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of FINAPRI thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date eight years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify FINAPRI of this event, and upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties theretader shall forthwith terminate.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The address so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For Financiera de Preinversion:
Apartado Postal 316
Managua, Nicaragua
Telex:
1064-FINAPRI
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under.
this Agreement and under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by FINAPRI may be taken or executed by
its Executive Director, or by such other person or persons as
FINAPRI shall designate in writing, and FINAPRI shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/&/ B
By            0Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FINANCIERA DE PREINVERSION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement of Consultants' Services
by Sub-borrowers
1.   Consultants' services for the purposes of Section 2.04 (i) of
this Agreement will be procured by Sub-borrowers in accordance
with the Manual and with the additional procedures set forth in
this Schedule.
2.   Before inviting any proposals for the study in question,
FINAPRI shall request the Sub-borrower to furnish to FINAPRI and
FINAPRI shall furnish to the Association (i) draft terms of
reference for such study; (ii) a short list of qualified consul-
tants (including consulting firms) (the List); and (iii) a draft
invitation for proposals, to be sent to the consultants included
in the List, which will include an estimate of the cost of the
study. The draft terms of reference and the List shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
3.   Direct negotiations without prior invitation for competitive
proposals shall only be undertaken with prior approval of the
Association.
4.   FINAPRI shall request the Sub-borrower to furnish to FINAPRI
and FINAPRI shall furnish to the Association:
(i) a copy of the proposal of the consultant selected,
and the ranking of the proposals of the other
consultants.
(ii) the report of evaluation of such proposals;
(iii) if the negotiations with the consultant selected
are unsuccessful, a copy of the proposal next in
ranking to be negotiated; and
(iv) a copy of the negotiated draft consultant's con-
tract to be concluded between such Sub-borrower
and the consultant selected. The draft negotiated
consultant's contract shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 10 -
5.   Two conformed copies of each contract between a Sub-borrower
and a consultant will be sent to the Association. The terms
and conditions of the contract (including the termas of reference)
will not materially differ from the draft approved by the
Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify thajt the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of      .
1980
FOR SECRETARY


