Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20701 LV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21.66 MILLION AND EUR 15.66 MILLION
(US$14.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
RIGAS SILTUMS
FOR A
LATVIA
RIGA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 30, 2000
Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate as of June 2000)
Currency Unit = Lat (Ls)
US$ 1.00 = 0.59 Lat
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CFC              Chlorofluorocarbon
CHP              Combined Heat and Power Plant
DH               District Heating
ERB              Energy Regulatory Board
ERR.             Economic Rate of Return
FRR              Financial Rate of Return
FSU              Former Soviet Union
Gcal             Giga calorie
HOEI             Heat-Only-Boiler
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IS               International Shopping
LIB              Limited International Bidding
LRMC             Long-Run Marginal Cost
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NIB              Nordic Investment Bank
NPV              Net Present Value
NS               National Shopping
PMR              Project Management Report
VAT              Value-Added Tax
Vice President: Mr. Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director: Mr. Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager: Mr. Henk Busz
Tearn Leader: Ms. Carolyn Gochenour



LATVIA
Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
A Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1. Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
2. Key Performance Indicators ...............................................................2
B Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project ...................2
2. Main  Sector Issues and Government Strategy  ..................................                                   .............................2
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed  by the Project and Strategic Choices ...........................................5
C  Project Description Summary ...............................................................7
1. Project Components ...............................................................7
2. Key Policy  and  Institutional Reforms Supported  by the Project ..................................................8
3. Benefits and Target Population ............                               ................................I.                .................9
4. Institutional and Implementation  Arrangements ..........................................                                 .....................9
D Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                                 14
1. Project Altematives Considered  and  Reasons for Rejection ...................................................... 14
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies ................ 14
3. Lessons Learned  and  Reflected  in the Project Design .............................................................. 14
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .............................................................. 15
5. Value Added  of Bank  Support in this Project ..............................................................                                    16
E Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................                                                          17
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                                         17
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                                        19
3. Technical .............................................................. 24
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                                    24
5. Social ..............................................................                                                                          25
6. Environmental Assessment ..............................................................                                                         26
7. Participatory  Approach .............................................................. 27
F Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                         28
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                                  28
2. Critical Risks .............................................................. 28
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................................................. 30



G Main Loan Conditions ....................                                      31
1. Effectiveness Conditions ...................                                  31
2. Agreements Reached During Negotiations .31
3. Condition of Disbursement ....................                                32
H Readiness for Implementation .32
I Compliance with Bank Policies .32
Annexes
Annex l      Project Design Summary                                             33
Annex 2      Project Description                                                35
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs                                            36
Annex 4      Cost-Benefit Anallysis Summary                                     37
Annex 5      Financial Summary for Rigas Siltums                                46
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                          47
Table A      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                        50
Table Al     Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule                       51
Table B      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review              53
Table C      Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                      54
Annex 7      Project Processing Schedule                                        55
Annex 8      Documents in the Project File                                      56
Annex 9      Social Assessment                                                  57
Annex 10     Statement of Loans and Credits                                     89
Annex 1 I    Latvia at a Glance                                                 90
Map IBRD 30632



Latvia
Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: June 30, 2000                                 Team Leader: Ms. Carolyn Gochenour
Country Manager/Director: Mr. Basil G. Kavalsky     Sector Manager: Mr. Henk Busz
Project ID: LV-PE-8530                              Sector: Energy
Lending Instrument: SL                              Theme(s): Energy Efficiency
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   1 ]  Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data:
[X]    Loan   [ ]   Credit    [    Grant       []  Guarantee     [   Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 21.66 million and EUR 15.66 million (US$ 14.5 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms:  [ ] To be defined     [ ]  Multi-currency    [ I Single currency
Standard Variable  [X] Fixed-spread,    [ ]   LIBOR-based
US$ and EUR-
denominated at
the    standard
variable interest
rate for US$ and
EUR
Grace period (years):      5
Years to maturity:         17
Commitment fee:            0.85% on undisbursed balances for first 4 years, standard charge of 0.75% on undisbursed
balances thereafter, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Front-end fee on Bank loan: 1.0% on principal amount, capitalized
Financing Plan (US $m):  [I  Details to be defined
Sources:                                                 Local            Forein             Total
Rigas Siltums                                            43.8               6.7              50.5
Riga Municipality                                         2.7               2.5               5.2
World Bank                                                14.7             21.5              36.2
AB Svensk Exportkredit                                                     26.6              26.6
Swedish Government Grant                                                    2.1               2.1
Finnish Government and Other Grants                                         0.3               0.3
Commercial Banks' Loans                                   10.3              6.9              17.2
Total Cost + Front-end Fee                                71.5             66.6              138.1
Borrower: Rigas Siltums
Guarantor: Latvia
Estimated Disbursements
(Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2001        2002         2003         2004         2005        Total
Annual      2.2          9.1         13.0         8.8          3.0         36.2
Cumulative      2.2         11.3         24.4         33.1         36.2
Project Implementation Period: CY 2000-2004
Expected Effectiveness Date: December 15, 2000       Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2005
Implementing Agency: Rigas Siltums
Contact Person:        Hugo Pavuls, Project Manager
Address:               Cesu Street 3, Riga, Latvia 1012
Tel: 371-7017240              Fax: 371-7 017 363             E-mail: hugo.pavuls@rs.lv



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The key development objective of the Riga District Heating (DH) Rehabilitation Project is to optimize
DH system operational performance, increase the efficiency of heat supply, distribution and consumption,
improve the reliability of service delivery, enhance energy conservation and improve environmental
conditions of Riga's district heating system through transmission and distribution network rehabilitation,
substation modernization and new technologies, while promoting sound pricing policies and commercial
practices to allow for the competitive development of Rigas Siltums and its possible eventual
privatization. The project would also provide institutional support to Rigas Siltums.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators, as shown in Annex 1, include (a) share of heat utilized from CHP plants;
(b) level of heat and hot water losses in the DH system; (c) bulk and retail heat tariffs; and (d) financial
performance indicators of Rigas Siltums (e.g., debt service coverage ratio, current ratio, accounts
receivables, profitability).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17706-LV                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/ 21/98
The sector-related goal stated in the CAS is to help Latvia address municipal, environmental and public
utility issues and contribute to enhancing capacity in these areas, specifically by supporting the adoption
of sound pricing policies and utility practices and the commercialization and institutional development of
DH companies. This is expected to pave the way for their eventual privatization and for attraction of
private capital. Substantial interest has been expressed by the donor and financial community to provide
co-financing in this area if the Bank; is involved in helping Latvia to set the policy framework, especially
in the area of energy pricing, and build the institutions in the sector.
2. Main sector issues and Governrnent strategy:
Sector Issues
DH systems exist in all major Latvian cities and provide 70% of the national heat demand. DH systems
provide most of the heat and hot water for urban dwellers as well as steam for industry, produced in
combined-heat-and-power (CHP) plants or in heat-only-boiler (HOB) plants and transported through
pipeline networks to block and/or individual substations and finally to buildings. In the capital city of
Riga, DH is provided by Rigas Siltums, a joint-stock company owned 49.73% by Riga City Council,
49.72% by the state of Latvia administered by the Latvian Privatization Agency, 0.54% by Baltic Transit
Bank and 0.0 1% by Latvenergo.
Since independence in 1991, maintenance of the DH systems has been underfunded, resulting in serious
corrosion of fixed assets, especially pipelines, due to the deteriorating water quality. As a result, heat and
hot water losses are high compared to Western systems. The lack of automation and heat metering at
consumer connections in substations and, to some extent, at boiler plants results in additional wastage of
heat energy.  Latvian DH systems operate on constant flow and variable temperature conditions,
rendering the dispatch of the heat load to plants having the lowest generation cost cumbersome.
Introduction of a variable flow reg,ime through automated substations with consumption metered and
controlled by consumers could reduce heat energy consumption by as much as 25% for the same service
levels and considerably improve comffort.
2



In the largest Latvian cities, DH systems were designed to utilize mostly heat from the more efficient
CHP plants rather than from HOBs. The CHP plants, in the present situation, are not owned by the same
utility as the DH networks and are not utilized to their full potential. In Riga, for example, the national
power company Latvenergo owns the two CHP plants (TEC 1 and TEC 2) but is utilizing only 60% of the
heat production capacity of one of its CHIP plants. This is mainly because heat demand has decreased
since independence and the present DH system, based on constant flow regime, does not allow the
increased dispatch of heat to CHLP plants without investments that would allow a change in the DH system
to variable flow regime. Also, increasing the utilization of the Riga CH-P plants has not been an urgent
need until recently, as imported electricity was available at a lower cost than electricity produced in the
Riga CHP plants. This has led to higher bulk heat production costs to the DH companies than otherwise
would be the case. In addition, in some cases outside Riga the CBP plants are privately-owned and
exploit their natural monopoly situation and weak regulatory capacities at the municipal level by charging
unreasonably high heat tariffs to municipal DH companies.
Fuel prices of imported gas and mazut, which are utilized in heat production, have increased dramatically
since 1991, now approximating world market levels, and have led to higher prices for essential services,
especially heat. For example, in Riga the DH tariff (including VAT) is currently about US$31.221Gcal,
which is very close to the average level of about US$33/Gcal in Finland.
DH tariffs are regulated by the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB), which can delegate this responsibility to
local Governments. All local Government units have accepted the responsibility to regulate heat tariffs,
except Riga where the City management prefers to leave this responsibility with the ERB. A draft Law
on Multi-Sectoral Regulation has passed two readings in the Parliament and the third and last reading is
scheduled for September 2000. The current draft stipulates that regulation of tariffs for public services,
including heating, provided at the municipal level is to be the responsibility of local Governments. In this
case, the regulation of heat tariffs in Riga would become the responsibility of Riga City.
DH tariffs generally cover the costs of heat production and distribution, but because household incomes
have not grown commensurately with the rise in DH prices, non-payment by customers has become a
major problem for many heating utilities. Municipal govemments have introduced social assistance
programs for vulnerable households, but generally these programs are not effective in providing an
adequate level of support. In Riga, however, the experience differs from other cities in Latvia. Here, the
DH enterprise has improved the collection of heat bills substantially since its creation in May 1996 and
payment performance reaches approximately 100% today.
DH is facing increasing competition from other heating options, primarily decentralized gas-fired
building boilers, particularly in areas where heat load densities are low. This situation has resulted partly
from distortions in the pricing of co-generated heat as well as of gas, as today the benefits from co-
generation are not shared with DH and household gas consumers are cross-subsidized by industrial gas
consumers. Reducing the price distortions in co-generated heat and in gas would have a major impact in
favor of DH, since it would be the least-cost heating option in high-density population areas.
Because of the large share of CHP electricity production in Latvia's power balance, the two CHP plants in
Riga's DH system have a significant impact on Latvia's power sector, providing 20% of total power
demand or 30% of domestic power production in 1999 (as compared to 24% of domestic production in
1998). The share of CHP electricity increases in years when water levels in the Daugava River are low,
reducing power production from hydropower plants. Out of the national power balance of 6.0 Terawatt-
hours (TWh) during 1999, power was supplied as follows:
3



Latvenergo:                                               TWh
Hydropower plants                                46%    2.74
Riga CHP plants                                  20%    1.22
Independent producers                              1%    0.08
Net imports from Estonia, Lithuania, Russia & Belarus   33%  1.96
Total                                             100%    6.00
The future role of Latvenergo's Riga CHP plants in electricity generation is directly related to the role of
the CHP plants in heat production. Should demand for heat from these two CHP plants be lost if the DH
system is significantly reduced in Riga because of the current price distortions, then Latvenergo's CHP
plants would not be competitive in power-only mode and would be closed down. In this case, Latvia
would become substantially more dependent on electricity imports and lose a huge sunk cost in DH
assets. On the other hand, should the DH service remain viable in Riga and should it be rehabilitated in
such a manner that DH load could be dispatched to Riga's ClP plants allowing for a greater utilization of
heat from these plants, electricity production from these plants could be greatly increased, thereby
reducing Latvia's dependence on electricity imports. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance to address
the price distortions to ensure that the resulting system will be the least-cost, long-run option for both the
provision of electricity and heat.
On February, 22 2000, the Govemnment of Latvia issued Decree No. 82, deciding to restructure
Latvenergo into a holding company with separate daughter companies for hydropower generation, co-
generation, electricity transmnission and distribution. Through this decree, the Government of Latvia has
made a firm decision to: (i) separate power generation, transmission and distribution businesses presently
operated by the vertically integrated company and to establish independent legal units; (ii) privatize 49%
of the shares of both Riga CHP plants (TEC I and TEC 2) by applying international best practice
methods; and (iii) evaluate different scenarios for privatization of the state-owned shares of Rigas
Siltums. Through this process, the Government of Latvia aims to attract capital and management
experience required for the development of the sector. For the fulfillment of these tasks, the Government
has initiated an open international tendering procedure in order to hire an investment advisor/bank
possessing international experience in similar power sector restructuring and privatization projects. The
opening of the bids is scheduled for end-June 2000 with the aim to contract the potential advisor by end-
July 2000.
Energy Sector Strategy
The Government's strategy for the energy sector is spelled out in the Latvian National Energy Program
(NEP) up to the year 2020, approved in June 1997 by the Cabinet of Ministers. The key objective is to
ensure safe energy supplies at the most competitive cost and with the lowest affordable environmental
impacts. This objective is to be achieved by improving energy efficiency, advancing integration into
European Union energy markets, liberalizing and restructuring the energy sector, creating an environment
for private investments in the energy sector, introducing pricing policies based on economic costs and
market principles, promoting utilization of domestic energy resources, decreasing dependence of Latvia
on energy imports and supporting development of environmentally-friendly energy sources.
The NEP consists of 12 sub-prograrns including goals for the entire energy sector, including energy
efficiency, thermal energy, electriciity, gas supply, other energy sources, environment protection,
legislation, institutional regulation, education and science.  The thermal energy sub-program  gives
emphasis to increasing energy production through the co-generation process and without cross-subsidies.
The NEP was followed by the State and Municipal Thermal Energy Policy which was approved by the
Cabinet of Ministers in September 1997. The main objective of the State and Municipal Thermal Energy
Policy is to ensure safe supplies of thermal energy to all groups of consumers at the lowest possible cost.
4



Since the existing DH systems represent enormous investments, the Government's strategy is to focus on
rehabilitation of these systems where they are shown to be the least-cost heating option. Additionally, the
Policy highlights the importance of the commercialization of the DH sub-sector for the long-run
development of the heating industry and to allow for the attraction of private capital. Rehabilitation
programs should emphasize increasing efficiency of their operation and reduction of environmentally
harmful emissions. The Policy envisions increasing the share of thermal energy produced through co-
generation and decentralizing heat supply in areas with low average heat load densities. DH systems are
generally owned by municipalities and must take into account local conditions.  Governmental
institutions should create stable legislative and regulatory environments in order to motivate
municipalities to reduce their direct involvement in the heating business and to attract the interest of
financial institutions and private investors.
The functions and rights of municipalities with regard to heat supply are specified in the Law on Local
Governments and in the Energy Law. The Law on Local Governments, approved in May 1994, states that
one of the permanent functions of municipalities is to organize a number of infrastructure services,
including heat supply. The Energy Law, approved in September 1998, provided further elaboration of the
municipalities' function "to organize" to include: (i) provide conditions for efficient operation of DH
supply systems and fuel supply; (ii) plan for heat supply development in compliance with the
admninistrative territorial development and environmental protection principles; (iii) define heat supply
development taking into consideration possibilities for use of local energy resources and security of heat
supply as well as long-term marginal costs, and approve such development plan together with the
regulator; (iv) determine the preferable heat supply alternatives in different parts of the administrative
territory; and (v) approve heat supply type in new constructions or expansions in compliance with the
approved heat supply development concept. The Energy Law stipulates that energy consumers can select
only that heat supply alternative that is in accordance with the heat supply development prospects of the
respective municipality.
Municipalities planning to undertake investments to rehabilitate their DH systems are required to
elaborate municipal programs for the least-cost heating strategy. The Riga City Council accepted a
"Concept for Thermal Energy Supply in Riga" in December 1997, which in principle recognizes that DH
is the least-cost option for Riga associated also with the lowest cost and level of pollution and the highest
safety and service quality. Preserving and improving the existing DH system in Riga is judged to be the
preferred way to ensure essential heating services are provided throughout the city.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project aims at addressing the sector issues by supporting the implementation of investment
programs and institutional reforms that: (a) address the backlog of maintenance in DH networks and
consumer installations to improve energy efficiency in the DH system in Riga; (b) promote pricing
reforms of bulk heat from CH-P plants to allow for greater sharing of benefits from the co-generation
process between heat and electricity, thereby improving the affordability of heat; and (c) support the
continuation of DH in an area where it is shown to be the least-cost heating option. The project would
also support the privatization of Latvenergo's DH production assets by requiring that a bulk heat purchase
contract for heat by Rigas Siltums from CHP plants owned by Latvenergo be put in place, helping
potential investors to determine the discounted cash flow value of these assets.
The project considered a number of strategic choices related to location and heat supply options,
including various options for increasing the share of heat produced by CHP plants.
5



(a)    Location. Latvia has decided to undertake this second Bank-supported DH project in the capital
city of Riga where the DH enterprise is judged to have the financial strength to undertake an investment
program and repay the loans. Daugavpils Municipality, the second largest city in Latvia, also considered
participating in the project, but withdrew in early January 1999 because of the limited ability of the
Municipality to provide a guarantee for the repayment of a loan, the limited borrowing capacity of its DH
enterprise, and its desire to proceed with investments utilizing its own funds and local loans. Other
locations (e.g., Liepaja) were considered but not included due to their weaker financial situation.
(b)    Heat SUPply Options. Riga has reviewed the alternatives of: (a) rehabilitating the DH system,
including undertaking additional investments (e.g., pipeline interconnection) to allow for a greater use of
heat produced in Latvenergo's CHP plant; (b) abandoning the DH service and introducing decentralized
gas-fired mini-boilers in individual buildings; and (c) a combination of the two above. It has been
decided to pursue the least-cost heat supply option based on rehabilitation of the DH system and an
increased use of CBP production at Latvenergo's existing TEC 2 plant through a pipeline interconnection
of the right and left banks of the Daugava River. An increased share of heat produced from CHP plants
would improve energy efficiency, reduce the bulk heat price and improve the affordability of the DH
service to better ensure its long-run competitiveness with decentralized heating options. Additionally,
increased use of the CHP plant for heat production would allow for increased domestic electricity
production, reducing Latvia's need for electricity imports.
6



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The district heating rehabilitation program would include: (a) supply and installation of automated
consumer substations, and associated piping, for approximately 7,235 buildings without modem
substations, to allow for heat utilization based on variable flow and heat supply from the most efficient
and presently underutilized TEC 2 CHP plant; (b) replacement and rehabilitation of selected corroded DH
pipe sections to minimize heat and hot water losses and to increase the life of the DH system; (c)
construction of a river-crossing pipeline, pumping station and other necessary network components,
interconnecting the right and left banks of the Daugava River to allow heat supply to the left bank from
TEC 2; (d) various improvements at the Imanta heat-only boiler house, such as water treatment, burners,
and a control system to allow the boiler house to be used as a peak load and reserve plant in the future;
and (e) elimination of inefficient and polluting coal- and mazut-fired small boilers serving isolated
networks by connecting the respective areas to the DH system.
The optimization of heat supply would facilitate increasing TEC 2's low-cost electricity generation from
the present 1,200 GWh/year to 1,900 GWh/year. This would allow for a larger amount of co-generation
benefits to be allocated to the bulk heat sales, thereby allowing for a more competitive and affordable
retail heat tariff. The automated consumer substations would also support reduction of the building heat
consumption by approximately 20% due to more accurate temperature control.
The investments at Latvenergo's TEC 2 CHP plant which were considered necessary for the project (i.e.,
improvements in water treatment and installation of circulation pumps speed control) have recently been
implemented by Latvenergo utilizing its own funds.  Latvenergo has also implemented other
improvements at TEC 2 in order to improve its overall efficiency.
The feasibility study identified certain areas in the Riga DH system where the heat load density is very
low and does not justify continuation of DH as the least-cost option. The areas with low heat load
densities comprise only a small fraction of the heat demand in Riga (about 4% of heat demand in the main
DH system). The decommissioning of DH in these areas has already started, and installation of individual
gas-fired boilers for about one-half of the demand has already been completed. Decommissioning of DH
in the remaining areas is expected to be completed as soon as possible and is not included in the project
scope.
The program of institutional support would include: (a) consultancy services for implementation support
for Rigas Siltums in the areas of procurement, project financial reporting and disbursement; (b)
consultancy services for Rigas Siltums to assist in the evaluation of the applicability of two-tier heat
tariffs with fixed and variable components, with a particular emphasis on raising public awareness on the
suitability of this tariff structure; (c) advisory services for Riga Municipality to improve the effectiveness
of its social assistance program; and (d) consultancy services to evaluate ownership options of Rigas
Siltums and to develop an action plan for the selected institutional set-up of Rigas Siltums.
7



Consumer Substations (7,235)       Physical           66.5          48.3        _      _   _    _=
Network Rehabilitation             Physical           31.3          22.7 i_1.9             38.0
Interconnection Network            Physical           23.7           17.2      20.1        84.8
Daugava Pumping Station            Physical            1.6           1.2       1.4          87.5
Production Plant Rehabilitation    Physical            4.4           3.2 X  __=                  _
Elimination of Inefficient Boilers  Physical           3.4           2.5       2.4         70.6
Design and Site Management          Project            4.3           3.1
Nlanagement
Institutional Support:
Implementation Support            Project            1.6           1.2
Management
Social Assistance Support        Institution         0.1           0.1
Building
Tariff Study                     Institution         0.5           0.4
Building
Rigas Siltums Institutional      Institution          0.2           0.1
Strategy                           Building
Total Project Costs                                   137.6         100.0      35.8        26.0
Interest During Construction - Borrower                4.0           2.9
Financed_
Front-End Fee                                          0.4           0.3       0.4         100.0
Total Financing Required                              142.0         103.2      36.2        25.5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms concern the following:
(a)    The pricing of bulk tariffs for heat from the CHP plant in a way that would distribute a greater
share of the benefits of co-generation to heat, which would improve the affordability and competitiveness
of the DH service;
(b)    Evaluation of a two-tier tariff structure to ensure that proper signals are given to energy
consumers, thereby encouraging energy conservation;
(c)    Technical change in the operation mode of the DH system through investments that would allow
for system optimization, including construction of a pipeline interconnection, and through renovation of
consumer substations allowing for a greater share of lower-cost heat produced in CHP plants to be
utilized in the DH system; and
(d)    Facilitation of the valuation of Latvenergo's heat production plants for their planned privatization
through a bulk heat supply contract to be negotiated with Rigas Siltums.
B



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
The proposed project would have significant economic and environmental benefits for the consumers of
DH in Riga and for the Latvian economy in general. These benefits are related to: (a) increases in Riga
DH consumers' welfare from an improved service level, individual heat controls, elimination of
overheating, and lower heat tariffs than otherwise would be possible; (b) resource savings from lower fuel
consumption, lower operation and maintenance costs, reduced heat and water losses, lower unit costs of
electricity and heat supply (due to better use of existing capacity in CHP plants and less electricity
imports; (c) reliability improvements from less interruptions in heat supply and more uniform supply
temperatures; and (d) environmental improvements from less atmospheric emissions due to the lower
usage of natural gas and mazut in heat production and, on a global level, from the substitution of imported
electricity with electricity produced in the more environmentally-friendly CHP mode. In addition,
additional employment would be generated from the design, assembling and installation of DH
equipment.
Target Population
The project would benefit the Latvian population and specific social groups. The improved service levels
would benefit primarily residential and public consumers, including a large number of low-income users,
including pensioners, living in high-rise apartment buildings served by DH. The resource savings from
the more efficient operation of the DH system and the lower bulk heat price would benefit Rigas Siltums,
the largest DH utility in Latvia. The additional electricity generated in Latvia at a lower unit cost would
allow Latvia to be less dependent on electricity imports, which would benefit the Latvian population in
general. Government would gain from the increase in tax revenue on investment expenditures. The
environmental improvements would benefit Riga's population. Labor would benefit from the increased
job opportunities generated by the project during the design, construction and operational periods.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Financing Plan
It is proposed that the World Bank would provide a loan denominated in US$ 21.66 million and EUR
15.66 million (US$ 14.5 million). AB Svensk Exportkredit, as arranged by the Swedish International
Development Co-operation Agency (Sida), would provide a loan in the amount of US$ 26.6 million, and
commercial bank(s) would provide a loan(s) of US$ 17.2 million. The Swedish Government through
Sida would contribute the majority or US$ 2.1 million of the US$ 2.4 million of grant funds required for
the institutional support component, and the Finnish Government would contribute another US$ 0.2
million. Another US$ 50.5 million would be provided by Rigas Siltums out of its own internally
generated funds. The loan amounts of the co-financiers were confirmed during negotiations. Submission
of satisfactory evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AB Svensk Exportkredit
and commercial banks' loans have been fulfilled would be a condition for effectiveness of the World
Bank Loan.
Riga Municipality also confirmed its intention to participate in the financing plan by providing US$ 5.2
million (or Ls 3 million) towards the cost of the substation equipment in key public buildings owned by
the City. US$ 1.7 million of investments have already been undertaken during 1999, US$ 0.8 million has
been allocated in the City's budget for 2000, and the balance of US$ 2.7 million is expected to be
allocated in the City's budgets for 2001-02.
9



For the institutional support program included in the project, the cost of all components would be
financed by grants from donors. Grant funding in the amount of US$ 2.3 million from donors was
confirmed prior to negotiations of the World Bank Loan.
Lending Arrangements
The World Bank Loan would be provided directly to Rigas Siltums with a guarantee from Latvia
(represented by the Ministry of Finance). The Ministry of Finance expressed an interest for the Loan to
be made directly to Rigas Siltums with a sovereign guarantee. Rigas Siltums selected the fixed spread
loan denominated in US$ and EUR, payable in 17 years, including a 5 year grace period, with a
commitment-linked repayment schedule and level principal repayment, at the standard variable interest
rate for US$ and EUR fixed spread loans. A front-end fee of 1% on the principal amount would be
capitalized in the loan amount. A commitment charge of 0.85% per annum on the undisbursed balances
for the first four years and the standard charge of 0.75% on undisbursed balances thereafter would be
applied, beginning 60 days after loan signing, less any waiver. The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by Rigas Siltums. The Ministry of Finance would levy a charge for the guarantee of between 0.5-5.0%,
depending on the risks and financial strength of Rigas Siltums. It has been assumed that the guarantee fee
would be 0.5%, based on the current and likely future financial strength of Rigas Siltums. A guarantee
contract would be entered into between Latvia and Rigas Siltums as a condition for effectiveness of the
World Bank Loan.
After an initial request in 1997 from the Latvian Government to the Swedish Government's Baltic Sea
Fund, Sida has been assigned to arrange a Credit for the purpose of assisting in financing the project.
Sida, as Arranger, has appointed AB Svensk Exportkredit (the Lender) to administer and fund the Credit.
A Credit Agreement would be entered into between the Arranger/Lender and Rigas Siltums (the
Borrower) and the Government of Latvia (the Guarantor). The lending terms of the proposed Swedish
Credit are expected to closely correspond to the World Bank loan terms. The main terms of the Swedish
Credit include a maturity of 17 years, including a grace period of 5.5 years, and an interest rate of LIBOR
plus a margin of 0.05% for US dollars or Swedish Crowns. A commitment fee of 0.25% per annum
would apply to the undisbursed part of the Credit. The Borrower would also be required to pay the
negotiations expenses. The foreign exchange risk of the Swedish Credit would be borne by Rigas
Siltums.
The commercial banks' loan(s) would also be made directly to Rigas Siltums with a guarantee from
Latvia. The lending terms of the proposed commercial banks' loans are expected to also correspond
closely to the World Bank loan terms and would be in Lats. The commercial banks' loan would include a
maturity of 10-15 years, including a grace period of about 5 years, and an interest rate of RIGIBOR plus a
margin of 2.0%.
Implementation
Rigas Siltums would be responsible for implementation of the project which would be carried out over
the five-year period 2000-2004. Rigas Siltums has established a Project Management Organization
(PMO), a separate unit within the company.  The PMO  includes sections for:  (a) legal, (b)
economics/accounting, (c) project development and (d) procurement.  Rigas Siltums has already
appointed a highly qualified Project Manager and a highly qualified Technical Manager, who would have
primary responsibility for the technical aspects of the project. In addition, Rigas Siltuins' has appointed
the Head of the Procurement Unit, Development Project Manager as well as the Project Economist and
the Project Accountant who would manage the project's budgeting, accounting and financial reporting.
Other technical, legal, commercial and financial personnel have also been retained with satisfactory
qualifications. A Project Manual, including detailed job descriptions for the PMO, was also prepared prior
to Loan negotiations.
10



International and local consultants would work together with Rigas Siltums' project management team
during implementation. The foreign consultants would be employed to assist with procurement and
disbursement and would provide in-house training to Rigas Siltums' procurement and financial personnel.
The technical designs would be carried out partly by Rigas Siltums' Technical Department and partly by
contracting out design work to local engineering firms. The foreign consultants would also be expected
to assist in the technical design. Terms of reference for the foreign consultants have been discussed and
agreed, and the foreign consultant has been retained. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that
Rigas Siltums maintain until project completion a PMO with functions and responsibilities agreed with
the Bank and ensure that the PMO at all times (i) is headed by an experienced Project Manager, (ii) has
adequate staff, and (iii) is assisted by consultants, as needed,. all with qualifications, experience and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement
The World Bank would finance the replacement of corroded DH network, construction of a pipeline
interconnection of the right and left bank networks of the DH system, a pumping station, supply of
insulation materials and fittings for the networks, and the elimination of inefficient boilers for an
estimated total cost of US$ 35.8 million. AB Svensk Exportkredit would finance DH substations for an
estimated total cost of US$ 26.6 rmillion, and the Swedish Government, through its aid agency Sida,
would fund consultants' services to assist Rigas Siltums in project implementation and for undertaking a
heat tariff study in an amount of about US$ 2.1 million. The Finnish Government is expected to fund the
consultants' services related to the institutional study of Rigas Siltums in the amount of about US$ 0.2
million. The commercial bank(s) would finance additional DH substations and related works and
rehabilitation of secondary networks and production plant for an estimated total cost of US$ 17.2 million.
Riga City would finance 300 large district heating substations for key public buildings (such as schools
and hospitals) for an estimated total cost of $5.2 rmillion. Rigas Siltums has already, during 1999,
financed DH substations, rehabilitation of primary and secondary networks and elimination of some
inefficient boilers in the amount of US$ 8.4 million and would finance procurement of various additional
DH equipment and materials for networks, installation of substations, boiler house rehabilitation, as well
as taxes on the amounts of the components financed by the foreign financiers (US$ 19.8 million) for an
estimated total cost of US$ 42.1 million.
The project procurement elements, their estimated costs and bidding methods, procurement plan
providing packaging, and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions are summarized in Annex
6, Table Al. All other procurement information, including (a) date of General Procurement Notice
publication; (b) Bank procurement review process; and (c) implementing agency's procurement capacity
assessment as well as required training are summarized in Annex 6, Table B.
World Bank-financed procurement would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement (published in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999). All World Bank-financed procurement would follow international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures, except that up to 2% of procurement could be in accordance with international
shopping procedures acceptable to the World Bank.
The AB Svensk Exportkredit, commercial banks, Riga City and Rigas Siltums' financed procurement
would be carried out in accordance with their respective applicable procurement policies and procedures.
The procurement arrangements under the co-financing arrangements, while under the responsibility of the
borrower and the co-financiers, were reviewed and found acceptable to the World Bank.
Receipt by the concerned financiers of the technical specifications and draft bidding documents for the
first year's investment program was a condition for negotiations of the World Bank Loan.
11



Disbursement
Rigas Siltums has expressed a preierence for disbursement of the World Bank Loan to be based on
submission of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) and channeled through a Special Account
in a commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. The Ministry of Finance confirmed that a Special
Account for this purpose would be established in the name of Rigas Siltums. Based on the quarterly PMR,
the World Bank would advance funds into the Special Account for the amount required for the upcoming
period. The review of the financial management and intermal control procedures indicate that Rigas
Siltums would be eligible for PMR-based disbursement. The Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
would be the first project in Latvia to utilize this arrangement.
Rigas Siltums has been informed of the rules for the processing of PMR-disbursements, as well as of the
Bank's requirements for supporting documentation to be presented in the quarterly PMR. Rigas Siltums
has also been informed that the expenditures reported in the PMRs would be reviewed by the auditor.
The arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account were confirmed during negotiations.
Proceeds of the World Bank Loan would be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. During
negotiations, agreement was obtainecl regarding the disbursement arrangements and the establishment and
operation of the Special Account.
The AB Svensk Exportkredit loan would be disbursed mainly through direct payments to suppliers and
contractors and also by directly reimbursing Rigas Siltums for payments made for eligible expenditures.
The disbursement arrangements for the AB Svensk Exportkredit loan were discussed and agreed during
negotiations of the AB Svensk Exportkredit loan.
Financial Management System
Rigas Siltum's present financial management system is of high standard and is now judged to have the
capacity for project management reporting after some minor adjustments were made. The Bank's
financial management specialist found that the system's strengths are: (a) an advanced and flexible
accounting system (SAP R/3); (b) a budget system that allows for regular monitoring of cost centers and
actual financial performance through comparison with budget and targets; (c) a well-designed internal
control system; (d) competent and committed staff and good personnel management; and (e) sound
auditing arrangements. The financial management and internal control procedures are guided by a
Financial Management Manual, which was prepared by an international consultant and is acceptable to
the Bank. The manual provides flow charts with detailed process and activity descriptions of all
organization units, chart of accounts and cost centers. Furthermore, it includes detailed job descriptions
for each staff position.
Accounting and Internal Control
In order to provide accurate and timely information on project sources and uses of funds, Rigas Siltums
would prepare Project Financial Statements. It has been agreed that the project accounting would be
integrated into Rigas Siltum's existingy accounting in the SAP system. The quarterly Project Management
Reports would be compiled using input from the various concerned departments in the existing
organization. To enhance the capabiliity of existing systems and procedures: (a) the Treasury Module for
SAP R13 was activated and an interface with the system was created to allow for automatic project
reporting; (b) procedures and routines for project accounting were documented in flow charts and job
descriptions in the relevant sections olf the financial and project manuals; and (c) all source documents for
project accounting would be stored in fire-resistant cabinets.
12



Auditing Arrangements
Rigas Siltums' financial statements (income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement) would be
prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards, while the Project Financial Statements
would be prepared in accordance with the format provided by the Bank. Both the company and project
statements would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the audit report would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit report of the Project
Financial Statements would also contain a separate opinion on the operation of the Special Account.
Arthur Andersen audited the 1997, 1998 and 1999 financial statements of Rigas Siltums.  This
arrangement would be acceptable to the Bank. The auditor would be expected to be appointed or
reconfirmed three months before the end of the fiscal year. During negotiations, agreement was obtained
regarding the accounting and auditing requirements of the project.
Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting
The assessment carried out by the Bank shows that Rigas Siltums is a well-managed company, capable of
implementing the proposed project with the support of foreign and local consultants. As this is a large
project with several co-financiers, a significant supervision effort would be required particularly during
the first two years when procurement and disbursement practices and coordination systems with the co-
financiers would be established. It is expected that about 15 staff-weeks of effort each year for the first
two years and about 12 staff-weeks each year thereafter would be required for supervision by the Bank.
Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the
end of each quarter. These reports would form the basis for advancing funds to the Special Account and
would also be used for project management purposes for tracking project progress, procurement and
disbursement. The following areas would be covered by the PMR: (a) Financial Report - project sources
and uses of funds, uses of funds by project activity, project balance sheet, project cash withdrawals,
Special Account statement, project cash forecast; (b) Project Progress Report - output monitoring reports
for contract management and unit of output by project activity; and (c) Procurement Management Report
- procurement process monitoring for goods, works and consultants' services, contract expenditure
reports for goods and works and consultants' services. A thorough presentation of the PMR requirements
has been provided to Rigas Siltums staff. The Bank has developed a set of PMR forms specifically
tailored to the proposed project, and the adjusted PMR forms have been provided to Rigas Siltums and
the co-financiers, which have agreed to the format for project reporting.
The Bank would carry out a mid-term review of the project not later than December 31, 2002. In addition
to the topics covered under the Project Management Reports, the mid-term review would include an in-
depth review of the economic viability of the project components, based on actual costs and benefits
achieved to-date, and of the overall institutional and financial viability of Rigas Siltums. Based on the
outcome of the mid-term review, measures would be taken to ensure the efficient completion of the
project. The timing of the mid-term review was agreed during negotiations.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the Bank with inputs from Rigas
Siltums not later than six months after completion of the project. The ICR would evaluate how well the
objectives of the project have been met, the overall performance of the project, the performance of Rigas
Siltums and lessons learned. During negotiations, agreement was obtained regarding the reporting and
monitoring requirements of the project.
13



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As stated previously, the project design considered the alternatives of (a) rehabilitating the DH system,
including undertaking additional investments (e.g., pipeline interconnection) to allow for a greater use of
heat produced in Latvenergo's CHP plant; (b) abandoning the DH service and introducing decentralized
gas-fired mini-boilers in individual buildings; and (c) a combination of the two. The alternative of
rehabilitating the DH system with the additional investments to allow for a greater use of heat produced in
Latvenergo's CHP plant was shown to be the least-cost long-run option for the following reasons: (a) an
increased share of heat produced from CHP plants would improve energy efficiency, reduce the bulk heat
price and improve the affordability of the DH service to better ensure its long-run competitiveness with
decentralized heating options; (b) retail gas prices for small consumers, which are today cross-subsidized
by large consumers, would be expected to increase in the future to about two times today's gas price for
large consumers when the costs of gas distribution would be properly recovered in the tariffs, and this
would further improve the competitiveness of DH as compared to the option of gas-fired mini-boilers in
buildings; and (c) increased use of the C-P plant for heat production would allow for increased domestic
electricity production at a lower cost, thereby reducing Latvia's need for electricity imports.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
SX to i'582           Pi'ec                            Laes Supervision (Form, 590)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Heat production capacity and         Ukraine Kiev District            S                  S
efficiency of heat supply in Kiev,   Heating Improvement
Ukraine                              Project (FY98)
Efficiency of heat supply in Jelgava,    Latvia Jelgava District      S                  S
Latvia                               Heating Rehabilitation
Proect
Efficiency of heat supply in Estonian    Estonia District Heating     S                  S
district heating systems             Rehabilitation Project
Other development aeencies
Efficiency of power supply in Latvian   EBRD Hydropower
hydropower plants                    Rehabilitation Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Sat:isfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed loan represents the second Bank investment loan to Latvia for the DH sector, the first one
being the Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project (effective 1995). In addition to Latvia, the Bank
has implemented district heating rehabilitation projects in Poland, China and Estonia, all on-going, and in
Bosnia, completed. This project would draw more heavily on the experience of Jelgava District Heating
Rehabilitation Project and Estonia District Heating Rehabilitation Project. Both of these projects are
nearly complete, and data is availablle on the costs and performance of different kinds of rehabilitation
concepts. Both projects demonstrate that the rehabilitation concepts similar to those proposed in this
project are cost effective.
14



Some of the lessons learned to-date include: (a) strong project ownership and advance preparation of
project components is necessary for timely implementation; (b) decentralized project management
arrangements work far better than centralized arrangements; (c) the relationship between prices and
incomes change rapidly in countries in transition and the heating service, which now appears expensive,
should become easier to afford in a relatively short period of time; (d) there is the possibility to redress
the financial difficulties of DH companies during project preparation through tariff increases and
settlements of arrears by major debtors, including households; and (e) strong support from municipalities
is needed to resolve collections and payment issues.  These lessons were taken into account, as
appropriate, during the preparation of the proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The preparation process of the project has generated a keen interest by a large number of energy sector
and Government agencies and stakeholders. This process has initiated significant discussion on the key
issues and has helped the concerned parties to begin to find solutions. A clear consensus has emerged
that it is in Latvia's best interest to keep co-generated district heating and power alive in Riga as the least-
cost long-run option for heat and power supply.
Borrower commitment and ownership have further been demonstrated by the following:
(a)    Official request from the Ministry of Finance to the World Bank and the Swedish Government's
Baltic Sea Fund (Spring 1997) to assist Latvia to start preparation of a district heating project in Riga;
(b)    Establishment of a Steering Committee for the Riga DH project, consisting of all involved parties
including: Rigas Siltums, Riga Municipality, Latvenergo, Latvian Privatization Agency, Ministry of
Economy, Energy Regulatory Board and the Swedish Government's Aid Agency, Sida.;
(c)    Public Relations campaign about the project design prepared by Rigas Siltums and carried out
during January 1999, geared towards raising the awareness of a number of concerned parties and the
general public;
(d)    Inclusion of the project in the Public Investment Program of the Government for the Year 2000;
(e)    Pricing reforms already being implemented for Latvenergo's bulk heat tariff from TEC 2 to allow
for a more equitable sharing of the benefits from co-generation to heat. The bulk heat tariff has been
retained at the same level for the last three years, and Latvenergo is committed to sharing a larger part of
the co-generation benefits to heat production when larger quantities of heat would be sold as a result of
the project investments, thereby helping to maintain the competitiveness of district heating supply;
(f)    Latvijas Gaze has expressed its intention to work to support DH through more appropriate gas
pricing policies reflecting the actual costs of gas supply to households (instead of today's cross-
subsidized policies that favor building boilers over centralized sources).  There is now  also an
understanding that only because of the existence of DH in Riga can Latvijas Gaze sell gas for electricity
generation in Latvia. This also allows for a better bargaining position with Gazprom; and
(g)    Rigas Siltums is considering introducing a two-tier tariff structure, with a capacity (fixed) and an
energy (variable) charge. Consulting services for the evaluating the suitability of such a tariff would be
supported under the proposed project.
15



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement is regarded as important in supporting the development of Latvia's priority
energy sector investment programs under the present conditions of severe resource constraints and in
supporting the development of institutions involved in the delivery of energy services. The Bank is well
positioned to respond to the opportunity and challenges posed in Latvia today by: (a) applying its global
experience in the heating sector to help Latvia develop appropriate pricing policies, especially in the areas
of bulk heat pricing from co-generators and gas pricing, and to establish a clear and independent
regulatory framework to help reduce the barriers to private sector investment; (b) assisting Latvia in
identifying investments that would allow for the optimization of combined-heat-and-power systems; (c)
assisting Latvia to determine the vallue of Latvenergo's heat production assets for eventual privatization
by providing realistic estimates of the future heat energy market in Riga; (d) providing capital to support
the much-needed heating sector investments until the sector is able to attract a sufficient volume of capital
from other sources; and (e) helping Latvia to mobilize co-financing from other international and domestic
financial institutions and donor organizations by taking the lead in helping Latvia to set the overall policy
framework and build the institutions in the sector.
16



E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Econornic (supported by Annex 4):
[XI Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 24.8 million and ERR= 16.1% with a 65.3% certainty; NPV=
US$ 15.7 million, and ERR= 13.0% with a 75% certainty
[X] Cost-Effectiveness Analysis: NPV of Costs =$ -30.1 million for the project, while $ -62.5 million
for the alternative with individual boilers
[X] Other: Distributive analyses: With a 75% certainty, 33% of the net benefits would go to the
poor, while 22.2% would go to the Government in the form of added fiscal revenue.
Economic Appraisal
The project would have significant economic benefits. First, the project would avoid an energy deficit,
providing benefits to consumers in the form of lower prices and higher reliability of DH supply relative to
the alternatives. Second, the project would also reduce operational costs and losses of the existing DH
system. Third, consumers would be able to regulate their heat consumption due to the reconstruction of
substations, leading to energy conservation and resource savings.
A least-cost analysis was undertaken to evaluate the costs and benefits of the proposed rehabilitation
option as compared with the option of decentralizing heat supply through the installation of individual gas
boilers. The analysis is based on the economic costs net of financial and fiscal transfers, such as taxes
and interest payments. Costs have been compared "with" and "without the project" for the same level of
heat demand. Investment, operation and maintenance costs, fuel and auxiliary electricity costs have been
included in the analysis, and as a benefit the supply cost savings from energy conservation have been
included. The least-cost analysis has been performed in constant 1999 US$. The least-cost analysis
shows that the project is nearly US$ 32 million less expensive than the alternative. The table below
presents the discounted cost components considered in the least-cost analysis.
Least-Cost Analysis: DH Project vs. Individual Boilers
US $ thousand of 1999
Alternatives                                 PVs @10%
Project Scenario                                30,091
Rehabilitation cost                             77,790
Operation & maintenance with the project        -2,675
Incremental fuel cost with the project          8,938
Incremental auxiliary electricity cost           409
Energy conservation savings                    -53,371
Individual Boilers                              62,505
Investment in individual boilers                32,004
Operation & maintenance with individual boilers  7,310
Fuel costs of individual boilers                23,191
An economic cost-benefit analysis was also undertaken and considers the cost and benefit flows net of
financial and fiscal transfers. All costs and benefits are valued at 1999 border prices and are incremental
in nature, valued as the difference between the system costs/benefits "with" and "without the project."
The costs and benefits are considered over a 20-year economic life of the investments. The main cost
components include investment costs, operation and maintenance costs and fuel costs. The main benefit
components include the increase in willingness to pay, loss savings, reduction in operation and
maintenance costs, energy conservation and reliability improvements. Further non-quantifiable benefits
would result from lower air pollution levels in areas where the boilers are located. These environmental
benefits would result from reduced emissions of SO2, NO,. CO2 and dust due to lower fuel consumption
17



(and for some plants, due to improved combustion control). The project is economically attractive with a
net present value (NPV) of US$ 24.8 million and an econornic rate of return (ERR) of 16.1% with a
65.3% certainty; and NPV of US$ 15.7 million and ERR of 13.0% with a 75% certainty.
Economic Cost Benefit Analysis
US $ thousand of 1999
PVs @10%
Economic Costs                           87,645
Investment                               77,790
Operation and maintenance                 917
System fuel costs                        8,938
Economic Benefits                       112,402
Willingness to pay                       36,429
Loss savings                             3,968
Heat conservation                        54,371
Reliability irnprovement                 14,043
Operation and maintenance savings        3,592
Net Economric Benefit                    24,758
ERR                                      16.1%
The table above presents the distribution of the economic costs and benefits of the project. Among the
costs, investment expenditures are the most significant, while among the benefits, the heat conservation
(made possible from customers regulaLtion of indoor temperatures) is the most important benefit.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
Projects in Latvia face a considerable degree of risk.  Part of the risk is associated with the
macroeconomic and political uncertainties facing all transition economies. Another part is specific to the
project and these uncertainties are considered in the risk analysis. Risk analysis covers a number of
possible uncertainties related to project delays, cost increases, lower avoided demand deficit, lower
efficiencies, losses and operation and maintenance savings with the project, higher and lower tariffs and
fuel prices, and lower reliability improvements. It estimates the likelihood that the project risks would
have an adverse effect on the economic indicators of the project. The risk analysis shows that the project
has a probability of 65.3% of achieving the estimated outcomes (NPV = $24.8 million and ERR =
16.1%). The probability of achieving an uneconomic rate of return below the 10% opportunity cost of
capital for Latvia is less than 8%.
A sensitivity analysis has also been undertaken to test the robustness of the ERR of the project to changes
in its key cost and benefit components, such as investment costs, fuel costs, willingness to pay, loss
reduction, energy savings due to the iinstallation of substations, and operation and maintenance savings,
all of which are subject to risk and uncertainty. The analysis shows that the proposed investments are
attractive and robust, as only with significant increases in costs or large decreases in benefits would the
ERR fall to levels below the opportunity cost of capital of about 10%. For example, more than a 30%
increase in investment costs or more than a 250% increase in natural gas prices would be required for the
ERR to fall below 10%. Also, willingness to pay benefits would need to decrease by more than 68% or
energy conservation benefits would need to decline by more than 45% before the ERR would fall below
10%. The project's economic indicators are not particularly sensitive to changes in operation and
maintenance costs, loss reduction and other savings, or reliability benefits. The results of the sensitivity
analysis are shown in the figure bellow. The point where all the cost and benefit curves intersect
corresponds to the ERR of 16. 1%. The basis and assumptions for the analysis are presented in Annex 4.
18



Project Sensitivity Curve
-       Investment
1000/a                                                  -in- System Costs
&>                                                        7% -* --  -  - >>; * - - * - * - -0 * -1}& ; - - if - - - - - - - - - Willingness to pay
s   50% - .       .                           ------------Loss reduction + other savings
~ 25% -......                         ----........................      Heat conservation
--o  Reliability Improvement
0% 
'o -25% - ---------
-50%   -  ----------<  ; ...  ........................ .
0
O -75% -......                 . ... I ...
-100%        I         I I    I
0%    5%    10%    15%    20%    25%    30%    35%
Economic Rates of Return
Distributive Analysis
A distributive analysis was undertaken to determnine how the cost and benefits would be allocated among
the different project stakeholders, specifically the poor and the Government. The poor (37% of the
population in the lowest two quintiles) will benefit from  three main sources:  (a) employment
opportunities during installation and operation of the project would benefit poor unskilled workers who
would receive a net increase in their incomes of at least 10%. given the prevailing unemployment
conditions; (b) additional opportunities for lower-income groups would result from the increase in
demand for goods and services by domestic suppliers and manufacturers of DH equipment; and (c) gains
to lower-income groups from an increase in consumer surplus, heat conservation and reliability
improvements. The latter benefit exists because poor households cannot compensate for a shortage in
heating services (as better-off users can) and therefore experience significant personal costs, such as
sickness, when heat energy shortages occur.
The Government also benefits from a variety of taxes. The analysis shows that if a cost recovery tariff
policy is maintained, the Government would benefit from the project through a variety of taxes, such as
the 28% social tax on labor expenditures in investment and operations and maintenance expenditures, the
9% paid by labor, VAT on project expenditures, and a 25% profit tax on Rigas Siltums' net income.
The distributive analysis shows that at least 49.5% of the net benefits would help the poor, with a 35.2%
certainty, and about 25.2% of the benefits would go to the Government, with a 62.2% certainty.
2. Financial:
Project Financial Analysis (supported by Annex 4):
[X] FNPV=US$ 5.5 million and FRR= 11.1% with a 58.2% certainty.
The project will generate significant financial benefits for Rigas Siltums from the efficiency savings on
existing DH facilities and the reduction in the bulk heat tariff for heat purchases from Latvenergo. The
financial analysis has been conducted in constant 1999 prices based on the net (after tax) cash flows
generated by the project during its 20-year life. The analysis shows that the financial rate of return (FRR)
would be attractive at 1 1.1%, which is above the 10% cost of capital for Latvia. This real FRR would be
equivalent to a nominal rate of return of 15.5%, which is deemed acceptable. With a 75% certainty, the
FNPV of the project is certain to cover costs, breaking even and yielding at least a FRR of 10.0%,
equivalent to a nominal rate of return of 14.4%. both of which are considered robust and satisfactory. The
investment project is judged to be financially robust, with a less than 25% probability of having a
negative FRR.
19



Financial Cost-Benefit Analysis
US $ thousand of 1999
PVs @10%
Financial Costs                        105,186
Investment                             95,331
Operation and Maintenance                917
System Fuel Costs                       8,938
Financial B3enefits                    110,691
Sales Revenue                          33,350
Reduction in Bulk Heat Purchase Price  12,801
Loss Savin!gs                          61,931
Unserved Energy                         2,610
Net Financial Benefit                   5,505
FRR                                    11.1%
Rigas Siltums' Financial Assessment (supported by Annex 5):
Past Financial Performance
Rigas Siltums was established and incorporated as a joint-stock company in May 1996 by consolidating
six enterprises previously involved in heat supply in Riga. The company is engaged in the production,
distribution and sale of heat energy to residential, public and industrial consumers. Since the creation of
the enterprise, a stable financial position has been maintained, with profits on operations each year
(financial year is October 1-September 30). Rigas Siltums' total revenues in 1998/99 were about US$ 111
million. Fuel, energy and salaries account for approximately 80% of Rigas Siltum's operating expenses.
The company has established a strong customer base, after having disconnected the non-paying customers
during 1997/98. The collection performance is excellent reaching close to 100% in 1998/99, resulting in
low levels of accounts receivable (less than 30 days of annual billings). As a result of strong revenue
collection, Riga Siltums is able to pay its suppliers and contractors within a reasonable time, including a
debt obligation to Latvenergo relateid to accounts receivables of consumers prior to the establishment of
Rigas Siltums. A key factor behind the solid performance at Riga Siltums is the strong management team
and the implementation of the SAP R/3 system. This system is enabling the management to make day-to-
day decisions based on up-to-date and reliable information regarding its operational and financial
position.
Heat Tariffs
Today, heat tariffs in Riga are quite high (on average, Ls 18.11/Gcal including VAT or about
US$31.22/Gcal). They are only slightly below the level of heat tariffs in Helsinki and cannot be raised
significantly without risk of losing D'H consumers. Latvenergo has not increased the bulk heat tariff from
TEC 2 this year, so the retail heat tariffs to be charged by Rigas Siltums for the next heating season will
remain at the same level as the last two heating seasons. One of the key objectives of the proposed
project is to ensure that heat tariffs remain competitive with alternative heating options and do not
increase significantly in the near term. This would be possible if TEC 2 can be utilized to a greater extent
as a result of the project investments. Latvenergo is committed to lowering the bulk heat tariff in the
future for larger volumes of bulk heat sales.
A new tariff methodology was introduced in May 1998. Key features of the newly introduced tariff
regime is that a uniform tariff is levied on residential, industrial and public sector consumers, and tariffs
20



are allowed to be set to cover total costs, including reserves for investments beyond the annual provision
for depreciation, if necessary. The tariff is calculated every year in advance of the next heating season
and has to be approved by the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB). According to the methodology, the tariff
could be approved for a 1-year or a 3-year period. Rigas Siltums has applied for approval of a retail heat
tariff of Ls 18.1 1/Gcal (including VAT) or Ls 15.93/Gcal (excluding VAT) for the upcoming 3-year
period. This tariff is the same as in the previous several years and is expected to enable Rigas Siltums to
remain competitive with other heating options.
Rigas Siltums is giving consideration to a two-tier tariff, with a capacity (fixed) charge and an energy
(variable) charge. The benefit of this tariff structure is that it would allow the company to charge
consumers for the cost of actual heat delivered rather than the cost of heat delivery estimated at the
beginning of the heating season. This would allow the company to recover its actual costs while
providing better signals to consumers leading to more efficient heat use and energy conservation. The
management of Rigas Siltums indicated that a two-tier tariff would require substantial awareness raising
to customers to ensure their full understanding of the proposed tariff approach. To this end, it was agreed
that support in the form of consultancy services would be included under the project to assist in the
evaluation of the applicability of two-tier heat tariffs with fixed and variable components, with a
particular emphasis on raising public awareness on the suitability of this tariff structure in the Latvian
environment. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that Rigas Siltums would undertake a study,
under terms of reference and by consultants satisfactory to the Bank, not later than June 30, 2001 to
evaluate the applicability of two-tier heat tariffs, with a particular emphasis on raising public awareness.
Future Financial Performance
Bulk Heat Tariff. The future bulk heat tariff to be negotiated with Latvenergo, which considers the
purchase of additional heat from TEC 2 made possible by the proposed project, would have a significant
impact on the future financial performance of Rigas Siltums. During appraisal, an analysis was
undertaken to determine the maximum bulk heat tariff under which Rigas Siltums can remain financially
viable, undertake the project and maintain competitive retail tariffs. The analysis showed that the average
bulk heat tariff from Latvenergo would have to be reduced in the year 2003/04 to Ls 8.29/Gcal
(Ls7.1/MWh) from about Ls 9.05/Gcal (Ls 7.8/MWh) today. Today's bulk heat purchases of 2,100,000
Gcal would, as a result of the project, grow to 3,200,000 Gcal.
A separate analysis, based on cost data provided by Latvenergo for its heat production plants and using
the proposed formula for calculating the bulk heat tariff, showed that the proposed maximum average
bulk heat tariff that Rigas Siltums could bear was likely to allow for full cost recovery of Latvenergo's
plants and provide some contribution to capital reserves for future investments.
Since a contract for the supply of bulk heat from Latvenergo's TEC-2 CHP and other plants to Rigas
Siltums' DH network is important for ensuring the viability of the river crossing pipeline and associated
investments but has only a limited impact on the viability of the other project components. a contract,
satisfactory to the Bank, on cooperation in efficient use and realization of heat energy generated by the
CHP plants under the Project would be a condition for disbursement against the river crossing pipeline
and associated investments. The contract would include a formula and other conditions which would
determine bulk heat tariffs that would ensure the financial viability of these project components. Draft
contract conditions are currently being elaborated. The key element is the price formula, which is
expected to link the price of bulk heat to factors such as quantity of heat sold, inflation, imported
electricity price, fuel prices, etc. The general principles that would be applied for future cooperation
between Rigas Siltums and Latvenergo would be included in a Memorandum of Understanding to be
entered into by Rigas Siltums and Latvenergo as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
Substation Arrangements. Another factor that will have a significant impact on the future financial
performance of Rigas Siltums concerns the ownership and cost recovery arrangements for the substation
21



investments, which account for about 45% of total project cost. In Riga, DH substations are owned by the
building owners, and it is the building owner's responsibility to maintain and replace the substation when
the need arises. At present, about 70% of buildings in Riga are owned by Riga City, which are expected
to be privatized in the near future, and the remaining 30% are owned by cooperatives and others. Under
the proposed project, new substations with modem control equipment are necessary to allow for increased
heat production from the TEC 2 CHP plant and lower cost of heat utilized in the DH system.
In order to take advantage of the lower investment costs due to economy of scale in procurement and
installation and lower financing cost than otherwise would be available to consumers, it is proposed that
Rigas Siltums would borrow for the substation investments and be responsible for the replacement of
substations, with the title remaining with Rigas Siltums for each substation until the building owner has
repaid the investment cost. Repayment schemes of these substation investments from the owners of
buildings would be in the form of one payment by the building owner in full or repayment to Rigas
Siltums over 10 years in a separate charge under a hire-purchase agreement with an interest rate of 9.5%.
The proposed interest rate of 9.5% would provide Rigas Siltums a small spread over its borrowing rate to
cover business risk. It is estimated that 90-95% of building owners would prefer to pay the substation
costs over time. Special attention may have to be given to some smaller size buildings where the
repayment capacity would be consiclered low.
Given the importance of the substations to ensure the viability of the Project, Riga City Council approved
in December 1999 a Decree requiring the installation, before the year 2005, of modern substations in
buildings connected to the district heating system. Regulations for the installation and modernization of
substations, defining repayment terrns, were also approved during December 1999.
Financial Forecast
Projections of financial performance of Rigas Siltums over the period beginning October 1, 1999 through
September 30, 2005 are summarized in Annex 5 and elaborated in the Project Implementation Plan. The
projections have been prepared to determine (a) the average retail heat tariffs that would be required to
generate sufficient cash for the debt: servicing and counterpart funding requirements of the project while,
at the same time, allowing DH to remain competitive with other alternative heating options, and (b) the
conditions under which the company would remain financially viable. The projections have been
prepared on a conservative basis assuming that:
(a)    heat demand would gradually decrease as a result of increased energy efficiency in consumer
premises;
(b)    the two banks of the Daugava River would be interconnected in 2003/04, at which point 85% of
the heat required for these two areas would be supplied from the CHP plants;
(c)    natural gas would comprise about 95% of fuel required for Rigas Siltums' own heat production
with the balance provided by woodchips, mazut, coal and light fuel oil;
(d)    gas, mazut, light oil and coal prices would follow world market prices, and prices of woodchips
would increase with domestic inflation;
(e)    existing assets would depreciate by 9% per year, in line with Rigas Siltums' current depreciation
policy, while depreciation of new assets under the project would be based on a 20-year lifetime (i.e 5%
depreciation per year on average);
(f)    accounts receivable would remain at not more than 45 days of annual heat sales; and
(g)    external financing (including the World Bank, Swedish and commercial bank loans) would
finance about 70% of net project costs (before taxes). The World Bank and Swedish loans would be
22



made to Rigas Siltums with a 17-year maturity and the commercial banks' loans with a 10-year maturity,
all including a 5-year grace period on repayment of principal, and an interest rate, including guarantee
fee, of about 7.5% for the World Bank and commercial banks' loans and 8.5% for the Swedish loan. Riga
City would contribute about 4% or Ls 3 million (US$ 5.2 million) for substations in public buildings.
The remaining 26% of net project costs and taxes would be the responsibility of Rigas Siltums.
With the lower bulk heat tariffs for the increased heat purchased from Latvenergo's CHP plants and
operating cost decreases which would be possible as a result of the project investments, the financial
projections show that the average retail tariff would remain stable over the next 5 years, after which time
the required tariff increases would be less than the rate of domestic inflation. DH retail tariffs would
remain competitive with alternative heating options and Rigas Siltums would remain financially viable.
During negotiations, agreement was obtained that Rigas Siltums would request the Energy Regulatory
Board to adjust retail heat tariffs on a regular basis to allow Rigas Siltums to cover the cost of heat
production, distribution, operations and maintenance, depreciation, interest and a profit margin, while
remaining competitive with other heating altematives. Agreement was also obtained that the ERB would
do so. To properly monitor financial performance and the requirement for tariff adjustments, agreement
was also obtained that Rigas Siltums prepare a report annually on or about end-June, beginning in FY
2001 for each year during project implementation containing financial projections for the upcorning year
to be reviewed by the Bank. The first financial report would be prepared by September 2000 but
subsequent reports would be prepared by June 30 of each year thereafter.
The forecast shows that, with the bulk heat tariff decrease, the retail heat tariffs discussed above and the
efficiency gains under the Project, Rigas Siltums would be able to contribute the required US$ 50.5
million out of its own funds to the cost of the project and remain financially viable. As a condition for
negotiations, Rigas Siltums confirmed that its counterpart contribution to the project would be provided
out of internally generated funds. The forecasts show that Rigas Siltums would be able to maintain: (a)
adequate working capital (current ratio above 1.3) and (b) adequate debt service coverage (at or above the
minimum advisable 1.3). In order to ensure timely availability of counterpart funds and satisfactory
financial performance, during negotiations, agreement was obtained that Rigas Siltums (a) maintain a
current ratio of at least 1.3. during the project period and (b) maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at
least 1.3 during the project period.
Rigas Siltums' current excellent collection ratio of nearly 100% and accounts receivables position of less
than 30 days is partly due to the fact that Riga Municipality owns nearly 70% of buildings in Riga City
and ensures the full payment of heat bills for buildings under its ownership. When municipal buildings
are privatized in the near future, there is a risk that payment performance may deteriorate. Therefore, a
sensitivity analysis was conducted assuming accounts receivables increase to 60 days. The analysis
showed that, even if accounts receivables were to increase to 60 days, Rigas Siltums would still be able to
contribute to the counterpart funding requirements and maintain satisfactory financial performance. In
anticipation of the increased risk to bill collection with building privatization, Rigas Siltums has hired
additional accountants to enforce and monitor revenue collection performance. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained that Rigas Siltums maintains its overall accounts receivable at not more than 45
days.
Fiscal impact:
The project would result in significant fiscal benefits for both the central government and Rigas Siltums.
The central government is expected to benefit from the additional tax revenues generated by the project
from import duties. VAT on project expenditures, 28% social tax on labor expenditures, 9% labor tax, and
25% corporate income tax on Rigas Siltums' net profit. Rigas Siltums would benefit from the reduction
in operating costs resulting from the efficiency improvements and lower bulk heat tariff for heat
purchased from Latvenergo's CHP plants.
23



3. Technical:
The technical solutions selected for rehabilitation of the DH networks, pumping station and consumer
substations represent technology that has been customarily and successfully used for the purpose in Latvia
and in East European and other Fonner Soviet Union (FSU) countries. The designs would conform with
Latvia's health and technical standards.
The project costs were estimated by Rigas Siltums, its consultants, the World Bank and Sida, based on
similar works recently implemented in Latvia and recent quotations for equipment. The project costs
include the costs of design and work-site management, which have been estimated to amount to
approximately 3% of the investment costs. Physical contingencies are estimated at 2.5% for substation
investments and 5% for other investments, which is considered reasonable given that: (a) the number and
capacities of substations, the largest cost component, are known accurately and detailed designs have
been completed, and (b) conceptual designs have been completed for the rest of the investments. Price
contingencies for local costs are based on expected price increases (CPI) of 3.8% in 2000, 4.3% in 2001,
3.9% in 2002 and 2003 and 4.0% each year thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on
an expected price increase of 2.5% per year during the project period. The corresponding exchange rates
that have been used in the preparation of the cost estimate are 0.588 Ls/US$ in 2000, 0.598 Ls/US$ in
2001, 0.606 Ls/US$ in 2002, 0.615 Ls/US$ in 2003, 0.624 Ls/US$ in 2004 and 0.632 Ls/US$ in 2005.
4. Institutional:
Institutional Structure for DH in Riga
The Riga DH system is owned and operated by two companies, Latvenergo and Rigas Siltums, but it is
unclear as to whether this is the best arrangement for operation of the system in an efficient manner. In
addition, the Government of Latvia is currently considering strategies for the privatization of Latvenergo
and Rigas Siltums. Very little analysis has been undertaken up-to-now on how the privatization of Rigas
Siltums should be undertaken (i.e., together with Latvenergo's CHP plants or alone). No strategic
investors have so far expressed any interest for the district heating networks alone, as the expected return
on district heating networks would not be adequate. Therefore, a study would be included under the
project, which would look into the optimum institutional set-up for district heating in Riga and the
ownership configuration of Rigas Siltums and develop a concensus among the various interested parties
and stakeholders. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that Rigas Siltums would undertake a
study, under terms of reference and by consultants satisfactory to the Bank, not later than December 31,
2001 to evaluate the optimum institutional set-up and ownership options for DH in Riga and to develop
an action plan for the selected institutional set-up and ownership option of Rigas Siltums.
Executing Agency and Project Management
The project would be implemented by Rigas Siltums which has already appointed a qualified Project
Manager and a qualified Technical Manager. The Project Management Organization has been
strengthened to also include qualified personnel from Rigas Siltums' Accounting and Economics
Departments. In addition, international consultants would work with Rigas Siltums' management team
during implementation to assist primarily with procurement and project management related matters.
24



5. Social:
During project preparation, a social assessment was carried out in Riga to obtain feedback from
households on a series of issues related to the provision of heat and hot water. First, the assessment was
based on qualitative research using structured in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with
residential district heat customers as well as consultations with staff from Riga Siltums, City
representatives, housing maintenance organizations, municipal social assistance offices and civil society
stakeholders. Second, the assessment was based on quantitative research by means of a questionnaire-
based household survey administered to 500 randomly-selected residential district heating and hot water
customers. In addition, a supplementary survey was carried out administered to 120 randomly-selected
beneficiaries of Riga City's allowance program for housing and utility services providing support to low-
income households.
The issues addressed in detail in the assessment are: (i) quality and reliability of the provision of heat and
hot water, (ii) level of satisfaction and hardships due to insufficient provision of heat and hot water, (iii)
patterns of supplementary heating and other coping strategies, (iv) physical conditions of heat and hot
water installations, (v) metering and conservation of heat and hot water, (vi) household budgets and
expenditures for heat and hot water by different income groups, (vii) collections, cost recovery and
indebtedness, (viii) poverty of residential customers based on detailed data regarding household incomes
and expenditures, (ix) affordability, willingness to pay, price-elasticity of demand, and (x) effectiveness
of the social assistance in place.
The assessment provided inputs for project design and justification. Specifically, the assessment clarified
what level of heating comfort (degrees Celsius of indoor temperature) residential customers would like to
have in winter and what they are willing to pay for the desired level of comfort. Similarly, the assessment
analyzed what level of hot water comfort (in terms of consumption levels and quality of service
provision) residential customers would like to have and what they would be willing to pay for the desired
level of comfort. In addition, the assessment provided inputs into the economic analysis of the project as
well as insights into financial, fiscal and institutional issues related to cost recovery from residential
customers. Finally, the assessment is suggesting measures to improve the effectiveness of the allowance
program to support low-income households. A brief summary of key findings of the social assessment is
provided below. The detailed results of the social assessment are provided in Annex 9.
District Heating. Residential customers are relatively satisfied with the quality of district heating
provided by Riga Siltums, and complaints are moderate. While reporting a temperature of 18.3 degrees,
on average, in their flats households consider 20.05 degrees as ideal room temperature.  Service
interruptions account for only about 1% of heating time citywide. For supplementary heating, residential
customers primarily use electric heaters, however, household expenditures for supplementary heating are
rather low. Heat losses due to opening windows are small. Households conserve heat primarily by
applying weatherstripping to windows and doors. Many households would like to have heat regulators
and heat meters both at the building level and in their flats. They believe this would reduce heat
consumption and heat bills. The overwhelming majority of respondents is not willing to pay more if the
room temperature in their flats would be increased. Elasticity of household demand in response to price
increases is relatively low. 36% of the respondents would like to reduce the average room temperature if
this reduction would also lead to a lower heating bill. Riga City, in close coordination with Riga Siltums,
should provide information and education to Riga's households regarding advantages and disadvantages
of different heating options for different categories of residential customers.
Hot Water. Residential customers are relatively satisfied with the quality of hot water services provided
by Riga Siltums, and complaints are moderate. Willingness to pay more for improved hot water services
is scarce. Hot water consumption drops dramatically after the installation of hot water meters; however,
many household cannot afford to buy meters. Elasticity of household demand in response to price
increases is moderate. 18% of households don't have hot water services in connection with district
heating. The majority of them are not interested in obtaining a connection to the hot water network.
25



Many of these households mistakenly believe that heating water with electric equipment is cheaper than
hot water services provided in connection with district heating. Riga City, in close coordination with
Riga Siltums, should provide information and education to Riga's households regarding advantages and
disadvantages of different hot water options for different categories of residential customers.
Pavine for housing and communal services. Residential customers mostly pay their heating and hot
water bills in offices of housing maintenance organizations. A large majority of households indicates that
the offices where they pay have inconvenient working hours. 28% of households owe for heating, 18.5%
owe for hot water. Households owing for heat and hot water are not predominantely poor. The majority
of debtor households owes relatively small amounts of money for heat and hot water. However, these
debts account only for small shares of total household debts for both heat or hot water. The debts of a
relatively small number of heavily indebted households account for large shares of total household debts
for heat and hot water. Also, these debtors are not predominantely poor. A strategy of enforcing cost
recovery from households owing for heat and hot water should, in the first instance, target this small
number of heavily indebted househLolds.
Allowance vroeram  for housinlg- and utility services to low-income households.  Riga City's
aDlowance program for housing and utility services is the most important social assistance program for
low-income households at the local level. The effectiveness of this program has to be strengthened.
Several flaws have been identified.. First the coverage of the program deficient. Second, there is leakage
of resources to non-eligible households. Third, the application process should be simplified and made
more customer-friendly. Fourth, operational and administrative practices of the allowance program
should be improved. In particular, program rules and regulations should be reviewed and adjusted and
applied more uniformly across city districts as well as under conditions of reasonably controlled
flexibility of interpretation. Transformation of the allowance program into a general cash-based poverty
benefit scheme may be considered. Also, further computerization is needed as well as computerized
communications among allowance offices. In addition, communications with other city agencies and
central government departments sihould be computerized. Fifth, staffing should be increased and staff
training is needed. Complementary to the proposed project, Riga Municipality has requested assistance to
upgrade the effectiveness of the allowance program.
Household budeets and charges for housine and utilities. Household expenditure for district heating
amounts, on average, to 32.8% of all household expenditures for housing and utility services, household
expenditure for hot water amounts to 8% of all expenditures for housing and communal services.
Expenditure for district heating is the largest of all expenditure items for housing and communal services.
On average, all expenditures for housing and utilities as a share of total household expenditures amount to
22.12%. Households in lower expenditure quintiles spend more for housing and communal services than
households in higher quintiles. On average, food expenditures as a share of total household expenditures
amnount to 38.45%. In absolute terms, lower-income households spend much less for food than higher-
income households. In relative tenns, higher-income households spend less of their total expenditures for
food than lower-income householdls. On average, expenditures for housing and communal services as a
share of non-food expenditures amount to 35.2%. Mean expenditures for housing and utilities as a
percentage of mean expenditures for non-food goods and services are higher for households in lower
expenditure quintiles than for households in higher quintiles. Households in the bottom quintiles use
most of their expenditures for food, housing, and utility services. Households in the top quintiles are able
to use a large share of their expenditures for goods and services that are neither food items nor charges for
housing and utilities.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      I I  A  [XI  B 1 ]  C
Preparation of the proposed project has included environmental studies consistent with the requirements
of the Latvian environmental regullations, and the provisions of the World Bank's Operational Directive
on Environmental Policies. In accordance with these procedures, an environmental review, consistent
26



with the requirements for a category "B" project for the district heating rehabilitation component of the
project has been performed. The final version was completed on April 26, 2000.
The project would have significant positive environmental impacts in Latvia. The decreased amount of
fuels required for heat and electricity production due to increased co-generation, elimination of oil and
coal-fired boilers and the reduction of gas usage in the present system due to the better efficiency would
have beneficial air quality impacts through reduced emissions as shown below. In addition, water losses
in heat distribution and consumption would be reduced.
Environmental                            Tons
Emissions
CO2      SO2    NOx    dust   HC    CO
Without Project    2,070,000  11,600   6,050    767      17    671
With project        1,520,000   5,370    4,960   109    13    316
Improvement         550,000   6,230    1,090    658      4    355
The environmental review showed that potential harmful environmental impacts might result from the
removal of asbestos from old thermal insulation in DH equipment. If asbestos is found when dismantling
old thermal insulation, all works on such insulation should be performed according to Latvian and
European work safety standards by specialized companies utilizing specialized equipment. Asbestos
should be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable way according to regulations. Further, all new
insulation materials that are used in the proposed project should have a zero ozone depletion factor (i.e.,
no CFC would be accepted).
7. Participatory approach:
,Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
The primary beneficiaries of the project are residential and public consumers, including a large number of
low-income users, including pensioners.  They are participating in the project design through
consultations based on (a): in-depth interviews and focus groups; and (b) a household survey.
Other key stakeholders
Key stakeholders of the project are the Riga City Government and the City Council, Rigas Siltums and
local private firms supplying goods and services related to the provision of heat. These stakeholders have
participated in the project through consultations based on in-depth interviews and focus group
discussions.
In addition, the Steering Committee comprising all the key concerned parties, including Rigas Siltums,
Riga City Council, Latvenergo, Latvian Privatization Agency, Ministry of Economy, Energy Regulatory
Board and the Swedish Government's Aid Agency, Sida, have had regular meetings to guide the
preparation of the project. Further local groups and NGOs have been consulted during the public
awareness campaigns and will be further consulted in a structured manner during the social assessment
survey.
Other key stakeholders are the sellers of bulk heat and fuels to the DH enterprises. In Riga, Latvijas Gaze
and Latvenergo are participating in the Steering Committee.
27



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project would contribute to ensuring the sustainability of Riga's heating and hot water services
through: (a) the introduction of least-cost technologies for improving heat supply and optimization of the
system service areas and network configurations; (b) facilitating the recovery of the costs of services
through the lowering of supply costs leading to more affordable tariffs; (c) promoting energy conservation
through the introduction of regulation of indoor temperatures by the consumers at the building level; and
(d) supporting commercial principles for the operation and financial management of Rigas Siltums.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                       Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Timely heat tariff adjustments to reflect changes in         Given the commitment by the
fuel and input costs may not be sustained due to    M        Energy Regulatory Board and
political or other reasons                                   Rigas Siltums to adjust heat
tariffs to cost recovery levels
over the past several years, the
risk of tariff adjustments not
being implemented is expected
to be small. Agreement on the
regular adjustment of tariffs
would be a loan condition
Political and budgetary commitment to funding                The requirements for improving
Riga City's social assistance program may not be    M        the functioning of the social
sustained                                                    assistance program  has been
evaluated during appraisal and
support would be provided
under the project as necessary
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds for the project investments may            Adequate plan for provision of
not be available in a timely manner                 M        counterpart  funds   was   a
condition for negotiations
Untested implementation capacity of the project              Detailed      implementation
agencies in carrying out an investmnent program of           arrangements    were   fully
this order of magnitude, which rnay result in a              identified and agreed in advance
longer implementation period                        M        with staffing arrangements in
place  as  a  condition  for
negotiations; the project agency
to be supported by foreign and
local consultants with relevant
experience in heating projects
and institutional development
Overall Risk Rating                   M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
28



The ability of Latvenergo to sell heat from its CHP plants at the bulk heat tariff assumed in the financial
and economic analyses depends on the electricity price that these CHP plants can obtain when electricity
is sold to the power grid. Bulk heat tariffs are influenced by the bulk price of electricity, since heat and
electricity are joint products in the Riga CHP plants. Thus, a low electricity price pushes heat tariffs up,
to allow cost recovery for the CHP plants and vice versa.
Discussions are underway with the other Baltic countries to form a Common Baltic Electricity Market,
which would aim to join and liberalize their electricity markets in line with European Council Directive
96t92/EC. In addition, discussions have also been ongoing to connect the Baltic power system to the
Western European system to form the Baltic Ring Electricity Market by connecting the Baltic electricity
system to Finland and/or Poland and separating it from the frequency of the Russian electricity system.
The uncertainty related to the possible future development of the Common Baltic Electricity Market
and/or the Baltic Ring Electricity Market is not judged to pose any substantial risks for the future
continued ability of the Riga CHP plants to sell heat at a bulk tariff that would allow the DH service in
Riga to remain competitive with other heating options, as it is likely that CUP generation will continue to
be attractive under all scenarios.
Three scenarios have been considered: (a) status quo where no Common Baltic Electricity Market or
Baltic Ring Electricity Market would be established; (b) the Common Baltic Electricity Market would be
established; and (c) the Common Baltic Electricity Market would be expanded into the Baltic Ring
Electricity Market with Western Europe.
The first scenario refers to the continuation of the current situation and where no Common Baltic
Electricity Market would be established during the timeframe of the project. In this scenario, the
electricity supply from Riga' s CHP generation would broadly determine the wholesale electricity price in
the Latvian grid, as it would be unlikely that, in the long run, import electricity would be available at a
lower price than Riga' s CUP generation cost. In the analysis for this project, it has been assumed that the
probable long-term average wholesale electricity price would remain at the present value of US$26/MWh.
At this tariff, Latvenergo would be able to reduce the bulk heat tariff from today's level because of the
greater utilization of the existing capacity of Riga's CHP plants due to the project investments. In 1999,
Latvenergo has been able to import electricity at an average price of US$ 22/MWh, which is currently
lower than the long-term cost but higher than the short-run marginal cost of about US $12/MWh of Riga's
CHP plants. However, the current low electricity import price is unlikely to be sustainable over the
medium to long run. Therefore, in this scenario there is no serious risk to project's viability.
The second scenario assumes that the Baltic countries would establish a competitive Common Baltic
Electricity Market. In this case, the price-setter in the market would become Lithuania's Ignalina nuclear
power plant, which is the second lowest cost plant (US$19-20/MWh) after hydropower plants in the
Baltic region. Despite the fact that Ignalina's capacity is sufficiently large to supply electricity to Latvia
at a lower cost than the Riga CHP plants, as long as Ignalina continues to operate, the viability of the
proposed project is not judged to be significantly at risk. The reasons for the low risk to the project
include the following: (a) since Ignalina has to be connected to the Russian electricity system for stability
and reserve reasons, a substantial share of Ignalina's export capacity is directed towards Belarus which
would limit the amount of export capacity available for Latvia; and (b) as closure of Ignalina is part of
Lithuania's EU accession process, the Lithuania Parliament has decided that one of Ignalina's two units
will be shut down in early 2005, right after the planned expansion of Riga CHP's utilization, leaving no
significant export capacity and the second unit would be expected to be closed within four years
thereafter. When Ignalina is closed altogether, then wholesale electricity prices would be driven by the
cost of CHP generation, which would then be the next lowest after hydropower in the Baltic region,
which would ensure the viability of the project.
The third scenario concerns the Common Baltic Electricity Market interconnected to Poland and/or
Finland forming the Baltic Ring with Western Europe. Under this scenario, the excess coal-fired
generating capacity in Germany, Poland and Denmark would compete in the Baltic Ring Electricity
29



Market, driving electricity prices in the market towards the short-term marginal costs of these old and
largely depreciated plants, which are currently about US$ 20-25/MWh. Even at these prices, this scenario
is not judged to be a serious risk to ithe viability of the proposed project because: (a) establishing a Baltic
Ring would require costly investments, including, inter alia, construction of an interconnector to Poland
and/or Finland and isolation of the Baltic network by direct current links from the frequency of the
Russian electricity system, raising the cost of transmission services so that electricity would not be able to
compete with the electricity from Riga's CHP plants; and (b) the European Union is expected to comply
with the Kyoto Protocol requiring a1 reduction of CO2 emissions which would likely lead to introduction
of environmental taxes on coal-fired generation, thereby significantly raising the cost of electricity from
these plants.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversial aspects have been identified.
30



G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(a)    Submission of satisfactory evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the loans
from the co-financiers have been fulfilled;
(b)    A guarantee contract has been entered into between Latvia and Rigas Siltums for the World Bank
loan provided to Rigas Siltums;
(c)    A Memorandum of Understanding between Rigas Siltums and Latvenergo on cooperation in
efficient use and realization of the heat energy generated by CHP plants under the Project has been
entered into.
2. Agreements Reached during Negotiations:
Agreements reached during negotiations include:
(a)    Lending and other arrangements for the World Bank Loan;
(b)    Rigas Siltums to maintain until project completion a PMO with functions and responsibilities
agreed with the Bank and ensure that the PMO at all times (i) is headed by an experienced Project
Manager, (ii) has adequate staff, and (iii) is assisted by consultants, as needed, all with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)    Arrangements for disbursement and for establishing and operating the Special Account;
(d)    Accounting and auditing requirements of the project;
(e)    The timing of the mid-term review and reporting and monitoring requirements of the project;
(f)    Rigas Siltums to undertake a study, under terms of reference and by consultants satisfactory to the
Bank, not later than June 30, 2001 to evaluate the applicability of two-tier heat tariffs, with a particular
emphasis on raising public awareness;
(g)    Rigas Siltums to request the Enregy Regulatory Board to adjust heat tariffs on a regular basis to
allow Rigas Siltums to cover the costs of heat production, distribution, operations and maintenance,
depreciation, interest and a profit margin, while remaining competitive with other heating alternatives;
(h)    The Energy Regulatory Board to adjust heat tariffs on a regular basis to allow Rigas Siltums to
cover the costs of heat production, distribution, operations and maintenance, depreciation, interest and a
profit margin under efficient operations;
(i)    Rigas Siltums to prepare a report annually on or about end-June, beginning in FY 2001, for each
year during project implementation containing financial projections for the upcoming year to be reviewed
by the Bank;
(j)    Rigas Siltums to maintain (i) a current ratio of at least 1.3 during the project; and (b) a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period;
(k)    Rigas Siltums to maintain its overall accounts receivables at not more than 45 days; and
(I)    Rigas Siltums to undertake a study, under terms of reference and by consultants satisfactory to the
31



Bank, not later than December 31, 2001 to evaluate the optimum institutional set-up and ownership
options for DH in Riga and to develop an action plan for the selected institutional set-up and ownership
option of Rigas Siltums.
3. Condition of Disbursement
A condition of disbursement would be that no withdrawals shall be made for the river-crossing pipeline,
pumping station and other necessary network until Rigas Siltums and Latvenergo have concluded a
contract, satisfactory to the Bank, on cooperation in efficient use and realization of the heat energy
generated by the CHP plants under the Project.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ X I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1 I 1. b) Not applicable.
[X ]2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 I  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leadfr: Ms. Carolyn Gochenour
Sector Nlanager: Mr. Henk Busz
Country Director: Mr.  Basi  , Kavalaky
32



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:           Sector Indicators:            Sector /Country Reports:    (froma Goal to Bank
To help Latvia to address       *   Reduction of energy       *   Energy import statistics    Mission)
municipal, environmental and       wastage in heating        *   Fuel consumption           * Reduction of energy
public utility issues and          systems                       statistics of heating          wastage and increase
contribute to enhancing        *   Development of                enterprises                    in domestic power
capacity in these areas            commercial companies   *   Data from Enterprise              production resulting in
*   To assist in adoption of sound     for heating services          Register                       reduced energy
energy pricing policies and    *   Attraction of donor and   *   Investment statistics in       imports will contribute
commercial utility practices       private sector financing      heating sector                 to economic growth
*   To pave the way for the            for investments in        *   Private sector                 and thus facilitate
eventual privatization of          heating systems               shareholdings in heating       poverty alleviation in
heating utilities and for      *   Reduction of                  enterprises                    Latvia
attraction of private capital      environmental pollution   *   Emission statistics
Project Development Objective:  Outcome / Impact                 Project Reports:               (froin Objective to Goal)
*   To optimize DH system          Indicators:                   *   Semi-annual progress       * The current co-
operational performance,       o   Improved quality and          reports and evaluation         generation plants in
increase the efficiency of heat    affordability of heating      reports at mid-term and        Riga continue to sell
supply and distribution,           and hot water services        project completion             bulk heat at affordable
improve reliability of service     in Riga                   *   Semi-annual progress           prices
delivery, enhance energy       *   Improved commercial           reports and evaluation     * Distortions in gas
conservation, and improve          performance of Ri gas         reports at mid-term and        pricing policies and
environmental conditions in        Siltums company               project completion.            pricing of heat from
the Riga DH systems                                                                             ClIP plants are
*   To promote sound cost                                                                           removed
recovery policies and                                                                       * Heat tariffs continue to
practices to allow for the                                                                      be regulated at cost
competitive development of                                                                      recovery levels
Rigas Siltums
Output from each component:    Output Indicators:                Project Reports:               (from Outputs to
*   Improved and more              a   Share of heat utilized    *   Semi-annual progress       Objective)
affordable beating and hot         from TEC 2 plant              reports and evaluation     * Beneficiaries are
water services in Riga         *   Heat and make-up              reports at mid-term and        willing to pay their
*   Improved commercial                water losses in the DH        project completion             bills in a timely
performance of Rigas Siltums       system                    *   Semi-annual progress           manner for improved
*   Bulk and retail heat          reports and evaluation         heating and hot water
tariffs                      reports at mid-term and         supply quality
*   Financial performance         project completion.        * Riga Municipality
indicators of Rigas                                          ensures adequate
Siltums (e.g., debt                                         funding of the social
service coverage ratio,                                      assistance program for
current ratio, accounts                                      vulnerable groups
receivables,                                            * Energy Regulatory
profitability)                                              Board approves cost
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ __re c o v errec o v ry rt riff
33



Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports:             (from Components to
components: (see Annex 2 for     component, net of taxes)                                Outputs)
project description)
Progress reports and        Counterpart funds would
*  Riga DH rehabilitation       US$ 135.2 million           disbursement reports         be available in a timely
*  Institutional support:                                                                manner
*  Implementation Support                               Progress reports
*  Social Assistance         U.S$ 2.4 million                                        Rigas Siltums project
Support                                                                          management staff would
*  Two-Tier Tariffs                                                                  be in place in a timely
*  Rigas Siltums                                                                     manner, supported by
Institutional Strategy                                                           experienced foreign and
local consultants
34



Annex 2: Project Description
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Riga DH improvement physical component - US$ 135.2 million
The component includes: (a) installation of autornated consumer substations for all buildings to allow for
the introduction of variable flow, and thereby facilitating dispatching of the heat load from the most
efficient and, at present, underutilized TEC 2 CHP plant as well as to facilitate heat energy savings at the
consumers; (b) replacement of corroded DH pipe sections in the worst areas to abate the leaks and to
increase the remaining life of the DH assets; (c) construction of a pipeline interconnection of the right and
left bank networks of the DH system and a pumping station to allow the left bank network heat demand to
be served from CHP plants; (d) various improvements at Imanta boiler house to convert it to peak load
and reserve plant, such as water treatment and controls; and (e) elimination of a number of small coal and
mazut-fired boiler houses by connecting the heat load into the main DH network.
Institutional support component - US$ 2.4 million
The component includes: (a) consultancy services for implementation support for Rigas Siltums in the
areas of procurement, project financial reporting and disbursement; (b) consultancy services for Rigas
Siltums to assist in the evaluation of the applicability of two-tier heat tariffs with fixed and variable
components, with a particular emphasis on raising public awareness on the suitability of this tariff
structure; (c) advisory services for Riga Municipality to improve the functioning of its social assistance
program; and (d) consultancy services to evaluate ownership options and to develop an action plan for the
selected institutional set-up of Rigas Siltums. A breakdown of the costs (in US $ thousands) and
implementation schedule for the institutional support program is as follows:
Institutional Support      2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    Total
Implementation Support      400      400     400      400              1,600
Social Assistance Support   50       50                                100
Tariff Study                         500                               500
Rigas Siltums Institutional
Strategy                             200                               200
Total                       450     1,150    400      400             2,400
35



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Latvia: Riiga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Consumer Substations (7,235 substations)               21.7           28.7          50.5
Network Rehabilitation                                 10.0           14.0          24.0
Interconnection Network                                 6.9           10.3          17.2
Daugava Pumping Station                                 0.6           0.6           1.2
Production Plant Rehabilitation                         1.0           2.4           3.4
Elimination of Inefficient Boilers                      1.0           1.5           2.6
Design and Site Management                              3.2                         3.2
Institutional Support                                                 2.4           2.4
Base Cost                                              44.4           60.0         104.4
Physical Contingencies                               1.5            1.9           3.4
Price Contingencies                                  5.0           4.2            9.1
Project Cost Net of Tax                                50.9          66.1          117.0
Taxes                                                20.6                        20.6
Total Project Costs                71.5          66.1          137.6
Interest during construction                                          4.0           4.0
Front-end fee on World Bank Loan                                      0.4           0.4
Total Financing Required           71.5          70.4          141.9
I             ~                         N
Goods                                                                63.7           63.7
Works                                                  47.2                         47.2
Services                                                3.7           2.4           6.1
Taxes                                                  20.6                         20.6
Total Project Costs                71.5          66.1          137.6
Interest during construction                                          4.0           4.0
Front-end fee                                                         0.4           0.4
Total Financing Required           71.5          70.4          141.9
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
36



Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Table 4.1: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(US$ mnillion of 1999)
Discounted Project Flows         Distribution
_Impact
Economic         Financial       Poor      Fiscal
Benefits                          112.4            110.7
Costs                             87.6             105.2   _
Project Indicators
*  NPV                            24.8              5.5
*  IRR                            16.1%            11.1%
*  Distribution Coefficient                                     49.5%     25.2%
Probability of Achievement       65.3%            58.2%         35.2%      62.2%
Results with a 75% Probability
of Achievement
IRR                               13.0%            10.0%
Distribution Coefficient                                        33.0%      22.2%
A. Overview. An economic analysis was conducted to verify that the proposed project is the least-cost
altermative, that the benefits justify the costs, and that its economic profile is robust against the
uncertainties that may affect its development. The appraisal includes least-cost analysis, economic and
financial cost benefits analyses, risk and sensitivity analyses and distribution analysis of the discounted
costs and benefits among the principal stakeholders.
B. Least cost analysis. The least-cost analysis of the proposed expansion investments shows that district
heating is a lower-cost option than the option of decentralized gas boilers in individual buildings in the
project areas. These results are largely explained by the high heat load densities in the areas served by the
project and the higher efficiency of DH supply relative to decentralized boilers. With the help of a
simplified spreadsheet model, the least-cost option for heating in Riga has been examined. The figure
following summarizes the results.
The model compared the heating costs of consumers in two greenfield type of centralized heating
situations (heat only boilers, and when heat is a by-product of power generation at zero cost') with
individual gas-fired mini-boilers. In the greenfield scenarios, it is assumed that no sunk costs for any
equipment or pipeline networks exist. In summary, the model compared the long-run costs at the user
level of:
* Gas-fired centralized boiler plant with hot water DH network, automated substations and metering
* Centralized boiler with hot water DH network, automated substations and metering, where heat cost
at the generation CBP plant is a by-product at zero fuel cost, and
* Decentralized heating with gas mini-boilers.
'This alternative is useful for comparison purposes for providing the absolute lower limit below which no
centralized heat source (whether based on inexpensive surplus heat, co-generation, free heat from waste incineration
or CHP, etc.) can be less expensive than heat from individual boilers.
37



Centralized Vs Descentralized Heating
US$/Gcal                Average density in Riga
35    -  ..-----.----.-.-.. .-                 ..-
30 ^.. ................. *;;. 
25  .  ............. . ...........   .................. ....
20 -. ..............,N...........................                 DOH option
1 5 ^  .   " .  "..........  . ..........1 ...............     a   DH  at zero fuel cost
10 .................I .............-*-... ...I.l.....             Mini-boilers option
5  -.-.-- ------ ----- --.--- ------ . ---- ------ -----
0         2          4          6          8         10
Linear density GcaVm
The figure shows that for high heat load densities (more than 5.5 Gcal per linear meter of DH network),
centralized DH is the preferred option as it would have a lower cost. For low heat load densities (less
than 2.0 Gcal per linear meter of DH network), gas-fired mini-boilers are the preferred option. Where
heat load densities are between 2.0 (ical and 5.5 Gcal per linear meter of DH network, a detailed analysis
using actual fuel and heat production costs at the plant would be necessary to determine the preferred
option.
As Riga has an average heat demand of 3.8 Gcal per linear meter of DH network, a more detailed analysis
has therefore been performed. Costs at the same level of heat demnand from DH and individual boilers
were compared. The least-cost analysis was performed in constant US$ of 1999. A discount rate of 10%
has been utilized, reflecting the opportunity cost of capital in Latvia. The table below clearly shows that
the option of rehabilitating the DH system is a lower cost option than the introduction of individual gas-
fired mini-boilers in buildings. The assumptions utilized for calculating the costs of each scenario are
explained following.
Table 4.2 Least Cost Analysis
(US$ '000 of 1999)
Alternatives                                                PV @  10%
Project Scenario                                               30,091
Individual Boilers                                             62,505
---------------------------------------_.  ----   --------      .........   -_.- - -   --..-_ I.- __ . w+ .---.?Mou..oss:vo _.^-e
Cos Dffence tothe F~0:   7 7                                   32,414
Project Scenario. Upgrade costs refer to the economic costs of the investments required to rehabilitate
the DH system. The economic costs of the investments correspond to the financial costs net of price
contingencies, taxes and financial transfers and corrected for distortions in the price of labor by using a
conversion factor of 0.91 for skilled labor and 0.73 for unskilled labor. Operation and maintenance
(O&M) costs are calculated by multiplying the unit O&M cost per Gcal times the incremental DH
production -"production with" minus "production without" the project. The incremental fuel costs are
calculated from the unit costs with the project times the increased DH production. The estimation
considers the differences in plant efficiencies and share of mazut and natural gas respectively for the
"with project" situation. In other words, fuel costs are estimated for the comparable heat demand and
incremental DH production. It is important to note that the improvements result in more efficient
production and distribution. Fuel costs with the project thus decrease over time. The fuel cost forecast
38



has been prepared in real terms2 as shown below and is used in the least-cost analysis and the economic
analyses. The valley and peak in the figure are explained by the historical and current (1997 to 1999)
contracted gas and mazut prices. As of 2000, Latvian fuel prices are expected to follow the price trends
in the European fuel markets.
Latvia Fuel Prices in Constant US$ of 1999
90 
85 -
80 -
) 75 -I    II                                           - - -  Gas$1000m3
70                                                     -   Mazut $/ton
65
60-.,.   1   t I .  . ...   . .  ..  ..  ...
,A\ 999 wN  o  &o wo wo9 woe woo       A0 w0,
A large quantity of heat supplied to customers is produced in Latvenergo plants TEC 1, TEC 2 and
Andrejsala. Rigas Siltums purchases this heat at a contracted price. With the project, where the right and
left networks are to be interconnected, more heat can be produced in Latvenergo plants, decreasing the
unit costs and the price of heat sold to Rigas Siltums. A lowered heat cost means that the Project
Scenario would result in savings in the cost of heat.
The incremental auxiliary electricity cost is equal to the forecasted electricity sales price (to the grid)
multiplied by the comparable heat demand, which is then multiplied by auxiliary electric load ratio. The
value of the incremental electricity sales is estimated from the additional power delivered to the grid times
the expected sales price of electricity.
The energy conservation savings result from the reduced heat consumption due to the reconstruction of
consumer substations, allowing customers to regulate their heat consumption. Improved heat regulation
will lead to energy savings which are valued in terms of fuel savings. Automated substations will make
heat regulation in the buildings more accurate and reduce the overheating of flats, typical in constant flow
systems. Overheating in constant flow systems is usually managed by opening windows, which will not
be necessary after the installation of new substations. Consumers will be able to tailor heat demand
according to the desired thermal comfort and individual affordability. Based on experience in other
similar projects, automated substations will lead to physical heat energy savings in the range of 10-25%, a
significant benefit once fuel savings are considered.
2 Source: World Bank Comnodity Markets and the Developing Countries, April 1999
39



The energy conservation benefit was estimated considering a mean expected energy conservation
parameter of 20.5% (considering a normal probability distribution with a lower extreme value of 10% and
a maximum of 25%). This probabi]istic parameter was applied to the annual DH heat output without the
project to yield the expected energy savings. The energy savings were then valued according to the unit
system cost without the project. Unit system cost is the cost of delivering a Gcal of heat without the
project, and the major share of the cost is the fuel cost. The unit cost considers the shares of mazut
(31.9% for the without project scenario) and gas, as well as the plant efficiencies (86.7% for the without
project scenario). This is summarized in the following formula:
[Energy Conservation I[Unit System      Energy Conservation) (Total DH
I       Benefit               Cost       L        Parameter       ) ( Output )J
Individual Boilers Scenario. Investment costs of individual boilers in 1999 prices is assumed to be $
136,970 per Gcal/hr. Total investment is calculated at this unit cost times the difference between the
original network capacity of 1,350 G3cal/hr and total network capacity without the project in each year.
The estimated gross investment is further adjusted by the factor accounting for the difference in
equivalent full load hours for district heating (2,600 hours) and individual boilers (2,200 hours). The
O&M costs of individual boilers are estimated at 3% of the (accumulated) capital investment in individual
boilers. The calculation of fuel costs is based on the required net production of mini-boilers, the expected
80%  efficiency of mini-boilers, the forecast prices for gas in Latvia and the energy content of gas,
assumed at 8 Gcall1000 m3.
C. Economic Analysis. The economic analysis compares the economic costs of the project with its
economic benefits. All costs and benefits are valued at 1999 border prices and are incremental in nature,
valued as the difference between the costs/benefits "with the project" and "without the project." The
economic costs and benefits are net of financial transfers, such as taxes and interest payments. Of the
project investments that started in 1999, about 10% would have been required also in the without project
situation, and thus have been deducted from the investments in that year. Shadow prices for foreign
exchange costs were not required for the analysis, since the current exchange rate is judged to be a
market-clearing rate. In Latvia, as in other transition economies, the economic cost of labor is generally
lower than the financial cost because of unemployment and underemployment at the ongoing wage rate.
A 0.91 conversion factor for skilled labor and 0.73 for unskilled labor has therefore been assumed. The
costs and benefits are considered over the economic life of the investments of 20 years. A discount rate
of 10% has been assumed. The table below presents the PVs of the cost and benefit of the project.
Table 4.3 Present Values of Economic Costs and Benefits
(US$ '000 of 1999)
Costs                                             Beneflts
l&    I Fuel I Total |Willinigness to Flay I Loss  | Heat   |Reliability I O&M I Total   N4et
Investment I &    Costs |Costs |Sale                I upu    reduction |conservation I improvement I savings I Benefits Benefit
77,790    917   8,938   87,645    33,350    3,079    3,968     54,371       14,043    3,592  1 12,402 2,5
On the cost side, the project investment costs include the proposed rehabilitation project, including design
and site management costs and physical contingencies. The O&M and fuel costs are the additional costs
to be incurred if the project is implemented, i.e. the associated costs to the increase DH production.
The economic benefits are based on: (a) what consumers would be willing to pay to avoid a deficit in
heat supply, (b) reduction of losses in the DH system, (c) energy savings from consumer substations, (d)
improvements in reliability in the DH service, and (e) savings in operations and maintenance (O&M)
costs.
40



The largest benefit corresponds to the energy conservation made possible from the regulation by users of
their heat use, which is not possible without the project. These conservation savings, valued in terms of
fuel savings, are fairly robust, as has been witnessed in other similar projects where constant flow systems
have been converted to variable flow systems. The social assessment has confirmed that: (a) 81.3%% of
the households surveyed wanted heat regulators, considering they would consume and pay less; (b) 12%
of households considered the temperature to be too hot during some part of the heating season; and (c)
about 10% of households opened their windows to lower the temperature and obtain fresh air.
The willingness to pay (WTP) for the additional supply of heat is the second largest benefit of the project.
WTP consists of the increase in sales revenues and the estimated consumer surplus. Consumer surplus is
defined as the difference between what consumers are prepared to pay for heating and what they actually
pay. When a project prevents an increase in prices, more consumers have access to heating services and
the existing consumers pay a lower price for the same amount of heat consumed. When the project
prevents a demand deficit, it actually prevents the price from rising under competition to the level of
demand that would reach equilibrium with the constrained supply. If without the project the delivered
heat supply is lower than the heat demand, then the willingness to pay to avoid the demand shortage will
be the estimated deficit times the heat sales price, plus the consumer surplus.
In the analysis, a constant elasticity curve has been used, which yields more conservative estimates of
WTP, as compared to a constant slope demand curve. For the purpose of estimating willingness to pay
benefits, the constant elasticity curve, i.e., P = AD A(l/e), has been used, where P stands for price, D for
demand, e for the elasticity, A is a constant, and A means "to the power of." The graph below illustrates
the shape of the curve for various heat prices. Riga's current annual heat demand of 3,288 Tcal is located
at the middle of the curve at the equivalent heat price of US$ 24.3 per Gcal.
Based on comparative analysis, a price-elasticity for heat demand of -0.8 for all customers has been
adopted. The ice elasticity is calculated as the relative change in heat demand over the relative change in
price. If demand declines by 8% given a 10% increase in price, the elasticity would be -0.8. The results
of the social assessment also suggest a long-run price elasticity of demand close to -0.8, in line with the
experience in the Kiev, Ukraine heat rnarket.
Heat Dermnd Curve
160
140..  ...... ..... ........... ......... ......... ..... ....... ... ........
120 ...  .........  ...................
100 . ...   ............................. I....................
I 80. .. .
c)  60  ............................
)0                        Current price S 24.3 for 3,288 Teal of
40 ...........                             ..........4.-.....
0
0      2,000    4,000    6,000    8,000    10,000    12,000
Demand '000 Gcal
The loss reduction in the DH network stems from the reduction in energy requirements due to
improvements to the DH network. These are valued in terms of the fuel savings due to the project. When
calculating the benefit, respective plant efficiencies, the fuel structure and forecasted fuel prices have
been taken into account.
41



The reliability improvement benefit is based on the economnic value of unserved heat. Although, the DH
system in Riga is reliable and unplanned breakdowns are unusual, there are however system shutdowns in
the Spring and Fall. The social assessment showed that, although few respondents complained about
heating interruptions, 40% of thern did report heating interruptions. Also, supply temperatures are
allowed to decrease during the coldest winter days, reducing the customers' indoor temperatures below
their demand. According to the estimates, 10% of heat is not supplied due to non-uniform indoor
temperatures.  In the estimation of the reliability benefits, the total cost, including delivery of the
incremental heat that would be possible with the project, was considered.
The value of unserved heat can be estimated based on: (a) the substitution costs of alternative heating
methods, and (b) the economic value of damages caused by undelivered heat. The first method provides a
conservative estimate because not every household can afford to purchase an electric space heater.
Consumers that cannot afford an electric heater bear all the costs associated with the increased sickness
rate, work absences and loss of income due to a prolonged heat supply outage. The second method
provides a better estimate. "Underheating" causes other economic damages to households, commercial
and industrial users. There are direct and indirect production losses where heat is one of the main inputs,
mechanical damages in buildings' heating systems, and in building structures (insulation, painting, etc.)
due to moisture. Consequently, the cost of unserved heat varies considerably depending on the time of
the year, consumer type, duration of interruption, etc.
In this analysis the first method has been used, based on the economic cost of heat from electric space
heaters, the most conimonly used form of substitution for heating during the coldest spells. It is assumed
that electrical heaters will be used to supply a part of this amount of unserved heat, mainly in the coldest
days, for non-sleeping hours and for interruptions longer than an hour. However, not all tenants can
afford electric heaters, only medium and high-income tenants can. Once the systems are rehabilitated,
these costs of supplementary heat disappear for the tenants.  These savings are thus a benefit to the
project. Based on the social assessment, it has been assumed that about 1/3 of the customers are using
electric heaters as substitution for DH when the heat supplied by the utility is insufficient. It is estimated
that the operation time for electrical heaters will be 2.7% of the heating season (4,320 hours currently) =
118 hours.
The estimates suggest an economic cost of unserved heat of $83/Gcal (71 US$/MWh), based on a unit
cost of an electric heater of $24 per I to 1.5 kW, with an expected 5 year average service life and an
electricity econornic cost of $37.7/MWh (43.80 $/Gcal). The table below presents a summary of the
assumptions used in the calculation.
Table 4.4 Calculations of Outage value
Concept                             Unit          Value
Electric heater (1 - 1.5 kW)      $ per unit       24
Life                                years           5
Thermnal output                    Gcal/h        0.00129
Average usage                      hr./yr.         118
Discount rate                                      10%
Capital recovery factor                           25.0%
Cost of electricity                $/Gcal         43.84
Annual output                       Gcal          0.15
Annual capital cost                 S/yr           5.94
Capital cost per uniit             $/Gcal         38.95
Outage value                       $/Gcal         82.8
42



The electricity economic cost is based on the estimate of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of
electricity, which is defined as the incremental system expenditures (investment and operating) to meet
the forecast increment in demand over the planning horizon. The LRMC for power has been used in the
economic analysis to align future tariffs with opportunity costs and thus value the increase in willingness
to pay made possible by the project, and to estimate the net improvement in reliability. The LRMC has
been estimated assuming a new combined cycle plant is constructed in Latvia or in any other neighboring
country using a condensing steam turbine (no combined heat and power) and burning natural gas. A 10%
discount rate has been assumed. The LRMC of electricity has been calculated to be about US$
37.7/MWh. The table below presents the parameters and assumptions of the LRMC calculation.
Table 4.5 New combine cycle powe generation
Assumptions                          Values          Units
Investment                            845           US$/kW
Maturity                               25            Years
Discount Rate                          10              %
Annual installment                    0.11
Plant efficiency                       55              %
Operation time                        5,000          Hours
O&M (incl. Staff costs)                5.0         US$/MWh
Natural Gas price                      80        US$/m3*1000
Total Natural Gas price at plant      8.62         US$/MWh
Capital cost                          18.6         US$/MWh
Variable cost excl. O&M               14.1         US$1MWh
Variable cost incl. O&M               19.1         US$/MWh
Total production cost (LRMC)          37.7         US$/MWh
The O&M benefit stem from the savings made in different parts of the DH system. These savings are
applied to the level of demand that would be supplied without the project.
Further unquantifiable environmental benefits would result from reduced emissions of S02, NOx, CO2
and dust due to lower fuel consumption (and for some plants, due to improved combustion control).
D. Project Financial Cost-Benefit Analysis. The financial analysis compares the project costs with the
project benefits. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant prices and are incremental in nature,
valued as the difference between the costs/benefits "with the project" and "without the project." The
analysis was carried out over the period of the expected life of the investments of 20 years. The table
below presents the PVs of the financial flows. The financial net present value (FNPV) amounts to
US$5.5 million and the financial rate of return (FRR) to 11.1% with a 58.2% certainty. With a 75%
probability of occurrence, the FNPV is certain to cover costs, breaking even and yielding at least a FRR
of 10.0%, equivalent to a nominal FRR of 14.4%, both of which are considered robust and satisfactory
when compared with the cost of capital in Latvia of 10%. The project has an acceptable payback period
of 11 years, and a low probability of achieving a negative outcome of less than 25%.
Table 4.6 Present Values of Financial Costs and Benefits
(US$ '000 of 1999)
Costs                                     Benefits
Operation System  Total        Sales Heat Purchase Loss  Unserved   Total  Net
Investments Maintenance Costs    Costs  Revenue  Savings  Savings energy   Benefits  Present
Value
95,331    917   8.938    105,186       33,350   12.801   61,931  2,610   110,691    5,505
For the calculation of the FNPV, the same financial flows the utility will face over the life of the project
has been assumed. On the cost side, Rigas Siltums will have outlays for the project's capital costs, fuel
43



and O&M system costs. On the benefits side, the company will have sales revenue, savings in the bulk
heat purchases from Latvenergo, expenditure savings from lower losses, and higher sales from the
improvement in reliability (less unserved energy) than would be possible without the project.
For the calculation of the FRR, the cost stream includes all the costs incurred to construct, operate and
maintain the project facilities over the useful life of the investments, and the benefits are the gross
revenues derived from the project. The FRR is measured as the discount rate which equalizes the present
value of the cost stream associated with the project to the present value of the project's benefit stream.
The FRR indicates the maximum interest rate that Rigas Siltums could pay on the capital invested in the
project and still break even financially.
All of the costs and benefit items have been explained previously. Regarding the savings in bulk heat
purchases, a large quantity of heat supply comes from Latvenergo plants TEC 1, TEC 2 and Andrejsala.
Rigas Siltums purchases this bulk heat at a contracted price. With the project, there would be an increase
in heat production and lower unit costs in Latvenergo plants. This means that Latvenergo would decrease
the price of heat sold to Rigas Silturns. A lowered bulk heat price means that the project would receive a
savings from the lower heat production costs. The hcat purchase saving is calculated as the total amount
of purchased heat times the difference between the purchase prices "with" and "without" the project.
E. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis. A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to test the robustness of
the ERR of the project to changes in its key cost and benefit components, such as investment costs, fuel
costs, willingness to pay, loss reduaction, energy savings due to the installation of substations, and
operation and maintenance savings, all of which are subject to risk and uncertainty. The analysis shows
that the proposed investments are attractive and robust, as only with significant increases in costs or large
decreases in benefits would the ERR fall to levels below the opportunity cost of capital of about 10%.
For example, more than a 30% increase in investment costs or more than a 250% increase in natural gas
prices would be required for the ER1R to fall below 10%. Also, willingness to pay benefits would need to
decrease by more than 60% or energy conservation benefits would need to decline by more than 45%
before the ERR would fall below 10%0. The project's economic indicators are not particularly sensitive to
changes in operation and maintenance costs, loss reduction and other savings, or reliability benefits.
A risk analysis was also undertaken as projects in Latvia face a certain risks. Part of the risk is associated
with the macroeconomic and political uncertainties facing all transition economies. Another part is
specific to the project and these uncertainties are considered in the risk analysis. Risk analysis covers a
number of possible uncertainties relaited to project delays, cost increases, lower avoided demand deficit,
lower efficiencies, losses and operation and maintenance savings with the project, higher and lower tariffs
and fuel prices, and lower reliability improvements. Risk analysis estimates the likelihood that the project
risks would have an adverse effect on the economic indicators of the project.
In the risk analysis, different input variables, key parameters and assumptions of the cost benefit
spreadsheet model are assigned probability distributions so that a weighted expected ENPV and ERR can
be estimated. The software "Crystal Ball" was used to carry out the analysis. The software allowed the
extension of the forecasting capability of the spreadsheet cost benefit model developed in Excel. Each
input variable, parameter and assumption was expressed as a range of possible values within a probability
distribution curve. Based on the specified risk distributions for each variable, the cost benefit model was
subjected to a random Monte Carlo simulation with 5,000 trials, estimating the probability of occurrence
of the project's ENPV and ERR.
The risk analysis indicates that the project has a probability of 65.3% of achieving the calculated
outcomes (NPV = $24.8 million and ERR = 16.1 %). On the other hand, with a 75% certainty the project
outcomes are still attractive with an NPV = US$ 15.7 million and an ERR = 13.0%. The probability of
obtaining an uneconomic rate of return below the 10% opportunity cost of capital for lIatvia is less than
8%. The main assumptions and parameters of the analysis, along with the risk distribution curve, are
presented in the table below.
44



Forecast: ENPV
Summary:
Display Range is from -50,000 to 125,000 US$ million
Entire Range is from -65,287 to 138,535 US$ million
After 5,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 385
Statistics:                                     Value
Trials                                   5000
Mean                                     31,395
Median                                   32,335
Standard Deviation                       27,196
Variance                                 739,625,494
Skewness                                 -0.07
Kurtosis                                 2.84
Coeff. of Variability                    0.87
Range Minimum                            -65,287
Range Maximum                             138,535
Range Width                              203,822
Mean Std. Error                          384.61
Forecast ENPV
1,000 Trlals             Frequency Chart                3 Outliers
.036                                                38
.3 - .          l-                               27
3  01         .                    _8
0,000      4250       3,0        81,250     125,000
LIS$ 4illicn
45



Annex 5: Financial Summary for Rigas Siltums
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Years Ending September 30, 2000 through September 30, 2005
('000 Lats)
Income Statement Items
Heat Sales (000's Gcal)   3,277       3,122       3,115      3,114      3,140     3,084        -1.0
Revenues                 62,402       59,452      59,319     59,288    59,790    58,728        -1.0
Operating Income          7,019       6,970       7,186      8,296      13,430    12,463       10.0
Net Income                1,079        397         53          62       3,251     2,680        16.4
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources          7,019       6,970       7,186      8,296      13,430    12,463       10.1
Hire-Purchase Income        -          743        1,976      3,165      4,237     6,206        52.9
Borrowings and Grants     5,840       10,061      14,502     10,490     8,872       -          12.4
Total Sources          12,859      17,774      23,664     21,950    26,538    16,702         4.5
Capital Expenditures      8,234       11,993      17,585     15,457     19,474    15,000       10.5
Working Capital Increase    3,574     3,477        791        463       (491)   (4,009)         -
(Decrease)
Debt Service               761         803        1,719      2,670      3,428     6,707        43.7
Taxes                     1,434       2,167       2,779      2,399      3,509     893          -7.6
Total Applications     14,003      18,441      22,873     20,988     25,920    18,592        4.8
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets            10,103      12,707      14,279     15,703     18,467    16,546        8.6
Current Liabilities       4,229       4,022       4,012      4,012      6,647     8,658        12.7
Net Fixed Assets         44,778       45,608      52,773     57,025    60,112    66,999         6.9
Total Assets           58,690      68,254      82,556     92,861    107,620   109,139       10.9
Debt                      6,164       15,537      29,796     40,040    45,740    40,516        36.9
Equity                   48,297       48,694      48,747     48,809    52,060    54,740         2.1
Total Liabilities and  58,690      68,254      82,556     92,861    107,620   109,139        10.9
Equity
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue               11.2%      11.7%       12.1%      14.0%      22.5%    21.2%
Net Income as a
% of Revenue              1.7%        0.7%        0.1%       0.1%       5.4%      4.6%
Return on Assets             2.4%        0.9%        0.1%       0.1%       5.4%     4.0%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  9.22        8.68        4.18        3.11      3.92      1.86
Current Ratio                2.39        3.16        3.56        3.91      2.78      1.91
Debt as % of Total           11%         24%         38%        45%        48%       46%
Capitalization
46



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Procurement
1.       Responsibility.  Project implementation would require procurement of goods, works and
consultant services. Rigas Siltums, the project's implementing agency, would be responsible for the overall
project procurement activity, including compliance with procedures and timetables agreed with the Bank.
Rigas Siltums' Project Management Organization (PMO) would carry out all Bank-financed procurement
activity. A procurement team has been formed within the PMO and entrusted with primary responsibility of
the project bidding process. The team reports to the PMO's technical manager who is coordinating the
various activities involved in project implementation. The PMO's technical manager, who is a highly
qualified operational officer, has worked effectively on procurement matters with Bank staff during project
preparation.
2.       Given Rigas Siltums' limited international procurement experience, an international consultant
has been recruited to assist the procurement team. The consultant is being financed by the Swedish
Government's aide agency, Sida, under the $ 2.4 million equivalent grant program proposed for the project's
institutional support. A procurement workshop, including the PMO's procurement team and their consultant,
would be organized with the Bank's support during project launch. The workshop would focus on the World
Bank's procurement policy and procedures and their application to the procurement arrangements planned
for the project.
3.       Procurement Plan. A detailed procurement plan was prepared during project appraisal and
revised during loan negotiations and includes the contract packaging, applicable procedures and timing
schedule for the project, including the co-financed components. The plan would be updated periodically,
every 12 months, with the necessary details, as they become available (including list of tenders issued;
contracts under procurement, execution or completed, contracts to be procured in the upcoming calendar
year; costs of ongoing and completed contracts; estimated costs for upcoming contracts; schedule of bidding;
and particular methods of procurement).
4.    Project Goods and Works. The proposed project would finance: (i) partial and complete consumer
substations in buildings for system delivery optimization and efficiency improvement at a total cost of about
US$ 66.4 million; (ii) sections of distribution and transmission pipes for system rehabilitation at a total cost
of about US$ 31.3 million, (iii) interconnection of the right and left banks of the Daugava river including a
pumping station at a total cost of about US$ 25.3 million; (iv) improvements at Imanta heat-only-boiler
house for peak load and reserve plant and overall environmental improvement at a total cost of about US$4.4
million; and (v) elimination of inefficient small coal-fired boilers at a total cost of about US$ 3.4 million.
The proposed World Bank loan of US$ 36.2 million equivalent would finance: (a) US$ 35.2 million of
supply and installation of district heating pipes and the pumping station, (b) US$ 0.6 million of insulation
materials and pipe fittings and (c) the front-end fee of US$ 0.4 million equivalent. The remaining project
goods and works would be financed by: (a) the Swedish loan of US$ 26.6 million equivalent, (b) the
commercial banks' loans of US$ 17.2 million equivalent, and (c) Riga City and the Rigas Siltums for the
remaining expenditures.
5.       Project Consultant Services.  The proposed project would finance consulting services for
procurement and implementation support (US$ 1.6 million), for evaluation of a two-tier tariff structure
(US$0.5 million), for support for improving the effectiveness of the social assistance program (US$ 0.1
mnillion), and for an institutional strategy study for Rigas Siltums (US$ 0.2 million). Grants would be
obtained from donors for the consultant services. Additional consultant services would be required to assist
Rigas Siltums in system design for load optimization, environmental improvement and site implementation
supervision management for an estimated cost of about US$ 4.3 million. These additional consultant
services would be financed by Rigas Siltums.
47



6.       Methodsfor Bank-Financed Procurement. Bank-financed procurement would be carried out in
accordance with the provisions stipulated in the Loan and Project Agreements and the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
would be used for Bank-financed procurement. The project procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table Al.
7.       Methods for Non-Bank-Financed Procurement. Project procurement not financed by the Bank
would be carried out in accordance with Latvian and the co-financiers' procurement rules and regulations.
Procurement arrangements under pa]rallel financing would be the responsibility of the borrower and the co-
lenders. These arrangements, including rules and regulations, were reviewed during project appraisal and
found acceptable to the Bank.
8.       Bank-Financed Procurement Procedures. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be
used for goods and supply and installation contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more.
ICB procedures would cover 98%b of Bank-financed goods and supply and installation contracts.
International Shopping (IS) procedures, based on comparison of quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two different countries, would be used for packages estimated to cost below the equivalent of
US$ 100,000. The aggregate amount of contracts under IS procedures is equivalent to IJS$ 0.7 million.
9.    Supply and Installafion Arrangements.  District heating system rehabilitation and expansion
programs are best realized through supply, installation and commissioning arrangements, which would be
applied for a large part of the project procurement using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the
Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment. This approach would be appropriate because: (a) for the
supply and installation of consumer substations, pipelines and the pumping station, the cost of goods would
represent a substantial part of the estimated contract value (about 60%); and (b) installation of district heating
pipes and associated equipment often requires small design changes which can be best carried out by the
supplier. District heating pipe replacement can be implemented only when heating is not required, from
April to September. The procurement has therefore been divided into annual contracts reflecting the typical
arrangements in district heating projects where the construction generally takes place only during summer
time.
10.   Procurement Review. Procurement documents for the Bank-financed components would be subject
to the Bank's review. All ICB contracts (draft bidding documents, invitation to bid, evaluation reports, both
for supply and installation and goods), would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Procurement documents
for the project tenders under IS for goods (draft invitation to quote and evaluation report before contract is
signed) would also be subject to Bank's prior review. The prior review would cover 100% of Bank-financed
procurement value.
11.   Advertising. A General Procurement Notice has been published in the United Nations Development
Business newsletter in February 2000.  The Notice would be updated annually for the remaining
procurement. In addition, specific tenders would be advertised by the PMO, as they become available, in at
least one national newspaper of large circulation. Furthermore, the PMO may also advertise some of the
tenders in an international newspaper or a technical magazine. The PMO may also seek "expressions of
interest" by contacting embassies and trade representatives. Notification should be given in sufficient time to
enable prospective bidders to obtain bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.
12.   Risk Assessment. A Country Procurement Review (CPAR) for Latvia has not yet been carried out.
A key aspect for defining the level of prior review has been the procurement capacity assessment of Rigas
Siltums. The assessment involved company officials to complete data collection questionnaires about their
own rules and regulations as well as the country's laws and regulations. Because of Rigas Siltums' concern
for economy and efficiency, the company's management has been closely monitoring its procurement
activity, making the company's tendering and contracting practices without apparent risk. However,
problems associated with procurement are likely to occur, because of: (i) the company's lack of experience
48



in international procurement in general and Bank procurement in particular; (ii) the magnitude of
procurement associated with the proposed project; (iii) the less-than-complete legal framework and
enforcement mechanism now available in the country; and (iv) difficulties that are often imbedded in
transitional economies. The overall procurement risk rating is therefore high.
13.   Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed. It is recommended that the project's
procurement be supervised at least once every 6 months. Additional procurement supervision mission would
be required for post-reviews and audits. It is highly likely, therefore, that the amount of resources required
for supervision of the Bank-financed procurement would be higher than the Bank-wide average.
14.   Procurement Audit.  In addition to prior reviews, the Bank may carry out an audit of the
procurement it finances. Whereas the prior reviews are regular tasks under the project, procurement audit
would be a spot check of the quality and consistency of Bank-financed procurement work.
Disbursements
15.   Proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed according to allocated amounts and percentages per category
of expenditure as indicated in the Table C below.
16.   The Loan proceeds will be disbursed over the five-year period 2001-05. The Project Completion
Date is expected to be December 31, 2004, and the Loan Closing Date is expected to be June 30, 2005, when
full disbursement of the Loan is anticipated. Rigas Siltums would maintain all required supporting
documentation for at least one year beyond the year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account has
taken place and make it available for review by the Bank staff and independent auditors upon request.
17.   A Special Account would be opened and managed by Rigas Siltums in accordance with World Bank
operational policies. Rigas Siltums would support each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account
through the submission of a Project Management Report (PMR). Upon receipt of each application for
withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the World Bank would deposit into the Special Account an amount
equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount requested, or (b) the amount that the Bank has determined, based on the
PMR accompanying the application for withdrawal, that is required to finance eligible expenditures during
the upcoming three-month period. However, the amount to be deposited, when added to the balance of the
Special Account, would not exceed 20% of the Loan amount, i.e., US$ 7 million equivalent. As
circumstances warrant, direct payments may continue to be authorized. If utilized, withdrawal applications
for direct payments should be at least US$ 0.5 million equivalent during the first two years of the Project and
at least US$ 1.0 million equivalent thereafter.
49



Annex 6, Table A: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method                  Total Cost
ICB             IS            N.B.F.
1. Supply and                47.5                           82.8            130.3
Installation
(35.2)                                         (35.2)
2. Goods                                     0.7                             0.7
(0.6)                          (0.6)
3. Consultant Services                                       6.7             6.7
4. Front-end Fee                                                            (0.4)
Total                        47.5            0.7            89.5            138.1
of which Bank               (35.2)          (0.6)                   _      (36.2)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
50



Annex 6, Table Al: Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule
World Bank-Financed Procurement                                               _
Major Procurement Packages & Years Of   Category         Estimated Cost         Tender  Invitation   Bid    Contract Contract  Contract
Implementation                of Proc.        (US$ million)       Preparation  to Bid   Opening   Award   Signing  Completion
Date      Date     Date     Date      Date      Date
Total    Bank-
Financed
Supply & Installation of District
Heating Primary Networks 1)
Year 2001 (16.5 km)          1       S & 1     7.4       5.5     ICB      Sep-00    Nov-00   Jan-01   Mar-01   Mar-01    Nov-01
Year 2002 (31.3 km)                  S & I     13.1      9.7     ICB      Sep-01    Nov-01   Jan-02   Mar-02   Mar-02    Nov-02
Year 2003 (42.7km+P.St.)       2       S & I      15.0     11.1    ICB      Sep-02    Nov-02   Jan-03   Mar-03   Mar-03    Nov-03
Year 2004 (49.0km)                             1         8. 9    ICB      Sep-03   Nov-03   Jan 04   Mar-04   Mar-04    Nov-04
Supply of Insulation
Materials & Fittings
Year 2002-2004             7        G         0.7      0.6      IS
Total                 12                 48.2     35.8
I) Includes pipes for elimination of inefficient boilers
Commercial Bank(s)-Financed Procurement
Supply & Installation of
Consumer Substations
Year 2000                I      N.B.F      2.2       1.9    N.B.F.  Sept. 99   Nov. 99   Jan. 00   Mar. 00  Mar. 00    Nov-00
Year 2001                1      N.B.F.     2.2       1.9    N.B.F.   Sept. 00   Nov.00  Jan. 01   Mar. 01   Mar. 01    Nov-01
Year 2002                I      N.B.F.     2.4       2.0    N.B.F.  Sept. 01   Nov. 01  Jan. 02   Mar. 02  Mar. 02    Nov-02
Subtotal                3                  6.9      5.8
Network Rehabilitation,
Secondary
Year 2000                1      N.B.F.     2.9       2.5    N.B.F.  Sept. 99   Nov. 99   Jan. 00   Mar. 00  Mar. 00    Nov-00
Year 2001                I      N.B.F.     2.9      2.5    N.B.F.  Sept. 00   Nov.00   Jan. 01   Mar. 01   Mar. 01    Nov-01
Year 2002                1      N.B.F.     3.1       2.7    N.B.F.  Sept. 01   Nov. 01  Jan. 02   Mar. 02  Mar. 02    Nov-02
Subtotal                3                  9.0      7.7
Production Plant
Rehabilitation
Year 2000-2001             1      N.B.F.      4.4      3.7    N.B.F.  Sept. 00   Nov. 00  Jan. 01   Mar. 01   Mar. 01    Nov-01
Total                  7                 20.3     17.2
I1  _ _   _    _   i  _  _   I l_    l_         _  _   _   _  _     _   _    _   _   I  _ _   I  _ _  _
51



Annex 6, Table Al: Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule
cont.
Swedish Loan-Financed Procurement
Major Procurement Packages         Category         Estimated Cost        Tender  Invitation    Bid    Contract Contract   Contract
& Years Of Implementation          of Proc.        (US$ million)       Preparation  to Bid   Opening   Award   Signing  Completion
Date     Date      Date     Date     Date       Date
Supply & Installation of Substations
Year 2000                I     N. B.F.     4.2      3.6    N.B.F.   Sep-99   Nov-99   Jan-00   Mar-00   Mar-00    Nov-00
Year 2001                I     N.B.F.      6.6      5.6    N.B.F.   Aug-00   Nov-00   Jan-01   Mar-01   Mar-01    Nov-01
Year 2002                1     NS B.F.     6.6      5.6    N.B.F.   Aug-01   Nov-01   Jan-02   Mar-02   Mar-02    Nov-02
Year 2003                1     N.B.F.      6.6      5.6    N.B.F.   Aug-02   Nov-02   Jan-03   Mar-03   Mar-03    Nov-03
Year 2004                1     N.B.F.      7.4      6.2    N.B.F.   Aug-03   Nov-03   Jan-04   Mar-04   Mar-04    Nov-04
Total                  5                31.4      26.6
Grant-Financed Procurement
Institutional Support                      _
Sida                  1      N.B.F.     2.1       2.1    N.B.F.
Others                 3      N.B.F.     0.3       0.3    N.B.F.
Total                  4                 2.4      2.4
a Ci-Financed Procurement
Supply & Installation of 300
Substations
Year 1999 (90)             1     N.B.F.      1.6      1.6    N.B.F.   Oct. 98   Dec.98   Feb.99   Jun.99   Jun.99    Oct. 99
Year 2000-02 (210)          3      N.B.F.      3.6      3.6    N.B.F.
Total                  4                 5.2      5.2   |
IRi as Siltums-Financed Procurement
|  Consumer Substations                         g
Share of remaining works and   N.A.   N.B.F.       19.5             N.B.F.
|  rernaining other amounts                                                                                                       _
| Design & Site Managernent    j       l          l        l        l       ll                  l         1
Year 2000-2004           N.A.   N.B.F.       3.7              N.B.F.
Other Items                                 7.5             N.B.F.
Subtotal, net of Taxes                          30.7
Taxes                                    19.8             N.B.F.
Grand Total                          32               137.6
S & 1: Supply and Install; G: Goods (Supply of Goods); I.S.: International Shopping; N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed; N.A.: Not Applicable
52



Annex 6. Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods and Works         ICB                    IS
Thresholds:  Individual  Goods 2 $100,000      Goods <$100,000
& aggregate             All Supply and Install    AEreg. $700,000
Prior Review            All                    All
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirement Review
of the implementation agency to conduct procurement has been assessed. As a result, the following action plan is being implemented:
irement specialist (PS) has been hired to assist the agency in implementing procurement activities for the project. The PS has familiarity with World bank
id practices. The PS has been hired prior to the project launch workshop. Also, prior to the loan negotiations, the Project Management Organization (PNl
id the procurement team members and their technical manager appointed. Prior to appointment of the PS, the PMO, the procurement team and the technical man;
vith Bank procurement procedures and practices so that they can initiate the project procurement as early as possible.
er familiarization, through seminars and workshops, of the project implementation agency's procurement staff with Bank's procurement procedures and practi(
early as possible during project launch. The procurement seminars and workshops should also include the preparation of bidding documents for each type of
followed under the project.
urement technical manager and selected procurement team members should attend Bank sponsored training courses in Turin.
urement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  Were the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first ye
t been made.                                                          negotiations: Yes
Section 3: Training, Information and Develo  ment on Procurement
te of Project Launch  Date of publication of General  Indicate if there is procurement  Domestic Preference for Goods:  Domestic Preference
ovember 2000         Procurement Notice:             subject to  mandatory  SPN  in  No                                applicable: NIA
e 2Februare 2000                  Development Business: Yes
nancing: No -- Explain:                                                               Advance procurement: No -- Explain:
ly the Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement monitoring system will be established within the PMO which will collect and keep up to-date all procd
this data in progress reports to the Bank.
Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: Swedish loan: Sida's procedures based on EU rules for public utilities
Section 4: Procurement Staffmg
of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name: Hannachi Morsli, PAS, Ext: 82873
y the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: Limited liaison role only.
ICB: Intemational Competitive Bidding; IS: Intemational Shopping
53



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in   Amount in          Financing Percentage
US$ million  EUR million
A. Supply and Installation        20.36        14.10    100% of foreign expenditures and
Contracts                                               80% of local expenditures
B. Goods                                       0.62     100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of ex-factory expenditures or
80% of other local expenditures
C. Front-End Fee                  0.22         0.16     100% of amount due
Subtotal    20.58       14.88
Unallocated    1.08         0.78
Total  21.66    15.66   _-
54



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         NA                25 months
First Bank mission (identification)           5/13-21/1997          5/13-21/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      6/1999              6/28/1999
Negotiations                                     10/1999             6/1-9/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/2000
Prepared by: Rigas Siltums with the support of a Steering Committee including representatives of Riga
City Council, Latvenergo, Latvian Privatization Agency, Ministry of Economy, Energy Regulatory Board
and the Swedish Government's Aid Agency, Sida,
Preparation assistance: Bilateral Aid from the Swedish Government with consultancy assistance provided
by Fjarrvarmebyran together with Stockholm Energi's consulting arm, Teknik & Miljo (Sweden) and
Coopers & Lybrand (Latvia)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Carolyn Gochenourgram Team Leader
Pentti Aro                                 District Heating Engineer
Luis E. Gutierrez                                Energy Econonmist
Enar Wennerstrom                        Financial Analyst/Financial Management
Anna Bjerde                                    Financial Analyst
Roberto Tarallo                           Financial Management Specialist
Hannach Morsli                           Procurement Accredited Specialist
Dina Grube                                     Energy Specialist
Eugen Finkel                                    Social Scientist
55



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan for Rigas Siltums
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Rigas Siltums' Financial Analysis
Project Economic, Risk and Distributive Analyses
Procurement Implementation Capacity Assessment
Rigas Siltums' Financial Management Review
C. Other
Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project, Phase 1, Final Report, Fjarrvarmebyran AB, December 21,
1998,
including Environmental Irnpact Review, Section 6
Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project, Phase 2, Final Report, Fjarrvarmebyran AB, March 15, 1999
Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project, Phase 3, Final Report, Fjaarvarmebyran AB, June 30, 1999
*Including electronic files.
56



Annex 9: Social Assessment
Latvia: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project
I. BACKGROUND
1             During project preparation, a social assessment was carried out in Riga to obtain
feedback from households on a series of issues related to the provision of heat and hot water. First, the
assessment was based on qualitative research using structured in-depth interviews and focus group
discussions with residential district heat customers as well as consultations with staff from Riga Siltums,
City representatives, housing maintenance organizations, municipal social assistance offices and civil
society stakeholders.  Second, the assessment was based on quantitative research by means of a
questionnaire-based household survey administered to 500 randomly-selected residential district heating
and hot water customers. In addition, a supplementary survey was carried out administered to 120
randomly- selected beneficiaries of Riga City's allowance program for housing and utility services
providing support to low-income households.
2             The issues addressed in detail in the assessment are: (i) quality and reliability of the
provision of heat and hot water, (ii) level of satisfaction and hardships due to insufficient provision of
heat and hot water, (iii) patterns of supplementary heating and other coping strategies, (iv) physical
conditions of heat and hot water installations, (v) metering and conservation of heat and hot water, (vi)
household budgets and expenditures for heat and hot water by different income groups, (vii) collections,
cost recovery, and indebtedness, (viii) poverty of residential customers based on detailed data regarding
household incomes and expenditures, (ix) affordability, willingness to pay, price-elasticity of demand,
and (x) effectiveness of the social assistance in place.
3      The assessment provided inputs for project design and justification. Specifically, the assessment
clarified what level of heating comfort (degrees Celsius of indoor temperature) residential customers
would like to have in winter and what they are willing to pay for the desired level of comfort. Similarly,
the assessment analyzed what level of hot water comfort (in terms of consumption levels and quality of
service provision) residential customers would like to have and what they would be willing to pay for the
desired level of comfort. In addition, the assessment provided inputs into the economic analysis of the
project as well as insights into financial, fiscal and institutional issues related to cost recovery from
residential customers. Finally, the assessment is suggesting measures to improve the effectiveness of the
allowance program to support low-income households. The detailed results of the social assessment are
provided below.
II. GENERAL INFORMATION
4             In Riga, residential district heating and hot water customers are largely identical with the
city's population living in apartment buildings. This population comprises about 90% of Riga's
inhabitants. On average, households have 2.6 members, including 0.4 children below 15 years of age.
More than 97% of these households live in separate apartments, a few households live in communal
apartments and some individuals in dormitories. On average, households have 2.6 rooms. The size of the
apartment amounts to 51 square meters, on average. 99% of the households are connected to the power
network, 94% have cold water and sewerage, 90% have network gas for cooking, 90% have central
garbage collection, 87% have telephone, 47% have cable TV and 4% have network gas for heating. 35%
of the apartments are privatized, 31% belong to the municipality, 21% are property of the state and 13%
of the flats are rented from private landlords.
57



III. DISTRICT HEATING
Overview
5             Residential customers are relatively satisfied with the quality of district heating provided
by Riga Siltums, and complaints are moderate. While reporting a temperature of 18.3 degrees Celcius, on
average, in their flats, households consider 20.05 degrees as ideal room  temperature.  Service
interruptions account for only about 1% of heating time citywide. For supplementary heating, residential
customers primarily use electric heaters, however, household expenditures for supplementary heating are
rather low. Heat losses due to opening windows are small. Households conserve heat primarily by
applying weatherstripping of windows and doors. Many households would like to have heat regulators
and heat meters both at the building level and in their flats. They believe this would reduce heat
consumption and heat bills. The overwhelming majority of respondents are not willing to pay more if the
room temperature in their flats would be increased. 36% of the respondents would like to reduce the
average room temperature if this reduction would also lead to a lower heating bill.
Room temperature
6             During the past heating season residential customers had an average temperature of 18.3
degrees Celcius in their flats and consider 20.05 degrees as ideal room temperature.
Too hot
7             12% of the respondents reported that it was too hot in their flats. C'hart 1 below shows
for how long it was too hot in the flats according to estimates of residents.
Chart 1: Too hot in the apartment, duration
,vire than six mrDnths
Four to six mronths
Three to four rmnths  8.6%
Two to three rrDnths      15.5%
Cne to tw o rmDnths
One vw eek to one rmDnth
One w eek or less
8             When it was too hot, the temperature was 22.73 degrees, on average. The highest
temperature reached, on average, was 24.47 degrees.
Too cold
9             37% of the respondents reported that it was too cold in their flats. Chart 2 below shows
for how long it was too cold in the flats according to estimates of residents.
58



Chart 2: Too cold in the apartment, duration
I tbre than six rrnnths  3 8%
Four to six rmDnths
Three to four rnDnths    8.70
Two to three rmnths      16.3%
One to tw o nunths
One w eek to one rmDnth
One w eek or less
10             When it was too cold, the temperature was 15.07 degrees, on average.  The lowest
temperature reached, on average, was 13.09 degrees.
Heating interruptions
11             Complaints regarding heating interruptions were moderate.   Almost 60%  of the
respondents reported no heating interruptions at all. Chart 3 below shows the percentage distribution of
different numbers of interruptions registered by residential customers. Service interruptions during the
last heating season account for only about 1% of heating time. Chart 4 shows the extent to which
residents estimate that heating interruptions due to maintenace were publicly announced or not.
Chart 3: Interruptions registered by customers
Never
Once         10.6%
Twice         11.7%
Three tirmes E j  10.8%
Four tirres    7.3%
Chart 4: Interruptions due to maintenance are
announced
Alw ays or rmstly
Frequently
Sorretirres
Rarely or never
don't know
59



Supplementing heat
12            For supplementary heating, residential customers primarily use electric heaters. Some
customers also use gas-fired cooling ranges as well as wood or coal fired heaters. Nevertheless,
household expenditures for supplernentary heating are low, amounting to only 2.4% of what households
spend for district heating. Chart 5 shows the extent to which households use different heating equipment
for supplementary space heating.
24.6%        Chart 5: Heating equipment used for
supplementary heating
10.8%
5%
U_____5%              0.8%       0.8%
~~ -
Bectric  Gas cooking Wood/coal  Bectric  Gas heaters
heaters   ranges    heaters   cooking
ranges
Opening windows
13            Opening of windovvs was not deviant from reasonable norms and was mainly done to get
fresh air. Thus heat losses due to opening windows are marginal. Chart 6 shows how often residential
district heat customers usually open windows in their apartment, Chart 7 shows for what reasons they
open the windows, and Chart 8 shows for how long customers left the windows open, on average.
Chart 6: Frequency of opening windows
Never
A few tirres per week
Once a day                      33.6-/o1
Several tins a day
Always
Chart 7: Reasons for opening windows
13ecause it is too hot   3.2%
To get fresh air
Both L    9.7%
Don't know     11.8%
60



Conserving heat
14            As key measures of conserving heat, households in Riga apply weatherstripping of
windows (80.7%) and doors (57.6%). In addition, people close curtains in the night to keep their flats
warmer. 24.8% of the households do this always, 33.5% only when it is very cold and 41.2% of the
residents never. 55.7% of the households even lift the curtains when they are closed and cover the wall
radiators in order to get as much heat as possible. Only a few households (6%) replaced windows in order
to make their flats tighter and put reflecting foil behind their wall radiators (3.4%) in order to better use
Chart 8: Duration of opening windows
Five minutes or less   _N       r
Five to ten minutes
fvbre than ten minutes  18.4
Don't know    13%
the heat provided.
Radiators
15            The most important problem regarding radiators is the problem that some radiators in the
flats are not getting as hot as the others. 26% of respondents reported this problem. Only 5% of
respondents reported that radiators are leaking, not more than 6% of the households replaced original wall
radiators with more effective ones, and 10% of the households would like to replace, or are going to
replace, original wall radiators with more effective ones.
Metering heat
16            Meterin! heat at the building level. 70% of the respondents have a heat meter in their
building (10% don't have, 20% don't know). 81.3% of those households who don't have a meter would
like to have one, most likely, because most of these households (77%) believe that the installations of heat
meters will, in the end, result in lower heat bills.
17            Metering heat at the apartment level. 82.2% of the households surveyed would like to
have heat regulators and heat meters in their flats. Most of these households think they would consume
less heat if they had regulators and meters at the flat level (69.3%). They also believe that these
regulators and meters would lead to lower heat bills (77.6%). Chart 9 shows how much heat households
opting for regulators and meters would expect to save if they had these regulators and meters in their flats.
Chart 9: Expected heat savings
Nothing     5.4%
Up to one f ourth of current consunption
One fourth to one half of current consunption     21.9%h
lvbre than one half of current consumption  6.3%
Don't know



Getting disconnected
18           To further explore satisfaction or dissatisfaction of residential customers with district
heating, these customers were asked if they ever considered to get disconnected from the heating network.
The survey results showed that 22.4% of them did consider getting disconnected from the network. A
large number of these households (83.9%) considered getting disconnected because they think they
cannot afford district heating services. Also, concerns regarding the quality of heating, to some extent,
motivated residential customers to consider getting disconnected, in particular, the concern that nobody
regulates the temperature according to the outside temperature (62.5%) as well as the concern that the
heating season starts too late (65.2%) and ends too early (56.3%). However, other quality concerns
hardly motivated customers to consider getting disconnected, including too low (37.5%) or too high
(11.6%) room temperatures in the flats or service interruptions due to maintenance (18.8%) and
emergency factors (8%).
19           Surprisingly, more than half of the households (52.7%) considered getting disconnected
from the district heating network because they thought heating with electric heaters was cheaper. 27.7%
thought heating with wood or coa]-fired stoves was cheaper, whereas 25.9% thought heating with gas-
fired heaters was cheaper. Provided that they would really request getting cut off and in fact get
disconnected from the district heairing network, 71.2% of households would heat with electric heaters,
26.8% would heat with gas-fired heaters while 19.8% would heat with wood or coal fired stoves.
Public education and the dissemination of information on alternative options for space heating
20           The fact that many of those households who considered getting disconnected from the
district heating network (i) believe that heating with electric heaters is cheaper than district heating and
(ii) an even larger number of these households would indeed heat with electric heaters if they would
really get disconnected from the heating network calls for public education and the dissemination of
information on comparative costs of space heating options. Above all, poor families need to know which
is the cheapest form of space heating at home. In particular, households need to know if, or under which
conditions, it is convenient to get disconnected from the heating network and use gas-fired or electric
space heaters in each room at horne, or install mini-boilers at the apartment level or at the level of a
building or detached house. Also, those households whose homes are located out of reach of the district
heating network need advice on the most cost-effective choice of space heating. Riga City, in close
coordination with Riga Siltums, should provide information to Riga's households regarding different
heating options for different categories of residential customers.
Willingness to pay for heat
21           Willing to pay more for increased heat. 3.8% of the population would be willing to
pay more if the room temperature in their flats would be increased. A mere 2.2% of the households
surveyed would be willing to pay more if the room temperature would be increased to 21 degrees. On
average, these individuals would be willing to pay 11.36 % more of their current heat bill in order to
obtain a room temperature of 21 degrees. The most important reason for households to pay more is their
wish to have sufficient room temperature always (100% of respondents). Relevant for the willingness of
78.9% of the households to pay more is the fact that they would have more money for district heating if
they would have to spend less for supplementary heating. Also, 57.9% of the households are willing to
pay more just because they can afford it.
22           Not willing to Pay more for increased heat.  The overwhelming majority of
respondents (96.8%) are not willing to pay more if the room temperature in their flats would be increased.
The most important reasons for this refusal to pay more are listed in Chart 10 below. Remarkable is that
the following statements were clearly rejected as indicators for factors influencing the willingness of
residents to pay more: "nothing happens if we do not pay" (68.9%) and "the state or private employer do
62



not pay salaries on time" (63.9%).
Chart 10: Reasons for not willing to pay more
Rga Siftums is overcharging             -
Cannot afford paying nore
State shouW pay part of the charges for heat              69.1%
They w ill not irrprove service          57.4%
Quality of present service is not bad
Reducing room temperature in order to pay less
23             36%  of the respondents would like to reduce the average room  temperature if this
reduction would also lead to a lower heating bill. On average, they would you like to reduce the room
temperature to 16.78 degrees. For this lower room temperature, they would you like to reduce their heat
bills by almost 29.64%. Reducing the room temperature from 18 C to 17 C would actually save some
3% of the costs of the provision of heat.
Price-elasticity of household demand for district heating
24             In order to assess the demand sensitivity of households in response to tariff increases for
district heating, households of the supplementary survey were asked to what extent they would like to
reduce their room temperatures if tariffs would increase 10, 20, 30 and 50%. Based on the data obtained
from these questions, the price-elasticity of demand for district heating was calculated. The result of this
exercise showed that the household response to tariff increases is relatively inelastic. Elasticities obtained
fall in the range of 21-27%. Details are shown in Table 1 below. The table also shows how the share of
households which would not reduce their demand for district heating would decline as .ariffs increase.
Table 1: Price-elasticities of demand at increases of the district heating tariff by 10, 20, 30
and 50 percent. Share of Households not reducing demand in reaction to tariff increases.
District heating tariff   Price-elasticities of demand    Percentage of households not
increasing               for district heating       reducing demand in reaction to
by                                              increases of the district heating
tariff
10 percent                      -27                             71.8
20 percent                       -26                             50.9
30 percent                       -27                             30.6
50 percent                       -21                             25.7
63



IV. HOT WATER
Overview
25            Residential customers are relatively satisfied with the quality of hot water services
provided by Riga Siltums, and complaints are moderate. Willingness to pay more for improved hot water
services is scarce. Hot water consumption drops dramatically after the installation of hot water meters,
however, many household cannot afford buying meters. 18% of households don't have hot water services
in connection with district heating; the majority of these households are not interested in getting
connected to the hot water network. Many of these households mistakenly believe that heating water with
electric equipment is cheaper than hot water services provided in connection with district heating.
Oualitv of hot water
26             Households complain that it takes too long until water becomes hot after opening the hot
water tap. Chart 11 shows how lonlg it takes according to the surveyed households until hot water comes
out of the tap.
Chart 11: Hot water comes out of the tap
hyrediatety
After a minute                          3%
After one to five mfinutes                         30%
After rrnre than five minutes  1   0     116%
After more than ten rrinutes  %
Though connected, don't lIave hot water at all ||1%
27            40% of households have problems with hot water pressure. Also for 40% of respondents,
hot water is often dirty, and contains rust or other particles; for 48% of respondents hot water is
sometimes dirty, and contains rust or other particles.
28            For 56% of respondents, hot water did not always have the temperature desired. Above
all, water was too cold. Chart 12 shows the extent to which households considered water to be too cold.
The extent to which household thought that water was too hot is moderate: for 35% of respondents water
was sometimes too hot, for 58%, rarely or never.
Cliart 12: Water is too cold
always or mostly            19.5
frequently                           5.5
sometimes |                    31.6
rarely or never ] 3.5
64



Hot water interruptions
29            Respondents reported hot water interruptions due to both emergency repairs (64%) and
maintenance (77%). For emergency repairs, they had, on average, 3.14 interruptions, lasting 17.61 days.
For maintenance works, they reported, on average, 1.92 interruptions, lasting 17.61 days. 54% of the
respondents reported that, in case of maintenance, hot water cuts were always or mostly previously
announced.
Hot water pipes and taps
30           Interviewees indicate that they have problems with hot water pipes. 24% of respondents
state that hot water pipes in their flats are getting clogged. 48% of surveyed households report that hot
water pipes had gotten clogged in their buildings. 52% of households report that they had hot water pipe
breaks in their buildings. Not surprisingly, 55% of respondents believe that it would be necessary to
replace part of the hot water pipes in their building; 38% believe that it would be necessary to replace all
hot water pipes. According to 10% of households, hot water pipes are leaking, whereas taps are leaking
in 14% of the cases.
Willingness to pay for hot water
31           About 12% of the population would be willing to pay more if the quality of hot water
would be very much improved (always ideal temperature; immediately hot water when opening tap; no
dirt, rust or other particles; no interruptions). On average, these people would be willing to pay more by
approximately 14% of the amount of money they currently pay per month for hot water. Key reasons for
the willingness of households to pay more, including the frequencies at which households agreed with
these reasons, are listed in Chart 13, below:
Chart 13: Reasonsforwilling to pay more
No dirt, rust or other particles in water
Always ideal temperature
Immediately hot water when opening tap                  76%
No interruptions                 67%
32           52% of the households willing to pay more disagreed with the statement that cost is not a
problem for them; 29% agreed with this statement and 19% were undecided.
Not wilIine to pay more for hot water
33           88 % of the population is not willing to pay more, although the quality of hot water
would be very much improved. Key reasons for the lack of willingness of these households to pay more,
including the frequencies at which households agreed with these reasons, are listed in Chart 14, below:
65



Chart 14: Reasons of households for not willing to pay more
Cannct afford paying more -
Riga Siltjms is overcharging
Riga Siltums will not improve serce                        169%
State should pay part of the charges    66     3
34             72% of the households not willing to pay more disagreed with the statement that nothing
would happen if they do not pay, and 68% disagreed with the statement that the state or private
employers do not pay salaries on time.
Metering and conserving hot water
35             Households with hot water meters.  65 % of the respondent households have a hot
water meter. The vast majority (94.4%) of those who have a hot water meter reported that their hot water
bill decreased after having installed a hot water meter. Also, 50.9% of the households with metered hot
water service stated that they consumed less after having installed a hot water meter, whereas 46.5% of
them reported that the installation of a hot water meter did not alter the level of hot water consumption.
In order to consume less hot water, households with metered service applied a series of measures shown
in Chart 15, below:
Chart 15: Provisions to consume less hot water undertaken by households with hot
water meters
Close taps inr   diately, no more running taps
Repair irnTediately leakage of hot water taps and pipes
Take show er instead of bath in bath tub I  O   0%
Rinse dishes w ith cold w ater   52 %
Do not wash dishes under running hot water  _  0%
Use bw-f low shower-heads   115%
Take show er at relatives/friends w ho donl have neter   8%
36             Households without hot water meters. 35% of the respondent households don't have a
hot water meter. 86% of them would like to have a hot water meter, while 91.1% believe hot water
meters would decrease their hot water bills. A large majority of the households (78%) who would like to
have a hot water meter express that they cannot afford to buy the number of hot water meters they need
for their flat.
66



Reducing hot water consumption and hot water bill
37           If they had metered hot water, 46% of the respondents without hot water meters would
consume less hot water in order to reduce their hot water bill. However, 34% of them would not consume
less. The extent to which the former are willing to apply measures to save hot water is shown in Chart 16
below:
Chart 16: Measures to consume less hot water envisioned by households
without hot water meters
Close taps irmediately, no rrore running taps _.
Repair imTnediately leakage of hot w ater taps and pipes
Do not w ash dishes under running hot w ater               590/%
Take shower instead of bath in bath tub               55%
Rnse dishes with cold water              44%
Use low -f low show er-heads        0%
Take show er at relatives/f riends w ho don't have neter  _ 5%
38            Households lacking metered hot water service seem to be willing to apply measures to
save hot water to a larger extent than those households who already have metered service. On average,
households without hot water meters would be able to reduce their current hot water consumption by 29%
in order to lower their hot water bill. For this lower hot water consumption, they would like to reduce
their current hot water bill by 39%.
Households without hot water in connection with district heating
39            18%  of residential district heating customers do not have hot water provided in
connection with district heating.
40            Opting for connections to the hot water network. Of those households who don't have
centrally provided hot water, 22% would like to have centrally provided hot water. Currently, most of
them (63%) heat with gas- fired cooking ranges, 21% heat with electric water heaters and 16% heat with
gas-fired water heaters.
41            Not interested in hot water connections. Surprisingly, a large number (78%) of those
households who don't have centrally provided hot water are not interested in getting connected to the hot
water network.
42            Disconnected from the network on request. A little more than half (53%) of the
households not interested in connections to the hot water network are households who had centrally
provided hot water earlier, but requested to get disconnected and now don't like to have centrally
provided hot water services anymore. The majority of these households (63%) heat with gas-fired
cooking ranges and 37% of them heat with electric water heaters. Practically none of this group of
households heats with gas-fired water heaters.
43            Remarkably, one third of the households that heat with gas-fired cooking ranges believe
that heating water with electric water heaters is cheaper than centrally provided hot water services,
although electricity, in fact, is the most expensive household fuel available. Thus, altogether, 56% of the
households who got disconnected from the hot water network on request believe that heating water with
electric water heaters is cheaper than centrally provided hot water.
67



44             Not surprisingly, almost all (88%) of the households disconnected from the hot water
service on request don't want to have this service, because they think they cannot afford it. In addition,
key service deficiencies prevent these households from giving preference to centrally provided hot water
service. These deficiencies, including the frequencies by which households mentioned them, are shown
in Chart 17 below.
Chart 17: Hot water deficiencies observed by households cut off from service on
request
It takes too long until hot w ater cones out of the tap       -
Often, water is dirty, contains rust or other particles
Water is often too cod                                790/l
Frequent interruptions due to maintenance                           79%
The hot w ater stream out of the tap is thin (w eak)
Emergency interruptions such as pipe breaks 
45             Other households not interested in network connections. About 55% of the remaining
households that are not interested in connections to the hot water network heat water with gas-fired water
heaters, 26% of these households heat with electric water heaters and 19% heat with gas-fired cooking
ranges. This group of households doesn't want to have centrally provided hot water, primarily because
they think they cannot afford it (71%o). Also, the perception that water is often too cold (65%) prevents
these households from opting for centrally provided hot water. Furthermore, service interruptions due to
maintenance (45%). the observation that it takes too long for hot water to come out of the tap (45%), as
well as concerns about emergency interruptions such as by pipe breaks etc. (32%) contribute to the same
result.
Lack of affordability and deficiencies of service iuality
46             The emphasis that households put on their inability to afford centrally provided hot water,
strongly linked to the weight that these households put on shortcomings inherent in hot water service
quality, suggests that lack of affordability only results in disconnection from the hot water network if this
is aggravated by strongly observed deficiencies of service quality.
Public education and dissemnination of information on alternative options for heating water
47             The fact that many of those households who don't want to have centrally provided hot
water due to lack of affordability, heat water with electric water heaters, or consider the use of electric
water heaters cheaper than centrally provided hot water services, calls for public education and the
dissemination of information on comparative costs of household fuels for heating water. Above all, poor
families need to know which is the cheapest form of heating water at home. In particular, these families
need to know if or under which conditions it is convenient to get disconnected from the municipal hot
water service and use gas-fired water heaters or ga-fired cooking ranges for heating water. In addition,
those households whose homes are located out of reach of the district heating and hot water network may
need advice on the most convenient form of obtaining hot water. Riga City, in close coordination with
Riga Siltums, should provide information to Riga's households regarding different hot water options for
different categories of residential customers.
68



GettinB disconnected
48            To further explore satisfaction or dissatisfaction of residential customers with centrally
provided hot water services, households were asked if they ever considered getting disconnected from the
hot water network. The survey results showed that 15% did consider getting disconnected from the
network. The reasons for this consideration strongly resemble the reasons for which households without
municipal hot water services don't like these services or got disconnected from the hot water network.
First, a large number of these households (80.6%) considered getting disconnected because they think
they cannot afford municipal hot water services. Second, these affordability concerns are clearly
correlated with concerns regarding the quality of centrally provided hot water services, however, to a
lower degree than in the case of households who in effect got disconnected on their request. These
quality concerns, including the frequencies by which households mentioned them, are shown in Chart 18
below. Third, practically the same share of households as in the case of the group of households
disconnected form the hot water network, namely 56.6%, believe that the use of electric water heaters is
cheaper than centrally provided hot water services.
Chart 18: Hot water deficiencies observed by households considering
disconnection from the network
Water is often too cold
Frequent interruptions due to rraintenance                      60%
Often, w ater is dirty, contains rust or other particbLs              57%
t takes too long until hot w ater conres out of the tap              55%
Price-elasticity of household demand for hot water
49            In order to assess the demand sensitivity of households in response to tariff increases for
hot water, households of the supplementary survey were asked to what extent they would like to reduce
their hot water consumption if tariffs would increase 10, 20, 30 and 50%. Based on the data obtained
from these questions, the price-elasticity of demand for hot water was calculated. The result of this
exercise showed that the household response to increases of the hot water tariff is moderately elastic -
clearly more elastic that the relatively inelastic response of households to increases of the district heating
tariff. Elasticities obtained fall in the range of 46-63%. Details are shown in Table 2 below. The table
also shows how the share of households which would not reduce their demand for hot water would
decline as tariffs increase.
Table 2: Price-elasticities of demand at increases of the hot water tariff by 10, 20, 30 and
50 percent. Share of Households not reducing demand in reaction to tariff increases.
Hot water tariff increasing    Price-elasticities of demand    Percentage of households not
by                      for hot water         reducing demand in reaction to
increases of the hot water tariff
10 percent                      -46                          68.3
20 percent                      -50                          41.0
30 percent                      -63                          21.0
50 percent                      -63                          17.3
69



V. PAYING FOR HOUSING AND COMMUNAL SERVICES
Overview
50           Residential customers mostly pay their heating and hot water bills in offices of municipal
housing maintenance organizations. A large majority of households indicates that the offices where they
pay have inconvenient working hours. 28% of households owe for heating and 18.5% owe for hot water.
Households owing for heat and hot water are not predominantely poor. The majority of debtor
households owes relatively small amounts of money for heat and hot water. However, these debts
account only for small shares of total household debts for both heat or hot water. The debts of a relatively
smnall number of heavily indebted households account for large shares of total household debts for heat
and hot water. Also, these debtors are not predominantely poor. A strategy of enforcing cost recovery
from households owing for heat and hot water should, in the first instance, target this small number of
heavily indebted households.
Paving bills
51           Households mostly pay their heating and hot water bills in offices of municipal housing
maintenance organizations (78%). Some of them pay in bank offices (10%). For most households (66%),
the offices where they pay are not far away from the places where they live or work. Rarely or never,
54% of the households have to wait long for paying heating and hot water bills, with 36% of the
households having to wait sometimes. However, 80% of the households interviewed indicate that the
offices where they pay charges for heating and hot water bills have inconvenient working hours. Clearly,
the majority of households (77%) would you like to pay for heating each month during the heating season
only, whereas 17% would like to pay charges for heat each month during the whole year. The remaining
households are undecided.
Indebtedness
52           28% of the households owe for heating. They owe on average 131 Ls, which is
approximately 6 monthly payments. 18.5% of the households owe for hot water. They owe on average
102 Ls, which is approximately 13 mronthly payments. Households owing for heat and hot water are not
predominantely poor. They are distributed rather evenly across all expenditure categories of households.
On the other hand, there are a number of indebted households (10%) who would be eligible for social
assistance but, in fact, do not receive any (50% of them fall in expenditure quintile 1, 77% in expenditure
quintiles 1 and 2; see section on household budgets, below).
Reasons for vavine late heat or hot water charges
53           The major reason for paying late are shown in Chart 19 below.
Chart 19: Major reasons for paying late heat and hot
water charges
Charges are not affordable
Charges exceed the applicable cost                80%
State has to pay part of the charges|          67%
70



54            Clearly rejected as accurate reasons for paying late were the assumptions that private
employers do not pay salaries on time (63%), state agencies do not pay salaries on time (61%), and
nothing would happen if residents do not pay (61%).
Repaving debts
55            26% of the households have an arrangement for repaying heat and hot water debts. In
most of the cases, these arrangements have been signed with housing maintenance organizations. On
average, households agreed on paying back all accumulated debts within 3 months.
Indebtedness and enforcement of cost recovery
56            A detailed analysis of the frequency distributions of household debts for heat and hot
water provides interesting inputs for the development of a suitable strategy for enforcing cost recovery
from households owing for heat and hot water. Charts 20 and 21 below show the frequency distributions
of household debts for heat and hot water.
Chart 20 - Frequency distribution of household
debts, Lats
>20-
C.,
" 0*      
I  =                                Std. Dev= 120.34
Mean= 120.2
0.a                                                       N = 127.00
.o~ ~~ %27 k9oo ko u?o to ?o 8%0
Household debts, Lats
71



Chart 21 - Frequency distribution of household
debts for hot water, Lats
30
8%20-
C
XL 10
Std. Dev= 84.38
Mean = 67.2
0                                                         N = 77.00
0.0   50.0  100.0  150.0  200.0  250.0  300.0  350.0
25.0   75.0  125.0  175.0  225.0  275.0  325.0  375.0
Household debts, Lats
57            Chart 20 shows that a clear majority of households owes relatively small amounts of
money for heat. Also Chart 21 shows that a significant majority of households owes rather small amounts
of money for hot water. However, the debts of these majorities account only for small shares of total
household debts for heat or hot water.
58            This conclusion can be drawn from Chart 22 below, which shows household debts for
heat by quintiles as percentages of total household debts for heat. This conclusion can also be drawn
from Chart 23, which shows household debts for hot water by quintiles as percentages of total household
debts for hot water.
Chart 23: household debts for hot water by quintiles
as a percentage of total hous hold debts for hot water
70.0 R ;
60.0
40.0
40.0       E M
30.0
20.0
1 0.0* lI
| 6Lhlilel  QnThle2  QiWnOle3  QintIe4  Qinlile5
59            Chart 22 shows that quintiles I and 2, the bottom 40% of households indebted for heat,
account for only about 10% of total household debts for heat, whereas the top 20% of debtors account for
56% of total household debts for heat. Also, Chart 23 shows that quintiles I and 2, the bottom 40% of
households indebted for hot water, account for only about 7 % of total household debts for hot water
whereas the top 20% of debtors account for 61% of total household debts for hot water. Quintiles in
Charts 22 and 23 have been created based on ranking households in ascending order according to the
amounts of their debts.
72



60            Further, an analysis of expenditure levels of households in the top quintiles of debtors for
heat and hot water shows that these households are not predominantely poor (low expenditure level
households).  They are distributed rather evenly across all expenditure categories of households.
Nevertheless, a number of households in the top quintiles of debtors for heat and hot water would be
eligible for social assistance but, in fact, do not receive any.
61           In order to maximize effectiveness, a strategy of enforcing cost recovery from households
owing for heat and hot water should primarily target the relatively small number of high ranking debtors
whose debts account for large shares of total household debts for heat and hot water. However, to comply
with the responsibility of providing the best possible social protection to poor households, those
households targeted for measures of enforcement should be systematically screened for social assistance
eligibility, specifically informed about the social assistance program and instructed how to apply. Under
conditions carefully to be determined, retroactive program coverage may be considered. This measure
would provide the utmost social protection and, at the same time, increase the likeliness of successfully
collecting heat and hot water debts accumulated over longer periods of time.
Enforcement
62            However, relatively soft enforcement mechanisms such as fines or publishing the names
of indebted households in the building entrance or the local newspaper seem not likely to work. Over
80% of indebted households (either heavily indebted or not) indicated that they would not pay if these
mechanisms would be applied. Only more drastic measures such as disconnecting households from the
telephone or electricity network, or disconnecting entire buildings from the heating and hot water network
may have some effect: between 30% and 40% of households would pay their debts in response to these
measures. The rate of households willing to pay their debts in reaction to these enforcement provisions
increases if also the degree of indebtedness increases.
VI. ALLOWANCE PROGRAM FOR HOUSING AND UTILITY SERVICES TO LOW-INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS
Overview
63            Riga City's allowance program for housing and utility services is the most important
social assistance program for low-income households at the local level. The effectiveness of this program
has to be strengthened. Several flaws have been identified. First the coverage of the program deficient.
Second, there is leakage of resources to non-eligible households. Third, the application process should be
simplified and made more customer-friendly. Fourth, operational and administrative practices of the
allowance program should be improved. In particular, program rules and regulations should be reviewed
and adjusted and applied more uniformly across city districts as well as under conditions of reasonably
controlled flexibility of interpretation. Furthermore, program objectives have to be defined more clearly.
Transformation of the allowance program into a general cash-based poverty benefit scheme may be
considered. Also, additional computerization is needed as well as computerized communications among
allowance offices. In addition, communications with other city agencies and central government
departments should be computerized. Fifth, staffing should be increased and staff training is needed.
Complementary to the Riga district heating project, assistance is being proposed to upgrade the
effectiveness of the allowance program.
Allowance program for housing and utility services
64            Riga's allowance program for housing and utility services is the most important social
assistance program at the local level besides a large number of other smaller programs such as the food
benefit program, the medical services allowance, the water meters program and other smaller programs.
In the first half of 1999, the allowance program for housing and utility services absorbed more than 60%
73



(1,680,135 Ls) of all city expenditures for social assistance (amounting to 2,794,342 Ls). This program is
means-tested and tries to guarantee a food minimum of 24 Ls for households with a per capita income of
42 Ls or less (pensioners: 55 Ls or less, food minimum: 26 Ls) considering established social norms for
calculating applicable charges for housing and utilities. A key component of the social assessment was
the appraisal of Riga's allowance program for housing and utility services. The results of this appraisal
are provided below.
Lack of program coverage
65           The social assessment concluded that the effectiveness of the allowance program for
housing and utility services in place should be strengthened. First, lack of program coverage should be
tackled. According to results from the household survey, about 3% of residential district heating
customers in Riga are beneficiaries of the allowance program, however, almost 11% would be eligible but
do not currently receive program benefits. More than 50% of these households do not plan to apply to the
program. Chart 24 below shows in greater detail the intentions of eligible households to apply to the
housing allowance program or not.
Chart 24: Intentions of households to apply
Yes                        27.8%
No, not eligible                       31.5%
No,other reasons                20.4%
Undecided                  20.5%
66           The major obstacle that prevents people from applying appears to be the fact that they do
not know the program (about 70% of eligible households). Also, people do not know where and how to
apply (more than 80% of eligible households). Consequently, most of households (83%) eligible for the
allowance program state that they do not have enough information about the program.
67           In order to provide appropriate social protection to low income households, Riga City
should increase coverage of the allowance program. This objective can be achieved through improved
information dissemination. Also better inter-agency cooperation, in particular, with municipal housing
maintenance organizations may help increase program coverage. Improved cooperation with housing
maintenance organizations is important because these organizations are a key agency for disseminating
information about the allowance program due to regular contacts with a large number of households.
Even at present, without an information dissemination strategy in effect, housing maintenance
organizations are the second most important source of information for residential customers on the
allowance program (see Chart 25 below).
74



Chcrt 25: Informction Feceived from
Relatives, friends
HMO staff                             19.2%
Tv                             | 18.3%
Newspaper                        15%
Social assistance staff              1117%
Radio         5.8%
Brochure, bulletin  1.7%
Other sources 0 08%
68            Apparently, households would not feel stigmatized in case they would apply to the
allowance program. This conclusion can be derived from the fact that 74% of eligible households disagree
with the opinion that requesting social assistance from the state is humiliating. Also, declaring their
incomes seem not to be a problem for eligible households. The survey shows that 91% of these
households don't mind declaring their incomes or are indifferent regarding declaring or not declaring
incomes.
69            On the other hand, 35% of eligible households believe that the amount of money that they
would receive is so insignificant that it is not worth while to apply. Considering the scarce information
households have about the allowance program, they may not know how much financial support they
would receive if they would apply. This issue reveals that not only lack of information about the
allowance program is a problem but also lack of correct information. Among survey households, there
seems to be some concern regarding the perceived requirement of having to accept jobs that they may not
like as a precondition for applying to the program. 35% of the respondents have this concern, while 28%
don't.
Program leakage
70            The assessment further identified program leakage as an issue to be tackled in order to
upgrade the effectiveness of the allowance program for housing and utility services in place. The analysis
of data obtained from the survey showed that about one third of the allowance beneficiaries in fact are not
eligible. This conclusion resulted from an assessment of income, expenditure and demographic data
obtained from the household survey. Data from 120 beneficiary households was analyzed in detail on a
case-by-case basis. Social assistance staff as well as interviewers who had carried out the survey work
participated in the assessment. The interviewers were able to enrich the assessment based on additional
information from visual evidence and conversations with the respondents.
71            A key provision to address program leakage is improved targeting of eligible households.
The current practice of means-testing based on reported income should be strengthened by using suitable
poverty correlates for processing applications. To improve targeting of eligible households, in-depth
interviews and focus group discussions with social assistance staff should be carried out in order to
develop guidelines for targeting the poor.
72            Currently, a number of social assistance employees appraise eligibility of applicants
based on a valuable and extensive stock of experience, qualified insights in the nature of poverty and
vulnerability, and well-developed assessment skills. However, the knowledge and capacity of these
employees are largely implicit and intuitive. Thus, this knowledge and capacity should be systematically
analyzed, made explicit and used for the development of targeting guidelines. To obtain best possible
75



results, also social workers, local poverty assessment experts and selected beneficiary households should
participate in the above in-depth interviews and focus group discussions to develop targeting guidelines.
Application process
73            Factors related to the process for applying to the allowance program  can also be
improved. On the one hand, in the perception of allowance beneficiaries, the application process appears
to be a rather fast and easy undertaking than an overly time-consumning and tiresome effort - 58% of
allowance recipients think the process is fast and easy while 30% consider it to be a time-consuming and
tiresome activity. Nevertheless, the following survey results help better appraise efforts required for
applicants to obtain program assistance and allow to identify areas for improvement.
74            Program applicants had to visit their allowance offices several times (for details see Chart
26), spending altogether roughly 3.5 hours for these visits. In addition, applicants had to visit other
offices (such as housing maintenance organization offices) in order to get all documents required for the
application. What catches attention is that about 60% of applicants were not attended the same day when
they visited their allowance offices and had to come back another day.
Chart 26: Number of visits to allowance offices
One   27.1%
Two                        49.2%
Three 1 11%
Nbre than three E l12.7%
75            Charts 27 and 28 show how many offices people had to visit and how many visits
altogether they had to make to get all documents required. On average, people spent a total of 4.1 hours
for making these visits.
Chart 27: Number of all offices visited
One                           30.8%
Two                      24.2%
Three                   21.7%
Four              15.8%
F_Ke and rnore    5.8%
76



Chart 28: Number of all office visits
One                               25%
Two                               25%
Three                   15%
Four                  14.2%
Five or more                       20.8%
76           A majority of applicants (52%) believe that it takes too long until receiving an answer
after having submitted the application, 34% disagree with this opinion, while 14% of applicants are
indifferent. On average, applicants had to wait two and a half months until receiving an answer. Chart
UB9 shows further details on the time applicants had to wait for an answer.
Chart 29: Months to wait for answer
1 nonth                           22.4%
2 n-rnths                                  28.5%
3 nunths                                 26.7%/
Nbre than 3 nDnths                       21.6%
77           A large number of program applicants complained about inconvenient office hours of
both allowance offices (79%) and housing maintenance organization offices (88%).
78           Procedures for applying to the allowance program should be simplified and made more
customer-friendly by reducing the need to visit various offices several times and by minimizing the time
applicants have to wait in line when they visit these offices. The time it takes until applicants receive an
answer from the allowance offices after having submitted their application should be minimized. And
scheduling of office hours should be more responsive to the needs of applicants.
Satisfaction with pro&ram and social assistance staff
79           The allowance programs seems to alleviate efforts of low-income households to survive -
98% of them would have applied also if the had known beforehand how much money they would get.
However, at the same time, 85% of the respondents stress that they still do not have enough money for
buying the minimum of food they need in their households.
80           In the opinion of applicants, allowance program employees seem to be competent: about
70% of the respondents stated that employees were able to answer all questions asked. However,
friendliness of allowance program staff could be improved. Only one third of the respondents consider
that officials attending them were friendly, while almost all other respondents were undecided regarding
the question whether allowance program staff was friendly or not.
77



Improving operational and administrative practices of the allowance program, transforming
program ob.ectives
81            Operational and administrative practices of the allowance program  should also be
improved in order to upgrade program effectiveness. First, program rules and regulations across city
districts should be applied more uniformly. Also, the degree of flexibility in the interpretation of rules
and regulations should be reasonably controlled. Currently, application of rules and regulations across
city districts varies; moreover, interpretation of eligibility rules and regulations may occasionally be too
generous, though well-intended. In addition, program objectives have to be defined more clearly. Though
originally conceived as a mechanism to help low-income households pay charges for housing and
communal services, the allowance program has been used to a considerable extent as a general cash-based
poverty benefit scheme. This transformation may be a move in the right direction. However, any
changes in terms of program objectives have to be done explicitly and supported by an appropriate policy
framework.
82            Second, software programs used for processing and administering applications should be
standardized. At present, a variety of such programs are used across city districts. This complicates
communication as well as comparison and aggregation of data at the city level.  Furthermore,
communications between different social assistance offices should be computerized in order to improve
program operations and administration. To this end, a local area network should be established. Also,
additional personal computers are needed. In addition, communication with other city agencies and
central government departments (including tax authorities, housing maintenance organizations and
providers of utility services) should be computerized. In particular, crosschecks with other social sector
databases (pensions, family benefits) should be facilitated. Data exchange programs are required to
facilitate computerized communications with agencies and departments at the local and central
government level. Further computerization of program operations and administration, in particular,
computerization of inter-office and interagency communications would simplify application procedures
and made these procedures more customer-friendly (see section on application process above).
Reviewing rules and regulations ol' the allowance program
83            Systematic in-depth interviews and focus group discussions (linked to the above effort of
developing targeting guidelines - see section on program leakage) should be carried out with staff of the
allowance program, local social workers, poverty assessment experts and selected beneficiary households
in order to review and adjust existing program rules and regulations. These rules and regulations should
be reviewed and adjusted in order to ease operations, make the program more customer-friendly and
eliminate mechanisms that may prevent eligible beneficiaries from applying to the social assistance
program.
Staffing and training
84            Increased staffing is necessary in order to improve coverage of the allowance program.
Staff training is needed to ensure uniform and high quality application of program rules and regulations
everywhere in the city. Staff training is also needed in connection with actions to further computerize
social assistance offices. Furthermore, training is necessary to improve targeting of eligible beneficiaries.
To a considerable extent, this training should be based on the above targeting guidelines to be developed
on the basis of in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with social assistance staff, social
workers, poverty assessment experts and selected beneficiary households.
Action program
85            During project preparation, a dialogue has been initiated with the Department of Welfare
of the Riga City Council to facilitate actions to strengthen the allowance program. Complementary to the
78



Riga district heating project, assistance is being proposed to upgrade the effectiveness of the allowance
program. Activities will be coordinated with actions of the Bank's social protection team in order to
develop compatible strategies in pursuit of a joint overall social assistance approach.
86           To the extent that privatization of apartments advances, the need to protect low-income
households will increase because enforcement practices of Riga Siltums and private housing management
agencies would be expected to be more strict than those of municipal housing maintenance organizations,
at present. Improved coverage of the current allowance program will also allow municipal housing
maintenance organizations to implement a more rigorous enforcement of payments for utility services
from  better-off households.  More effective social assistance in conjunction with strengthened
enforcement of payments for utility services from better-off households will, in addition, facilitate a more
rational use of financial resources of the City. Funds currently used for covering utility debts of better-off
households will decrease while the funds used for allowances to low-income households will increase.
VII. HOUSEHOLD BUDGETS AND CHARGES FOR HOUSING AND UTILITIES
Overview
87           Household expenditure for district heating amounts, on average, to 32.8%  of all
household expenditures for housing and utility services, household expenditure for hot water amounts to
8% of all expenditures for housing and communal services. Expenditure for district heating is the largest
of all expenditure items for housing and communal services. On average, all expenditures for housing
and utilities as a share of total household expenditures amount to 22.12%. Households in lower
expenditure quintiles spend more for housing and communal services than households in higher quintiles.
On average, food expenditures as a share of total household expenditures amount to 38.45%. In absolute
terms, lower-income households spend much less for food than higher-income households. In relative
terms, higher-income households spend less of their total expenditures for food than lower-income
households. On average, expenditures for housing and communal services as a share of non-food
expenditures amount to 35.2%. Mean expenditures for housing and utilities as a percentage of mean
expenditures for non-food goods and services are higher for households in lower expenditure quintiles
than for households in higher quintiles. Households in the bottom quintiles use most of their expenditures
for food, housing and utility services. Households in the top quintiles are able to use a large share of their
expenditures for goods and services that are neither food items nor charges for housing and utilities.
Expenditures for housing and utilities
88           On average, households spend for district heating 23.1 Lats or approximately 7% of their
total expenditures (see Chart 3() and Chart 31 below). For hot water, they spend 6.1 Lats, on average, or
about 2% of their total expenditures. Expenditure for district heating is the largest of all expenditure
items for housing and communal services, followed by expenditures for transportation (11.3 Ls/3.4%),
telephone (7.7 Ls/2.4%), housing (7.5Ls/2.3%) and hot water (see Chart 30).
79



Chart 30: Mean household expenditure per month for different services,
Lats
25. 0
20.0 
15.0                ~
10.0                                 t m
0.0
'o         ws    ,MOwt>e    eXeoS G>GX\eN4  \
Chart 31: Mean household expenditures for housing and utilities as a percentage of
total household expenditures
8
7                         a    SXXl
5~ _g    0            S       $ X  
2                              8
80



89            Average household expenditure for district heating amounts to 32.8% of all household
expenditures for housing and utility services. Average household expenditure for hot water amounts to
8% of all household expenditures for housing and communal services. Chart 32 below shows mean
household expenditures for housing and different utility services as a percentage of total expenditures for
these items.
Chart 32 - Mean household expenditures for housing and different utility
services as a percentage of total expenditures for these items
Bectricfty 6    Gas 2.7     Cable1V 1.5      Coal, etc.
Water&Sew erage                                       0.3       Heating
6.2
MF,c utility servicesA .
6.7
Hot w atere
8.4
Housing                          -Transport
10.3                  Telephone                       15.5
10.6
90            On average, all expenditures for housing and utilities as a share of total household
expenditures amount to 22.12%. Households in lower expenditure quintiles spend more for housing and
communal services than households in higher quintiles. For example, households in the bottom quintile
spend 40.35% of their expenditures for housing and communal services, households in the top quintile
spend only 14.1% of their expenditures for housing and comrnunal services. Chart 33 below shows,
based on data for expenditure quintiles, the relationship between expenditure levels and expenditures for
housing and utilities as a percentage of total household expenditures.
Chart 33: mean household expenditures for housing and
utilities altogether as a percentage of total household
expenditures by expenditure quintiles
45E 
40*.  i                i  
91            Lower-income households spend a much larger share of their expenditures for district
heating and hot water than higher-income households. For example, households in the bottom
expenditure quintile spend 15.9% of their expenditures for district heating and 3.2 % for hot water,
81



whereas households in the top quintile spend only 6.3 % of their expenditures for district heating and 1.8
% for hot water. Table 1 and Chart 34 below show the relationships between expenditure levels and
expenditures for housing and utilities based on data for expenditure quintiles.
Table 1 - Mean household expenditures for housing and different utilities
as a percentage of total household expenditures by expenditure quintiles
Municipal Services      Quintile 1 Quintile 2 Quintile 3 Quintile 4 Quintile 5
1. Heating                 15.9      9.9        8.8       6.3       3.7
2. Transport               3.5        4.2       2.9       3.7       3.2
3. Telephone               3.4        2.9       2.7       2.3       1.8
4. Housing                 4.8        3.2       2.5       2.2       1.4
5. Hot water               3.2        3.1       2.2       1.8       1.0
6. Misc. utility services  2.5        2.2       2.0       1.5       0.8
7. Water & Sewerage        2.7       2.1        1.6       1.3       0.8
8. Electricity             2.5        1.7       1.6       1.3       0.8
9. Gas                      1.5       1.2       0.7       0.5       0.3
10. Coal, etc.             0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1       0.1
11. Cable TV               0.4       0.4        0.5       0.3       0.3
82



Chart 34- mean household expenditures for housing and different utilities as a
percentage of total household expenditures by expenditure quintiles
0    80
Qirtile2    -                  2             -p 1       s or
Qintsile3 *   #                                       81t?Q 40Stt  we
6Llntile4  -, v        ----                    4 '% is s
6ujrtile5     i                 0/fj-~  es Act
C01010~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
4v
Food, non-food, and total household expenditures
92             On average, food expenditures as a share of total household expenditures amount to
38.45%. In absolute terms, lower-income households spend much less for food than higher-income
households. In relative terms, households in quintiles 1 - 3 spend, on average, similar amounts for food
whereas households in quintile 4 spend slightly less, and households in expenditure quintile 5
considerably less of their total expenditures for food than quintiles 1 - 3. Chart 35 below shows mean
monthly food and non-food household expenditures by expenditure quintiles, and Chart 36 shows mean
monthly expenditures for food and non-food items as a percentage of total household expenditures by
expenditure quintiles.
83



Chairt 35 - Mean monthly food and non-food
expenditures by quintiles, Lats
700
400
300  !   -_
200
0
Quintile 1   Ouintile 2    Quintile 3    Quintile 4    Quintile 5
ml food expenditures U non-food expenditures
Chart 36-Mean monthly food and non-food expenditures
as a percentage of total household expenditures by
1000%            ~~~~quintiles
100%
70%                          -
60%
40%
30%
20O                       X_
10%
Quintile 1   Quintile 2   Quintile 3   Quintile 4   Quintile5
9 food expenditures E nonfood expendiures|
_~~~        I --  -_ -_       _d~r]
Linkages among expenditures for food, non-food items, and housing and utilities
93             On average, expenditures for housing and communal services as a share of non-food
expenditures amount to 35.2%. Mean expenditures for housing and utilities as a percentage of mean
expenditures for non-food goods and services are higher for households in lower expenditure quintiles
than for households in higher quintil[es (see Chart 37 below). For example, mean expenditure for housing
and utilities as a percentage of mean expenditures for non-food amount to 69.21% in the bottom quintile,
whereas mean expenditures for housing and utilities as a percentage of mean expenditures for non-food
amount to only 21.9% in the top quintile.
84



Chart 37 -Mean expenditures ior housing and utilities as
a percentage of mean expenditures for non-food goods
and services
70.00 
60.00v v    
40.00i}        v                      C 
10.00 '.._s ,
Quintile 1 Quintile 2  Quintile 3 Quintile 4  Quintile 5
94             Households in the bottom quintiles use most of their expenditures for food, housing, and
utility services. The poorer the households are the less they have money left for goods and services other
than food, housing, and utility related items. By contrast, households in the top quintiles are able to use a
much larger share of their expenditures for goods and services that are neither food items nor
expenditures for housing and utilities. The better off households are the more they have money left for
goods and services other than food, housing, and utility related items. Households in the top quintiles
have even more money for non-food expenditures other than housing and utilities because their food
related expenditures as a share of their total household expenditures decrease considerably in comparison
with households in lower expenditure quintiles as seen above, Chart 36. Charts 38.1 to 38.5, below, show,
based on data for expenditure quintiles the relations between expenditure levels and expenditures for
food, housing and utilities, and other non-food items.
Chart 38.1- Expenditure quintile 1: Mean          Chart 38.2- Expenditure quintile 2: Mean
household expenditures for food and non-          household expenditures for food and non-
food as a percentage of total household           food as a percentage of total household
expenditures                                      expenditures
non-food
57%
th  non-
food
26%
85



Chart 38.3 -Expenditure quintile 3: Mean       Chart 38.4: Expenditure quintile 4: Mean
household expenditures for food and non-       household expenditures for food and non-
food as a percentage of total lhousehold       food as a percentage of total household
expenditures                                   expenditures
_ \   non-food   \   l l l            \         non-food
0     othernon l%
food                                            fo
3%
Chart 38.5 - Expenditure quinitile 5: Mean
household expenditures for food and non-
food as a percentage of total household
expenditures
-i___   utility
65%           otiher noh-
foodI
50%   I
95            For very poor households, non-food expenditures tend to shrink to expenditures for
housing and utilities only.  In extreme cases, the poorest of the poor may have to reduce their
expenditures for food in order to be able to pay charges for housing and utilities. Alternatively, they may
fail to pay for housing and utilities and get indebted to house owners, utility companies or municipal
housing maintenance organizations.
Income/expenditure inequality
96            Income/expenditure inequality for households in Riga is typical for transition countries.
The Gini coefficient, which measures the extent of inequality in an income distribution, is roughly 33%.
Chart 39 below shows the deviation from absolute income/expenditure equality for the Riga's population
on district heating.
86



Chart 39: Lorenz Curve of Income Distribution
1 00% .9  
90%                       Curve o
@ 80%                        absolute
n 70%                         eq uliy
60%
x
50%
0
&  40%0/-
2 30%
20%/^   Actual distribution of 
IL                                          -(expenditure/inoej
10%
0%
0%        20%        40%         60%        80%        100%
Percentage of Population
VIII RECOMMENDATIONS
97           Lack of coverage. Lack of coverage of the allowance program for housing and utility
services should be tackled through improved information dissemination to the public in general and
possible beneficiaries in particular. Also, better inter-agency cooperation, specifically with municipal
housing maintenance organizations may help increase program coverage.
98           Leaka2e. Leakage of the allowance program should be tackled through improved
targeting of eligible households. To improve targeting of eligible households, in-depth interviews and
focus group discussions with social assistance staff should be carried out in order to develop guidelines
for targeting the poor. To obtain the best possible results, also social workers, local poverty assessment
experts and selected beneficiary households should participate in the above in-depth interviews and focus
group discussions to develop targeting guidelines.
99           Application process. Procedures for applying to the allowance program should be
simplified and made more customer-friendly by reducing the need to visit various offices several times
and by minimizing the time applicants have to wait in line when they visit these offices. The time it takes
until applicants receive an answer from the allowance offices after having submitted their application
should be minimized. And scheduling of office hours should be more responsive to the needs of
applicants. Also, friendliness of allowance program staff could be improved.
100          Operational and administrative practices. To improve operational and administrative
practices of the allowance program, the following actions should be taken: (i) program rules and
regulations across city districts should be applied more uniformly; (ii) flexibility in the interpretation of
rules and regulations should be reasonably controlled; (iii) software programs used for processing and
administering applications should be standardized; (iv) communications between different social
assistance offices should be computerized; to this end, a local area network has to be established, and
additional personal computers are needed; (v) communication with other city agencies and central
87



government departments (including tax authorities, housing maintenance organizations and providers of
utility services) should be computerized; to this end, data exchange programs are required.
101          Program  obiectives.  Objectives of the allowance program have to be reviewed,
redefined or defined more clearly. This task has to be carried out based on an appropriate policy
framework.
102          Rules and regulations of the allowance program. Systematic in-depth interviews and
focus group discussions should be carried out with staff of the allowance program, local social workers,
poverty assessment experts and selected beneficiary households in order to review and adjust rules and
regulations of the allowance program. These rules and regulations should be reviewed and adjusted in
order to ease operations, make the program more customer-friendly and eliminate mechanisms that may
prevent eligible beneficiaries from applying to the allowance program.
103          Emereencv fund. An emergency fund should be established to address the restriction of
many low-income households for applying to the allowance program because they are unable to pay
accumulated debts for housing and communal services. This fund would primarily be supported by
private sector agencies in Riga as well as international agencies.
104          Staffing and training. Increased staffing is necessary in order to improve coverage of
the allowance program. Staff training is needed to ensure uniform and high quality application of
program rules and regulations everywhere in the city. Staff training is also needed in connection with
actions to further computerize social assistance offices. Furthermore, training is necessary to improve
targeting of eligible beneficiaries.
105          Information on heatine and hot water options. Riga City, in close coordination with
Riga Siltums, should provide informnation and education to Riga's households regarding advantages and
disadvantages of different heating options for different categories of residential customers. Also, Riga
City and Riga Siltums should provide information and education to Riga's households regarding different
hot water options for different categories of residential customers.
106          Cost recoverv. Riga city's housing maintenance organizations should implement a
strategy of enforcing cost recovery from households owing for heat and hot water by specifically
targeting the relatively small number of high ranking debtors whose debts account for large shares of total
household debts for heat and hot water. To provide the best possible social protection to poor households,
those households targeted for measures of enforcement should be systematically screened for social
assistance eligibility, specifically informed about the allowance program for housing and utilities and
instructed how to apply. Under conditions carefully to be determined, retroactive program coverage may
be considered.
88



Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Latvia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of May 31, 2000)
Original Amount in US$ Millions          Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                      Supervision Rating
a/
Project ID           Year      Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD     IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.  IDev Obj    Imp
Number of Closed Projects: 8
Active Projects: 9
LV-PE-8526           1995      REPUBLIC OF LATVIA            JELGAVA DISTRICT HEAT         14. 00     0. 00    0. 00      0 .20   S           S
LV-PE-34584          1996      REPUBLIC OF LATVIA            MUN. SERVICES DEV.            27.30      0.00    0.00        6.08   S            S
LV-PE-35807          1997      REPUBLIC OF LATVIA            WELFARE REFORM                18.10      0.00    0.00        7.97   S            S
LV-PE-8532           1997      REPUBLIC OF LATVIA            HIGHWAY                       20.00      0.00    0.00        2.41   S            S
LV-PE-40553          1998      REPUBLIC OF LATVIA            SOLID WASTE MGMT.              7.95      0.00    0.00        7.91   S            S
LV-PE-58520          1999      GOVT. OF LATVIA               HEALTH                        12.00      0. 00    0.00       9.70   S            S
LV-PE-55585          1999      MINISTRY OF FINANCE           STATE REVENUE SERVICE           5.00     0.00    0.00        3.89   S            S
LV-PE-49172          1999      GOVT. OF LATVIA               EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT         31.10      0.00    0.00       25.75   S            S
LV-PE-44804          1999      REPUBLIC OF LATVIA            RURAL DEVELOPMENT             10.50      0.00    0.00        5.02   s            s
a/ Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter-based system was introduced (MS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
89



Latvia at a glance                                                               9/22/99
Eurooe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   middle-
Latvia      Asia  income       Development diamond'
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                        2.4       473       908                  Life expectancy
GNP oercaoita tAtlas method. USS)                    2420       2.190     1.710
GNP (Atlas methxod. USS oPtions)                       5 9      t.039     1,557
Averaoe annual arowth. 1992-98
PoouJlat,on %)                                         -1.3       01        1.1 
Laborforce I%)                                         -1.3       06        15      G p                              Gross
per         ~              H pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-98)                               capita          .nrollmrnt
Povertv (% of ooulation below national oovertv line)l               .        .
Urban ooDulation /% of total ooDulation)                74        68        58
Life exoectancv st birth (vears)                        69        69        68
Intantrnortalitv oer.000 ivebirthsl                    15        23        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5.                                                    Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of poDulationJ                             ..       75
Illiteracv (% ofoooulation aoe 15+)                      0         4        14
Grossorimarverroliment `%ofschool-aoeoo00ulationi       96       100       103            Latvia
Male                                                  98       101       105               Lower-middile-income group
Female                                                93        99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                                     8.6        5 6       6,4
Gross domestic investment/GOP                         34.7       22 8      23 0                     Trade
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP                                51 0      47.7
Gross domest savirnos/GDP                             34.9       14 3       9.8
Gross national savinos/GDP                                       16 6      11,9
Current account balance/GDP                                      -6 1     -11.1     Domestic
Interest oavmentslGDP                                             0,4       0.3     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GOp                                                   20,0      24.7
Total debt service/exDorts                                        7.0       3.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                         8 5       6.4
Presentvalue of debt/exoorts                                     15.9      12 5
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowth)
GDP                                  3 6     -64       8.6        3.6       5.0            Latvia
GNP oer caoita                       3 0     *5.3     10.2        4,5       6.1               Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services                 0.6     13.1        6.6       7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and lnvestment(%)
t% of GDP)
Aariculture                                           18.0        5.8       4.7       T
Industrv                                              46.0       32.2      29.4    20 T
Manufacturina                                       401        22.2      20.2      0
Services                                              35:9       62.0      65.9     209                     96   97   98
Private consumDtion                                   55.3       69.4      72.7    40
General aovernment consumotion                         9.8       16.3      17.6    |GDI    - -GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                                    59.5      61.0
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
lavenaoe annual onowth)
Aariculture                                   3.7     -8.9        3.7      -4 47      I
Industrv                                      3.5    -13.1       11.7       3,9    20
Manufacturina                               3.6    -11.9       17.1       3.4      a -
Services                                      3.2     -0.5        7.5       4.7    20          94   95   96   97   98
Pnvate consumotion                            2.0     -6.1       -4.8       5.8
General aovernment consumotion                5.4      2.2        0.3       5.3
Gross domestic investment                              -5.7      20.7      11.1   -60
lmoortsofooodsandservices                              1.2        6.8      16.9             -     Exports    -   Imporlts
Gross national oroduct                        3.6     -6.3        9.0       3.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four kev indicators in the ccuntrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouc averaae. It data are missinra the diamond will
be incomolete.



Latvia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflaton (%)
Domestic prices120T
(% change)                                                                         1.200 T
Consumer prices                                 ..      ..        8.4       4.9     s
Implicit GDP deflator                        -0.3      -0.8       6.6     11.2      B000 4
Government finance                                                                  3       \_
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                   o                  _
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       40.6     41.5               93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                          .        ..       1.8       3.0                -  GDP deflator   -C  CPl
Overall surplus/detici                          -                 1.7      0.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977      1987      1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                             1,838    2.011     4,000
n.a.
n.a.                                                                              3.000
Manufactures                                                  1,548     1,627
Total imports (cit)                                             2,686    3,141     2,000
Food                                                            273      301      1O000 
Fuel and energy                                                 145      116               a      l        F
Capital goods                                                   476      609
ExDort Drice index (1995=g100)                                   102       100            9
ImoortDrice index (1995=100)                                     109       111     [         *Expots       Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                         93        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millionsl                               1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports ot goods and services                                   2,871    3,051      4-
Imports of goods and services                                   3,348    3,902
Resource balance                                                 -477     -851       o  X         1 
Net income                                                        55        54
Net current transfers                                             77        84      -4
Current account balance                                          -345     -713      -B
Financing items (net)                                            447       775
Changes in net reserves                                          -102      -63      2
Memo:
Reserves includino aold (USS millions)                           953     1.012
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$i               ..   0.01          0.6       0.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                            1,130     1,577
IBRD                                                           120       186
IDA                                                              0         0                             A 156
Total debt service                                                133       62                                     64
IBRD                                                             5        12         G. 604
IDA                                                              0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                    _  5 3 7
Official grants                                                  4         1                  _ t    
Official creditors                                              63
Private creditors                                               12
Foreign direct investment                                      335       216             F                     :637
Portfolio equity                                                 9        41                  E: 50
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     98        30      A - IBRD                     E - Bilatera
Disbursements                                                   53        82      B- IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                                             0         4      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                                       53        78
Interest payments                                                5         8
Net transfers                                                   48        70
Development Economics                                                                                                9/22199






MAP SECTION






s~~k  A'~~'  / 'Jr             ,tAftREAts         ~        LATVIA
RIGA DISTRICT HEATING
~rREHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT:
DJSTRICT HEATING TRANSMISSION
PIPELINES TO BE CONSTRUCTED
KILOMETERS~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~EELMNAE



