Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 24447
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
LATVIA
RIGA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 70310-LV)
June 26, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate as of February 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lats (LVL)
US$1 = LVL 0.645
LVL 1 = US$ 1.55
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DH           =      District Heating
CHP          =      Combined-Heat-and-Power
EU           =      European Union
EUR          =      Euro
HOB          =     Heat-Only-Boiler
IMF          =      Intemational Monetary Fund
PSAL         =      Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Michael F. Carter
Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi
Program Team Leader Carolyn Gochenour



PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
LATVIA
RIGA DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan No 70310-LV)
1.    This is the Project Completion Note for the Riga District Heating (DH)
Rehabilitation Project in the Republic of Latvia, for which a Bank loan of US$ 21.66
million and EUR 15.66 million (US$ 36.16 million equivalent) was approved by the
Board on August 1, 2000. The Project was to be co-financed by AB Svensk
Exportkredit, as arranged by the Swedish International Development Co-operation
Agency, with a loan in the amount of US$ 26.6 million. The Bank and Swedish loans
were to Riga District Heating Company "Rigas Siltums" with the guarantee of the
Republic of Latvia. The Bank's Guarantee Agreement and the Swedish Loan Agreement
were not signed and, at the request of the Guarantor (Ministry of Finance) dated May 15,
2001, the loans were withdrawn.
2.    The principal objective of the Project was to extend the life, increase the energy
efficiency, enhance conservation, and improve the reliability and service levels of the
heating system in Riga through rehabilitation and introduction of modern technologies
and materials. The Project also aimed to promote sound DH pricing policies and
practices and to support the commercialization' and development of "Rigas Siltums' for
its eventual privatization. An institutional support program included training, equipment
and technical assistance for project implementation support, assistance in the evaluation
of the applicability of two-tier heat tariffs, advice in improving the effectiveness of
Riga's social assistance program, and assistance in the evaluation of institutional and
ownership options of Rigas Siltums. The total project costs were estimated at US$ 137.6
million equivalent, including US$ 2.4 million for institutional support in form of grants.
Apart from the Bank loan of US$ 36.16 million equivalent and the Swedish loan of
US$26.6 million, Latvian commercial banks were to provide loans of US$ 17.2 million
equivalent and Rigas Siltums was to provide another US$ 50.5 million equivalent out of
its own internally generated funds.
3.    Negotiations for the proposed Bank and Swedish loans were held among
representatives of Rigas Siltums, the Ministry of Finance of Latvia, the Bank and the
Swedish representatives at the Bank's headquarters in Washington D.C. from June 1-9,
2000. The Ministry of Finance approved the negotiated Bank Guarantee Agreement on
July 5, 2000 prior to Board approval on August 1, 2000 but subsequently questioned, in a
letter to Mr. Kavalsky dated August 17, 2000, the condition in the Guarantee Agreement
that required the Guarantor to cause the Energy Regulatory Board to adjust heat tariffs on
a regular basis to allow the Borrower to recover appropriate costs and remain competitive
with other heating alternatives. As similar projects did not have such conditions, and
after concluding that the Bank could not cause the Guarantor to cause the independent
regulator to take these actions, the Bank responded in a letter to the Minister of Finance
dated October 6, 2000 that it would be willing to delete the condition in the Guarantee



Agreement through an amendment once the Loan became effective. A copy of the letter
from the Ministry of Finance and the Bank's response are attached as Annexes 1 and 2.
4.    The proposed loan was the second Bank operation in the DH sector in Latvia -
the first one being the Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project (completed in
2000). The Jelgava project substantially met the original objectives of extension of the
life and increase in the operating efficiency of the Jelgava DH system and of improving
environmental conditions in affected areas. However, the financial performance of the
Jelgava District Heating Company was poor throughout the project implementation
period. The main reasons were: (a) the dramatic drop in heat demand, largely as a result
of industries going out of business and disconnections from the DH system, (b) the
transfer to the company of an unplanned additional DH network (network of the Riga
Autobus Factory which went bankrupt) with worse conditions and substantially higher
heat and water losses, and which was not originally included in the project rehabilitation
program, (c) unplanned gas debts which had to be repaid to the Govemment at the same
time as repayment of the World Bank loan, (d) unsuccessful introduction of a two-tier
tariff system, and (e) conflicts of interest in heat tariff regulation.
5.    The lessons of Jelgava District Heating Rehabilitation Project were taken into
account in the Riga Project through the following activities: (a) involvement of all
concemed parties through a Steering Committee mechanism in the project design,
including the regulatory agency, city officials, government ministries, the national power
company and the pnvatization agency-, (b) preparation of a conservative heat demand
forecast; (c) resolution of inter-enterprise and consumer debts during project preparation;
(d) inclusion of consultancy services in the Project for the evaluation of the suitability of
a two-tier heat tariff system and for raising public awareness; (e) carrying out a social
assessment on affordability of DH services in Riga during project preparation; and (f)
inclusion of other advisory support in the Project to examine ways to further improve the
efficiency of the Rigas Siltums through restructuring and/or privatization. Apart from
this, Riga City passed a regulation limiting unjustified disconnections from the DH
system. The regulation was in accordance with the existing Energy Law and was
expected to be valid until gas tariffs, which were roughly the same for small and large
consumers, could be rebalanced to reflect the actual costs of supply to the different
consumer groups, thereby allowing for fair market conditions for DH to compete with
individual gas-fired mini-boilers.
6.     New legal acts introduced during 2000, however, posed threats and uncertainties
to the viability of the DH sector in general and the Riga District Heating Rehabilitation
Project in particular. In fall 2000, the Parliament approved changes in the Energy Law
allowing the free choice of heat energy supply before rebalancing of gas tariffs for small
and large gas consumers had been implemented. The changes in the Energy Law
required Riga City to cancel their regulation limiting disconnections from DH. This
raised concerns that DH consumers may disconnect from the heating system in favor of
the current lower-cost, gas-fired mini-boilers. The gas sector is also regulated at the
national level, but, given the power of the private, vertically integrated gas monopoly, the
lack of experienced regulatory staff and the lack of an adequate gas pricing methodology,



the rebalancing of gas tariffs for small and large gas consumers has not yet taken place.
The new gas pricing methodology should be elaborated by end-2002.
7.    On April 10, 2001 the Minister of Finance sent a letter to the Bank expressing his
concerns regarding the risks to the Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project and
referred to the recent changes in the legislative and regulatory environment as the major
factors. The key concern was the uncertainty of disconnections from the DH system in
light of changes in the Energy Law and the removal of restrictions to install altemative
heating systems in Riga. The Minister of Finance also raised concems about the
collateral to be provided by Rigas Siltums to back up the guarantee and uncertainty over
tariffs and prices of alternative fuels (e.g., gas). The Minister concluded that given the
risks presented to Rigas Siltums, the Ministry of Finance could not issue a state
guarantee. The Bank responded to the concerns of the Minister of Finance in a letter
dated April 27, 2001 stressing the need for the Government to address the unfair
competition to DH from gas prices which were below economic costs especially for small
consumers and highlighting the impact that a collapse of DH in Riga would have on
increasing Latvia's dependence on Russia for electricity. Nevertheless, the Ministry of
Finance did not include the Project in the guarantee limit of the State Budget Law for
2001, nor for 2002. A copy of the letter from the Minister of Finance and the Bank's
response are attached as Annexes 3 and 4.
8.    Rigas Siltums has informed the Bank in a letter dated November 15, 2001 that the
part of the project financed by the commercial banks is being implemented. This
involves the less risky part of the project, namely the liquidation of the central heat block
substations and replacement with individual building-level heat substation equipment
with modem control equipment. These investments have brought substantial benefits to
Rigas Siltums and the consumers, through a reduction of heat losses and better regulation
of indoor temperatures. A copy of letter from Rigas Siltums is attached as Annex 5.
9.    The Bank is continuing to address specific energy market liberalization and
related gas and DH regulatory issues under the fiamework of the Second Programmatic
Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL II). The PSAL 11 agenda includes: (i) subsidiary
legislation needed for the Public Utilities Commission to operate, which has been
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers; (ii) drafting a policy document by the Public
Services Commission outlining the principles that are to serve as basis for determining
what public services are to be regulated by the Commission and which shall serve as an
announcement of a medium-term regulatory agenda for regulated sectors; (iii) review of
the gas sector strategy to ensure it meets EU criteria; and (iv) review of the existing gas
price structure and providing recommendations on necessary adjustments. A regulatory
strategy paper has been approved by the Public Utilities Commission on January 9, 2002.
The Commission is still working on its Regulatory Charter defining the principles that
will serve as a transparent basis for the Commission's future regulatory determinations; it
is expected to be approved by the Commission by end-June 2002. The Concept for
gradual liberalization of gas sector in line with EU directives has been approved by the
Government in fall 2001. The Commission has reviewed the existing gas pricing



methodology during April 2002 and currently is working on new gas pricing
methodology to be approved by end-2002.
10.   Comments from the Borrower.on the Project Completion Note are attached as
Annex 6. The Guarantor had no further comments.



Annex 1
LATVUAS RPUDLIAS 1ANSU MD4ISMIJA
MiNSTRY OF FINANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
I SMIJJU, LV-1919. RICA. LATVLA, PHON (371)7 226672, FAX (371) 7 095503
.1~~~CA.
MIr. ,5KivlZy
Cuny Drecto fOr Latvk
Euope nd Cea Am        Rgim
The World Blank
W   sFinancial Cent
9i Floor 53 Emui Plate sr.
00- 113 Waraw, Poland
Fax 48-22 5208001
Dew M. Kavasky,
We are wrtng wit refen    to our letter dated July 05, 2000 regrding
the draft of eGuante A    eemat to the loan for Rip District Heating
ehabilition Project between Republic of Latvia and Inteaonal Bank for
Reostucto and Delpmen
We wold lik to nfom    You that after he carefu ad conscientious
revision we ave sugpsio   concening the Sectim 3.01 in thc draft of the
Ouaantee AgmentL Metoned EnBg           Regul   y Boad     (ERB) is
ind epedetate inst-tution and is not qpeuintaI    by te Ministry of
Finanee. Thereafw we are not able to inuec ERB deiions oncening heat
tarlf. In the meatime, accorng to de Eneg Law ERB shul      prescribe
tarif that cover cost of hea productionn,             opeations and
maintenance, deprecat m int    ad a profit margb
Moeovr, Reablc of Lvia is going to strgthn         dence of the
reguly instiions in the na    future. The Parliamest bas reviewed a drft
of the  Public Scrvices Regatory Law in a 2? reading According to
mentioed draft kaw the Regulatxy Council will be established by the
Parliament as an independent institution.



In co    _cton with that we uggest to delee the Secdon 3.01 from the
tex of tX Ouarntee Agzmn        We  n open to discss with You anotr
rmiwable solution tha is acceptable for both slide&
Loigforwad to positive atioetoward our suggastons.
of Finew
Sod=
70MM4~~~~~~~~



Annex 2
vwm.um                              ubgummut
w   ~   immis                        usoo   rn.me_
S      --X::--
Odsbsw 6. 2000
lW.f
Li   Latvi
R3 Lankfu-WwME ktBMk,wsLbkaiUmbJPeyj
lbr' m vmy m ah lr uwaft Wib l. Kavultady ml rnyulf oh visit wiSMP
atad Asy3 mdw. qpsd idwrns, mw he emoppsbmftlbwdbmuI .mlowf
so uhf ido &WV hRwiqheiyflAmd (MD). hf,w wl& rwpqs -
As  he w, Urn SWa Bat Owast Agesmn   theii i Ba Gnrnias
byum. I' D-bdow,i Of 1hmo Thu oinmt h saMi  an uBaIl amudw to B
inpdMsd or oiLA *==O1 ad ad. IbM esk do ba-ii Drodiis or Bam3
p t.wba docm=t To ddsb da Smlha BurnG Ba Oss  pAsiem etUr MAP Wwoud
beet I Om mapfl - uIIls Audamrub f a ChiuwAma ASwm  cmm
I= *amp be WA&*0 SW bgf ad dbeikrn of tiff"ullmus.We woul Ibmffm .4,5.
Hgt we wmlIBa.juk Cous.afmut ApmM.W0 w.'w owil fd Uri am  w b
Pleae mspImnp* Bonm haUt)&, Kavaky and rynyaI
Xr*. ~   ~     Skr*u
c2wiaapL _ RMall
AetinCorna Dnmarfr&i%m lA*wS U&iaw mw Poland
d~~~~~~~ao and a<.    AI R~a
cc Mr U%bmta, s*Cg.w         4uas
ep Jnuak , ftWv Dkaao Mm WmIdSaah



Annex 3
11-Apr- 2001 8:12    Latyia World Bank Office               No.4714  P. 2
IATVUAS    lAS      AN}        A
MSTRSY OF FINANCE OF THE REPUBLIC. OP LATVIA
t SMZSU, LV4191. ISAMIAMM7.   (71) 7 2P12, PMC (171) 7 *SOS
Mr. Michal Care
Coury Director Bo Estonia, Latvia, Lithnia and Polnd
Burpe and Central Asia Region
Iotemaol Bank for R.etrcon and Development
Re.: Intrnational Bnlk for Randtuction and Development (RD)
Loa (br Rip District heating project (Loan 7031-0 LV)
Dear Mr. Cartor,
inistry of Flnec     has rviewed Rip     Distict heatin  nihabilitadon
proJec whoa obJectve Is to opHtm      opeatonal pefrmance of disrct
hoatin    stem, iue the efficincy of hea      supply, disbUtio   lmd
consmption, improve the reliability of servies delivay, enan   neoW
conservation  md  improve        mertl cnditions of RiWps disret
heatg   ystom trugh tanmison and disibution neork           biIon
ubst       mod     o    and new tecnologie, while prootnog sound
prickag polies and commei      practies to  llow  for the compedtive
development of "RIps slitums' I sd its posible oventul pWivatian.
Total project cost we foreasted to be U8D 137.6 milion fom which
USD 36.16 millo    ae MBD loom    (USD 21.66 million and EUR 15.66
million). Whlec admtng th  gra inporxno of the Rip Ditrict beaig
rehabilitation project Misty of PFns    consides   bst the projct is
ssociated with subtan    Aia   which an chwarawizd below.
1. Previ i     the disict  eatng in Rip   rceived fte. administrative
sppot from the municipat. Abdicalon from cntalized disiict heating
serv     wa  resicted  eas     Rigp  City Counci on April 1i, 2000
pasd the reuatons No.73 "The orde of disconectionm of houses and
buolinp in Rip from tho ctlied heatin        stem, inst     local heat
sply, lquidan, r       s       and renovs on of local hadt wrces and
distribuion of now beat sources instlg permisions and regulations".
However, n December 12, 2000 Rigp City Coumcil pused new resolution
removing  oM    riCtioMs to Install an altnative heat      teom  This
will   ult in decreasing demazd for sevice of '"Kiga Sbimns".
2. ThO amendmen    to   g   tics law havc bee  drabd dth prvide for
mtgation of the con     ers' rights to hoose the   nd of ht supply.



Il-Apr. 2001  8:13   Latvia Walad lank Office                114-4714  P. 2
This can aause rapid bdici     of Rigs Siltums clit fm services of
ocnralized had aupy. ISrfir the assumpton. of Rig      Disict heati
rtehabition proect, tt the onsmpdan of bet me       g   in one heating
season Wi   raln at the amount of a last 3.6 MWh, may        not corn.
true. Ris Sitm     canot plan the maint        of all cwmt clients, the
expeience of excutio of sAmilar hating system               project in
Ielpva prove our conens,
3. Rips Sihbm    ofr the collateral of stat guaraeo    fixmd asst in
value of LVL 38.4 milionL Mre than half of this value hcluda heang
networ   and   ologi      d   es that hs low liquid      and cannot be
used ohewis tan in district hsat
4. Rips SilUm   in finandal yw  1998U1999   had h  one     loss 197%
but after xcmtng Rip Didrict hadong rcehabiton project it is pl
th   the los  pezentage wpl  decae to 17.91%. Mfnisty of Finace
belivm   that such deese of loass is insgificat and it ttie        the
proem dectvenm.
S. Th   CoUncl1 of Ener    SupWly Regulati   hu ifmed Ministy of
Finnes ta    arfs contoled by the Council ae approved for period of
3 yea. Threfo      the Council Is not able to foret to cos prices of
natural gs md hw      enry for loge      time peiod and t        prices
heavuy iu      e ftnlrss oib   of RIps SlItus.
6. Rig  Dirict hea   g rehaBUition project contains vaio  asmptions
which are doubdl:
- tho salo pdce of bea energ, te tuift    of purmhed het enorgy    d
pricem of &e i compon to yea        1999 remain consta   in the whole
projec calmilation pe od,
."Lsija      ae" maintain discounts of naural aS  pice and thi pric
does not chnge.
Taking into account all tho above-mntioned fats Rip District heing
prjet is codered to involv       substata   dagr    of risk. Therfor
Minitry of Financ   cwnt Istm the stt guarantee thugh this queton
can be reviewed if the poject is duly mvied. Howver, Ministry of
Fi:nancs  mnsin  open to    w   _cceaW  coopatio  with MERD  in othe
Prjcts.
.~t B&b
kAholster of Finance



Annex 4
noi worJt N*                                     1815 H 83g 14W.        OM 477.124
rueiAvacsLsaaRRUomSTnucfoNmoDEvUopmEnr          W_*g'. D.C. U418        CabAddM= SfTAFPAD
.OnVTWULD W.mv PMOrrAasOcTb                     UA.                         A       WAEVAA
April 27, 2001
M. Oundar Bezzins
M   rinite of Pince
Mbiniay of Pinance:
I Smnlsu
LV-1919, Rip
Latvia
Dear Mr. Berznx
Re: Rga Ditrict Heatig Rabiitatimn Projea (wL 70310-LV)
Thank you for you letter of Apil 10, 2001 ecplang ywx views on the Rip
Disict Haing Rehabit        Projct and yaw inabhty to povde a sa guarant for
the WoddBak loan to Rip& Sibm at d    tizme. We hae taken not o your position
and  gSt to hoa of your deciuo  Be_gin g with do specific roet of die _nistry
of Pnmancw in 1997, we andthe Swedi Govermet's aid aecy, Sid, had auistd
Rip. 811amad di Municpality of Rip to prepare d   ed   rehbkilto program
which we continue to blieve hs strmg economic atonae. I am attachg to this letter
a detailed respoe or enegy aff have prpae d, in conslton with Sida, to addrs
yoalr ky concans.
In oam vierw, te principal questuin s the futur dunand fur distict beating in
Risa and hence possble disconnection by conm s from th diswct heatng   stm
We see two amper to this. FItly, mo  disconnections took pace pri to 1996 and
idications    that Oi hs tabiie since then. Secondly, ps prices (poticulady far
houwhlxde) ai well beobw ecoanoni costs thus priovidin unfair compebtLonm to district:
hesting. sad undoubtedy lemding to new dicnncio.if this situad  Wtinw   to continue.
We stongly r   mniand ha    di    io be co_ected, which would involve a set of
mcotns etimy within ft Governmes purvw.
We cetaily hope that Lata wil nt alow its dstrct heng sytm to Colaps
as a result of uppnxs picing of gas Shold this happe, t Lvan elcric power
sector will also be a major victim, since its cornbined-heat-aad.power (CEIP) plants wil
no lowr be a     to ecoonmically jpxducl eectricity in th  se  of adea  heat
demuand ITheeorile,iprs Oof elctrcity fomRussiawould mst lkely displac
domestically     adecticityu    di t   oewmmentweetota         rdwyand
costly mwsm   to prv t dis
Fr2U6 WMMWUUI4MfAXPM774W



Mr. Gundaus BerLn                    -2-                         April 27. 2001
We eptb tha you are not prepard to go forward with the final m    for
the gu_gntee at this ime, ciay a*der we had peviously obtainyw r clarace of
the neotad gurnoe a_eent prior to the apprval of the loan and guaratee by our
Ehecutive Bord. Tis is also ua,       s the objectives of the Rig Disic HeaFtg
Rehabittion Pojet me fuly in keeping with the "Strgic Mcwradm of the
National Developmcnt Plan for Iatvia" rectly approved in Fbnary by the Cabiet of
Minist. Thmeoe we will now inform Rips Sitm     and Rigp City Coucl that we
intd to wixaw this loan. Should you wish to fuer I disu the issue with us, we
standready io do so.
Notittanding o    difet v        an tis proje  we lock forwd to
contiuingow cooration with the Goverment of Latvian other matts tha yo
wouldwish
Sincery,
Mihae F. are
Country Diro for Estona Lats, lithuania and Polmd
Eurpe and Centraf Asia Region
Atachment
Copied t:
Mr. Andds Bais PnM        isr
Mr Roberts Zil Speci Task Miniser for Cooperton
with ltanationd Finance Jinations
Mr. Pm  onck, Execuisve Director. Wodd Bank
Mr. Quad      Bojasa Mayor, Ri  City
Mr. Ania 7  r, Pedden, Riga Siltuzos
Wr. Aiga Melko Boad Member, IAtvenerp
Mr. P    oer Hom, Deuty D   ,ctor, Sid-Ea



Risense to the Qfutlosis Raisd by the MinAstr of nLanc
inale teddted Aprl 10,2001
1. After recdr sow an dlsonedm      an rmoe, this wil r         In dsea lng demand
for srvie dRips Situ
Since December2000. whe the resrctions n disconnects wer rexved. saoutS cuatuni
ba   dsonected f4omDH and threfoe the reuval of strictions baa bad only a minor imat
om exisit  cusm.m     hat of the casom     disconnece ftom the Rip DH system prior to
wid-1996 befoe Rig  Silm   wa eabl         beol d he s oa               m mid-1996
until 2000 wsn about 63 MW. Disconecon of inusies w    in may case due to fte dosun
of f   rpecti    induil entepis         Smfaing wih the 1997198 beatg seasn, the
diconecdon trend has stabilized ad hu not exceeded 12 MW per year. At the saw time, thee
hs been a tdency both to return to D   and to conect new b inpto DH - aroud 60 MW
ha load has been added sic 1998.
The key to ensuring that com     do not diconnct is to addres the p t disrt    in gs
prces which ar clerly too low for hous*hods, unfary ldmin    today aginst DH and por
a potential tdugat to its survival.
2. Am_lmntt to the Rawlaw tht wouldalltw comes to fely cho            ti dr
apdo_ iesui  C-# r1W  dboonneed      fr   the Rp DR eyut     Rip R 'im s esnao pln
oe n.nmnlgt ctutmer - te experIenee In Jdelga      has shown.
After the 2O reaftit the mm        to Enrg IAW still include a setence that the hamsupply
option i a municplity i defmind by the municipal developmcnt pla  Th preparato  of
mucipa developet plan involves a proce   that inludes a public deba  of the plan  Rigp's
Heat Supply Concept fmolows this procedure.
In Westemr counris, t is very unusu  that any DR comny would have a monopoly on the heat
maret in a city. This is. of couae, oly pousib  in countri  whr there is no sigtificant
diortio in netwo  fued ptices For example, in Sweden, in al cses do DH ent is  have to
crawpet  with atntve heatg opto      avalable to buidig owner. Ths fosces the DH
conyany to provide a good sevic ati conpeive price with high reliabity. To acieve a hig
market penceraon, _   is very  Istant for the DR cyauy to bhae a very wel develpd
manrken sad custom    5             sragy. With this in plac  Swaesh DH         es
bave been expnding their opea     for tho lst 20 yea in a copettive envitnmcnt
It is ouropinion that RigpsSiltomns whenimplementingthe rehabiltation proect, wfllhave aU
Iesous and capabiliti to acbieve this also in Riga, even-if the Custmer can cho  altrntive
heatin  opti  , especialy a the disDtio  i piDcg of natal    is oadjused so that lag
customen     less the sma c
The siato i1 Jendvz is vY diffm    than in Rip and should not be used a a afunucet and
argumetagait a poct in Rip. The          ct in Jdelg   was    _      duig the ealy
yeas of traion when cay lae idustin al     rp      wemt bakrupt and tf DH seC lost
largeh     loads In additio  te Jelpva DIH system was not befg frm  lower pries for
bulk bea from its CP plant, as Rip is exected to wben its receie bwer prices for bulk heat
when larger quanides am purased fiom the CHP plants m te futur as a resut of the pret
investments. Furtmoe in Rip. at this time. the decrease of beat demand as a rlmk of



declining     _       of iduse has ak  y te place ad father r     ion of bea demnd
is maly         I from ener  con m-vationnaauz  pardy suppttd tdthe        et Te
futher rdutm of hea demand resating hem enery consrvawm inns bas been fiwtored
into the anys for the prjec  Beyond Ibis, further decm ein ht dand ar not eqpced
so long  hoe demand s not affected derinutly by uair pricing of hat alrnatives such as
-fed ninioil
The    stence of a DH syaen Rip is inport   to th city of Rip au well athe Lavian satI
A substantml port  (abot 20%) of dectcity i Lata is geneaed in Rip's two ClP plats,
and if the Sta  nd the City of Rip ane not enbli  the noml developmet ad cotinued
operation of a DH system. thetbmal load for the CHIP Plant would disappear. Latvia would
then bavs to impxt aote 1,20   Wh to 2000 GWh of electicity per yea frm aroad, likely
becoming subsntialy    ret dependn on Rusia for electicity iqpmtL Fuhe, dis inponed
electicity would Hkely be  eexpeaive as thar woud nt be doms    ico
3. Rips Slt        f dur the c uRal d Its fixed ase_ which ha le lqdit   a   anot
be used for anyding etr tbanDR.
Whetl   .d the Minisy of Fnae requies coaal from a publely-owned compny is an
inund mett, and we wi allow Rigu Sitam ad Rip City t rply.
4. In 1996/99 RIps Sll... ha     eatm     k.  of 19_97% but aftrf  Rip DH Projet
I husm       i, Uw le m      11peted to be   oly 1791%, whIh    a huigukent andi
dhwwunsts           -prectqffMUaM.
The pdnry objetv of pje etwork ivstns is to eoomicly optim               de dist
beating sysem rther then tareng hat loss per w. However, the appopriate measr of lues
iS the absolut roductio expected dud to the project, which is from 867,000 (cdlya in 199Vg99
to abou 72600    I G /yeayby 2005/06, rren- tg a savins of 16%.
The Prjc iwasnat include sme 140 bnof new DH network secios for the main network
The pwpose of the pipe investmut is primily to: (1) allow for eat load ipatch to TEC 2 by
conascting new mainetwork connecis ilding the river mmosmir, (2) allow for aes
PreIsetly supplied by inffciew coa-fired bWe  to be connected to ft main network; and (3)
replac leaky and conod  sectiom in the main network to a   cousmi   Further the pu ect
wi replce corde and laky four-pipe sysm       in the secnday network with twoipe
xsytem wheom replacemt of group beat sobtaons with idival buding ha    subs       is
foreseeL
The expaed 16% hea loss reduction is subtni      Exprsi   this a a % of han suply
(19.6% and 17.9% repecvely) yields wha only appsto be a mino    u redo  as the  ount
of esmed he     sply in 20    6 is significany lower dt   in 199S/9. Hea losses cold
technically be reduced m    ff Rips Sitam wae to install mrre new pipe  but this is not
planned   the aalysis clealy inctes tt ts is ueconomia due to the. high cost of new
piping.



5. Mhe 1    p Regulatoy Bonrd (3R) can approve ards for up to 3 yea      but cannot
forcai prle. of S      nd but enV for laerIO period but te       price lhu    e the
ftinnIa r    u sRigu Sltumo.
The fac dua dte  E  is consaind by leiatn ony      approve tariffs for up to 3 years does
nt preclude estimation of tariff fbr a longer period. What i importat, thedefw, is the
legilati  ba    for setmg taffs, which should eflect atua co   of supply. If both gas pices
and beat tars am eaisbhed by IRB at level that reflect the actual cost of spply to the
diffirnt catgMies Of conm   s Wiwhout crss-sbsidies, then DR can cowmpe  with  s-fired
miniboilers tO a level paig field and it is not necsay to predict the atual prc  of these
two commditi     over log    periods of tm  beyod 3 year     Rias Sume' financial
pefoance is snitive to die reatv pries of sOa and large gas consu     and tefor it is
very imp   nt to addeu tbe amentdiso       in thesbctreigas price
6. Ih prqjec anlss contan       -m doubtul                          )     retal heat
tarith, the bulk hlat 1arib and t  prices of huel           d ovr 1999 1y tfr Xbs
who. project period; m     (b) Latrija Gm  umltaln dbwons of 1ntra ps prc and
this price ds not change.
(a) TI Bak's Poject Appaisl Docunt includos the resla of the financial ayds of Rigas
S;tms in a highly sambizd standrd fmtL        The dotiled asumptio     and reults are
presnted m a separae Project hlplanentao Plan which Rips Sitm can provide
Regading te bulk heat tarifhe fnancial foeast aumes that te bulk beat taff for heat
pumcases frmm Latvene*D's CHP plan  would not increase for the next 3 years in acc e
with the             reached with 1vuego, which ha m    tained its bulk heat taiff at the
Sam  level duing te proect paqiprti  peiod. It is in Latyetter's interst to keep the buk
heat tariff fom increasing to  ointi the competitives of district haig and its maka,
which alows the eleccity producon in its CHP plants to continue In t  year 200Iho it is
assumed that L*vergo aveap bulk h      taiff would decrease by 8% to Li 829ca from
Ls 9.05Gcal today, s higher qunlu of heat we purchasd as a resut of the pojecL  Afker
that, the bulk heat udff would increase in lin with the  _cas  in ne;aioma fuel prices.
Regrding fud p      the,  finnca fecsI assmes ha fwl pri    in Latvia widm incasmm  in lne
with inteSatinal fuel prices The pne-s of ps, n* coal, liSht fue oil and wood chips ae al1
asumd to increas over the project period in the financial forecast, in ie  i  exp ed
incresein itaIona fuel pric
Regardng      lh    t t , Rigu Sit     peviously applied for approval of a retail heat taiff
for the upcoming 3-year peiod which would be approximately the sa  as in the previous
*several yes (Ls ILIlIleal inl     VAI). This evel of tariff Is judpd to be suflicieut to
enable the cmpny to cover its costs of opraon ba   on the estimed svinp being achived
throgh the invesets now angoing. Tb vings in the coa of pumhad beat ang with the
aving resuing fnom t   prjct invstm   s, are expected to lead to reductn in Rips Siltms
cost of operadon, so that the rtil be trfs would not incee sificantly fhm today's level
m the   years Begin      m year 2005M6, i   retl bea taff increases would be required
starting with Ls 18I S/Ocal in 200506 and increasing up to La 18.2510a1 by 2W7108.
The gas prices assumed in the financial analysis wae rvised ow ards ftr loan e a
to rflect the suatoo at that time and wer as folows: IA 5211000 m3 in 2000101. LI52/100m3



in 200W2, La S2riOoom3 in    .f      I; s2.871o00.3 m 2003om 4  S3.75s0a0m3 in
2004/5, I  54A2fW0O3 In 2005S    la SS.10lOO03 in 2006  and L55.7911000Q  in
2007A08. Since A    2001, Rips Silmu b  bomn payig  53.6(1O00.3 far gs, which is
now above the cxuqudig figme rd In ti finaca fae       TbmfIan, tie facut shud
be rvied to reflect t  guPs pic        However, the piar financial freaca  e
signay hWgh gSu priCe, ig        f    LA 55.5111000.3 in 2W0Ol to LI6.551000.3 in
2007/s and the im Xct  theretail bot tuiFE was s, Rqringoly digh9ly  1  rff.



Annex 5
1     RIGAS SILTUMS
PWN Fr4IOK LV_ 4000nM
CJ EA MA. ^* M412
M~A 73t7m PNIUL W=75
RIA     WORLD BANK
WEIM21 NFL         LM.               wdoo/o
SewerPimRnuldl Arwlyat
____NFL_        ___  ___              S SH   Oh  st ".W .
WZaRmblNgn DC 20WS U.S.A
Door Ladle. and Genwremen
We am peed    hb hit AS F                _id the blt NWdthmoZM
b,poebri for Riug..SlmPiu  anmewd the key elmet of fte FOP DIStIC HeaIn
Rehsb   F i Pdj.a 185 block subeolwu  od by Rips Sibm  ha been
domd dn wid hwve bee mpheed by 2900 meodm en  dMdul aOld
coumumer   _ i*elhn. wgg modem conoa .qu4mwL We hoe Iqukldld the
mooktd domeco hat war plph lb  h wffh l lengrh od 139 IMdn
The bwmtlcn at modem Incdual ujbdon hI a b1 mube of buldnp In Righ
b a sekIous  l both lo the cusomes and the dsiCt he1ig co y. Te
redumtion of hoa lo_eu, hdoor dmst acordo  daind of th alsloni  ,
poselilly to olfrt co peUdov smeroe hae aidy been hiip   We oave
cpUrred DH uqftm op_rdwI pefnwom, 11      e t I lIienoy of heim
suly, hnuvsd th rWiy of uelyuc devwy vW Mowed th coupei
delcninlofRig..Sibmiskuufgthe lemibsW*lbr#forte 1hyear
We wotld lk to th* you a lw mebus of th Slw*i Cmniftes wad
com      n  for yaw enom   contbutin  the Pojeol4 In pwmiuIr, the
trmedusuiovs and  tonaipot dun th prepdn        and
_ipeeto ofiePuetX ti prpalion ofdeli tdinol epdld         ad
complet       domnle , th .waktiun of bkds All the-e e-viess hepd l
compwan to proe th mcot cou_elctlv subsem and to nk mtot
We ame goig to p ocee wilh te projepd  dmnsi  end hope on yoar-suo
We thakyou ocemagwn
Weyeuao oph
Ancs Blg sxs
PrLdojetTcmical MaeProjec Manage



21/06/2002 89:54  +371-7817363           A A/S RIGA SILTUS               Amex 6
PACE 81
+371 70I7363
R'{(( AKCiJU SABIEDRIBA
R% RIGAS SILTUMS
PVN REQ. NR. LV 40003288750
CSSU IELA 3a, MG LAV.i012
TALR. 7017359, FAICSS: 701 7383
RIGA
NR.                     World Bank Latvia Office
UZ A906 9fl   , NR.-       .           Inguna Dobraja
UZ   NR.                    ~~~~~~Country Manager
Smiliu Str. 8, RTga, LV-1162
Re: Riga District Heating Rehabilitation Project (Loan 70310-LV) - draft Project
Completion Note.
Dear Ms. Inguna Dobraja,
We have received Riga District Heabng Rehabilitaffon Project draft Project
Completion Note for our infofmation and revue.
Notwithstanding that the project has been withdrawn from the lending program
due to different views on this project, we would like to thank you and all the
specialists of the World Bank who were involved in the project for enormous
contribution in the Project, in particular, the tremendous administrative and
insfitutional support duning the preparation and implementation of the Project.
We are pleased to inform that AS Rigas Siltums has completed the first and the
most important for Rigas Siltums Phase and'the key elenent of the Riga District
Heating Rehabilitation Project. 185 block substations owned by Rigas Siltums
have been closed down and have been replaced by 2900 modern individual
automated consumer substations with modem control equipmnt We have
liquidated the assoaated domestc hot water Pioelines with total length of 136
kilometers.
As the result we have opurmizea uti system operational performance, increased
the efficiency of heat supply, -improved the reliability of service delivery what
allowed the competitive development of Rigas Siltums keeping the tariffs stable
for the fifth year.
We are proceeding with the project Implementation, and look forward to
continuing our oooperation in future projects.
We thank you once again,
Sincerely,
Hugo Pawvuls
Financial Director















IMAGING
Report No.:         24447
Type:      PCN



