Report No. PID6961
Project Name                     Latvia-Riga and Daugapils District (+)
Heating Rehabilitation Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       LVPE8530
Borrower                         Rigas Siltums (Riga District (DH) Heating
Company
Guarantor                        Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency              Rigas Siltums
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           September 21, 1998, revised September 1, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         July 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             Estimated March 1, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Imported fuels and electricity constitute about three quarters of
Latvian energy supply of 190 Peta Joule (1997). District heating systems
exist in all major cities. Out of the national heat demand of 75 PJ (18,000
Tcal), district heating covers 70t including residential, municipal, and
industrial heat demands. A trend towards decentralization of heating exists,
especially within areas with developed natural gas networks.
2.      Domestic hydro power covers about 509, thermal - district heating based
- cogeneration about 20w, and imports about 30t of annual electricty demand.
Objectives
- Extend the life, increase the efficiency of, enhance conservation, and
improve the reliability and service levels in the district heating system
of Riga through rehabilitation and introduction of modern technologies and
materials; and
- Promote sound cost recovery policies and practices, support the
commercialization and development of Rigas Siltums for its eventual
privatization, and support project implementation.
Description
3.      The district heating networks in Riga would be rehabilitated by 1)
installing consumer equipment and pipe routes that would (a) allow the heat
load to be dispatched to the at present underutilized cogeneration plants,
(b) improving service levels and reducing heat demand at consumers, 2)
abating leaks by installing new preinsulated pipes, valves and other network
equipment to reduce leaks and improve the life of the district heating
assets.
Financing
4.      Estimated Project cost: Riga: US$ 130 million.    Financing would be



provided by the World Bank, the Swedish Government, the Nordic Investment
Bank, Riga Municipality and Rigas Siltums.
Implementation
5.      By Rigas Siltums with the assistance of foreign consultants. Estimated
implementation period 1999-2004.
Sustainability
6.      The project would contribute to ensuring the sustainability of Riga's
heating and hot water services through: (a) the introduction of the least
cost analysis and technologies for heat supply and optimization of the system
service areas and network configurations; (b) facilitating recovery of the
costs of services through affordable tariffs and targeted social programs for
low income groups; (c) introduction of commercial principles of operation for
the district heating enterprises; and (d) the execution of a long term bulk
heat purchase contract with the CHP heat supplier which would be a condition
for negotiations
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7.      The proposed loan represents the second Bank investment loan to Latvia
for DH sector, the first one being the Jelgava District Heating
Rehabilitation Project (effective 1995). In addition to Latvia, [Note:
Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and
other development agencies.]the Bank has implemented district heating
rehabilitation projects in Poland, China, and Estonia, all on-going. This
project would basically draw on the experience of Jelgava (Latvia) District
Heating Rehabilitation Project and Estonia District Heating Rehabiltation
Project. Both of these projects are about 909 complete, and abundant data is
available on the costs and performances of different kind of rehabilitation
concepts. Both projects also prove that the rehabilitation concepts that are
proposed in this project are cost effective and that the implementation of
the proposed project would technically be fairly straightforward.
Some of the lessons learned to-date include: (a) strong project ownership and
advanced preparation of project components is necessary for timely
implementation, (b) decentralized project management arrangements work far
better than centralized arrangements, (c) the relationship between prices and
incomes changes rapidly in countries in transition and the heating service
which appears largely unaffordable will become easier to afford in relatively
short period of time, (d) end-user efficiency improvements, which initially
appear difficult to support due to building ownership and affordability
reasons, may be possible to support on a pilot level, (e) there is the
possibility to redress the financial difficulties of DH companies during
project preparation through tariff increases and settlements of arrears by
major debtors, including households, and (f) strong support from
municipalities is needed to resolve collections and payment issues. These
lessons have been considered during the preparation of the proposed project.
Poverty Category
8.      N/A
Environmental Aspects
9.      It may  be possible that asbestos is found in the old thermal
insulations that are subject to rehabilitation. All new insulation materials
that is used in the proposed project would have ozone depletion factor zero
(no Freon blown polyurethane).
10.     Environmental category of the proposed project has been proposed to be
- 2 -



"B", because implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have
positive environmental benefits through reduced atmospheric emissions. The
consumption of natural gas and mazut in heat only boilers and separate power
production in power plants for the same service levels would be reduced,
because the project would increase cogeneration of heat and electricity from
the same fuel, and additionally, reduce losses in heat distribution and
consumption. The proposed project would lead to an absolute reduction of fuel
usage (gas, mazut) and reduction of water losses in the DH system. According
to the preliminary estimates, the project would result in reductions of S02
by 5,300 tons, NOx by 1,100 tons, and C02 by 540,000 tons, respectively per
annum.
Program Objective Category:   EN         (Energy)
Contact Point:
Carolyn Gochenour, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-9681
Fax No.:           (202) 477-0686
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 3, 1999.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-
-4-



