1ILTh3M   6J  l RESTRICTED
Report No.  PA-84b
IREP3RIS U
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COLOMBIA
June 2, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Colombia Peso (Col$)
US$1            =  Col$ 21.0
US$1 million   =  Col$ 21,000,000
Col$ 1          =  US$0.0476
Col$ 1 million = US$47,600
ABBREVIATIONS
mm   =    millimeter (1 mm = 0.039 inch)
m    =    meter (1 m = 3.28 feet)
km   =    kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha   =    hectare (1 ha = 10,000 square meters = 2.47 acres)
km2  =    square kilometer (1 km2 = 247.1 acre = 100 ha =
0.386 square miles)
mn3   =    cubic meters (1 m3 = 1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons)
ton  =    (means metric ton in this report)
=    1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
kg   =    kilogram (1 kg = 2.2 lb)
ABBREVIATIONS OF COLOM,fBIAN AGENCIES
INCORA    =    Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
ICA        =    Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
Colombian Agriculture and Livestock Institute
SENA       =    Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
National Training Service
CECORA    =    Central de Cooperatives de Reforma Agraria
=    Central Cooperative for Agrarian Reform
IDEMA      =    Instituto de Mercados Agricolas
Agricultural Marketing Institute
CAC             Cooperacion Agropecuaria del Caribe
Caribbean Agricultural and Livestock Cooperative
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



COLOIBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................   i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................    I
II.    BACKGROUND  ............................................    2
III.    ATLANTICO  STAGE I (LOAN 502-CO)  .......................    3
IV.    THIE PROJECT  AREA  ......................................    4
General  ..........................................    4
Climate  ..........................................    4
Topography  .......................................    5
Flooding  and Drainage  ............................    4
Soils  ............................................    5
Present Land Use, Agricultural Production
and Extension  ..................................    5
Farm Size and Land Tenure  ........................    6
Transportation  ...................................    6
V.    TIIE PROJECT  ...........................................    7
Description  ...........             ...........................    7
Project Works  ..........              ..........................    7
Equipment .          .......................................
Consultants  and Training  .........................    8
Cost Estimates  .........              ..........................    9
Financing, Amount and Term of Proposed Bank Loan..  10
Procurement  ...........             ...........................   10
Disbursement  ..........             ...........................   10
Accounts  and Audit  ..............................   11
This report is based on a project report and material prepared and
supplied by the Colombia Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) and its
consultants, TAHAL of Israel, and on the findings of a mission, consisting of
Messrs. J.C. Douglass, H.T. Chang, and H. Rashid, which visited Colombia
in October 1970. An updating mission composed of Messrs. J.C. Douglass,
P. Peperzak, and G. Ablasser visited Colombia in February 1972. This report
was prepared by the members of the missions.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......      ....................  11
Project Administration .......     ....................  11
Allotments to Parceleros .......     ..................  11
Supporting Agricultural Services .....     ............  12
Research, Extension and Farmers' Training ...   12
Farm Mechanization ..........................   13
Supply of Fertilizers, Seeds, and Pesticides.   13
Operation and Maintenance ........................   14
Project Charges ................................    14
VII.   PRODUCTION AND FARMERS' INCOME ......      ..................  15
Farm Types and Cropping Pattern .....     .............  15
Yields and Production .......     .....................  15
Marketing and Storage .......     .....................  15
Prices ...........................................   16
Farm Income . ......................................   16
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......      .....................  17
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................   17
ANNEXES
1.  Bank Loans to Colombia
2.   Soils and Topography
3.   Present and Future Cropping Patterns
4.   Present Size of Land Holdings
5.   Land Acquisition and Preparation by INCORA
6.   Project Civil Works
7.   Construction Schedule
8.   Consultants
9.   Cost Estimates
10.   Imported Equipment
11.   Expenditure and Disbursement Schedules
12.   Organization Chart
13.   Development Schedule
14.   Operation and Maintenance
15.  Development Projections
16.   Projected Farm Income
17.   Economic Rate of Return
MAP



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the continuation of Colombia's
agrarian reform and agricultural development program in the Department of
Atlantico, for which a Bank loan of US$5.0 million is proposed.
ii.       Colombia has maintained a satisfactory agricultural growth in
recent years. However, 3.3% per annum population increase and uneven land
distribution continue to contribute to rural poverty, exodus toward the
cities, and urban unemployment.
iii.      Loan 502-CO, which was made to the Government's Agrarian Reform
Institute (INCORA) in 1967 to develop the first stage of the Atlantico
project, was aimed at two distinct types of development: irrigation of
approximately 3,900 ha and protection from flooding of 6,000 ha to be
dry farmed. The project also included studies to be made for additional
stages of development. The proposed loan, which is based on these studies,
would complete the transformation of 17,000 ha, including the 6,000 ha
protected under Loan 502-CO, into land suitable for growing two crops per
year by dry farming. At present, the dry farm area is subject to inundation
by floods from the north and rainfall ponding on the project lands. Works
to be completed by 1973 under Loan 502-CO would protect the area from floods
while the proposed loan would provide for additional drainage and road
facilities, land preparation, and the procurement of operation and main-
tenance and farm machinery.
iv.       The total cost of the proposed project, exclusive of interest
on the Bank loan during construction, would be US$9.7 million, including
about US$2.3 million for civil works, US$1.3 million for land acquisition,
US$1.3 million for imported equipment, US$1.3 million for consulting
services, training, engineering and administration, US$1.3 million for
contingencies, and US$2.2 million for on-farm investments for dairy produc-
tion. The proposed Bank loan of US$5 million would cover the estimated
foreign exchange costs of civil works, imported equipment, consulting services,
training and contingencies, amounting to approximately US$3.4 million,
interest during construction of US$0.9 million, and US$0.7 million for local
currency expenditures. The remaining costs would be met through Government
budgetary allocations. All tendering for civil works and equipment would
be on the basis of international competitive bidding.
v.        INCORA would acquire land in the project area according to
Agrarian Reform Law provisions, develop it, and allot it to smallholders
in 8-ha farm units. With help from other Government agencies and consultants,
it would introduce new cropping patterns and mechanized dry farming practices.
It would also arrange for farmers to receive fertilizers, seeds, pesticides,
machinery, credit, and marketing services.



- ii -
vi.       The future net production value of the 17,000-ha project is
estimated at US$3.15 million annually, compared to about US$0.6 million
without the project. Farms devoted to general crops would reach full
development within five years after the allotment is made and dairy farms in
nine years. The rate of return to the economy would be about 23Z. Export
of confectionary-type groundnuts would contribute US$130,000 annually to
foreign exchange earnings at full production. Other products would be
consumed within the country.
vii.      As required under Loan 502-CO, INCORA is making a study of farmers'
repayment capacity and would also make proposals to the Bank on a recovery
policy for the proposed loan. Farmers should be able to pay at least
operation and maintenance costs and make a significant contribution towards
recovery of the investment.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$5.0 million for a
term of 25 years, with a grace period of six years. The borrower would be
the Government of Colombia. All proceeds of the loan would be passed on
to INCORA on the same terms as the Bank loan with the Government assuming
the exchange risk.



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Colombia, through its Institute of Agrarian
Reform (INCORA), has requested a Bank loan of US$5.0 million to assist in
financing the second stage of Atlantico Project (Stage II), a land develop-
ment program.
1.02      The first Atlantico Project is being financed by a Bank loan
signed in 1967 (Loan 502-CO). It consists of the development of 3,900 ha to
be irrigated and 6,000 ha for dry farming. Stage II of the project, which
is the subject of this report, would include drainage and road construction
and an increase in the dry farming area to 17,000 ha. Since all works
needed to protect the dry farm area are interrelated, they are described in
this report as one unit, even though they are in part financed under Loan
502-CO. Details of works being executed under Stage I are presented in
Chapter III.
1.03      Including Atlantico Project Stage I, the Bank has made five loans
for agricultural development in Colombia in the last six years, totaling
US$69.1 million. The other four projects are discussed in Annex 1, and
summarized below:
(a) Loan 448-CO (May 1966, US$16.7 million) and Loan
651-CO (December 1969, US$18.3 million) were made
for livestock development. Because of an unsatis-
factory investment climate and failure on the part of
the Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(CAJA) to provide sufficient short-term financing,
delays in disbursement of both loans have occurred.
The undisbursed balance of US$3.2 million of Loan 448-CO
was cancelled, effective February 9, 1972, while progress
of disbursement of Loan 651-CO is kept under close
review.
(b)  Loan 624-CO (June 1969, US$17 million) finances a four-
year supervised credit program of INCORA to improve
productivity on about 2,500 medium-sized farms in the
Departments of Tolima and Valle. Policy changes of
INCORA concerning beneficiaries under the agrarian
reform program may lead to major restructuring of the
project. Pending these changes, progress has been slow,
and only US$2.4 million had been disbursed as of
May 31, 1972.
(c) Loan 739-CO (May 1971, US$8.1 million) for the Caqueta
Land Colonization Project is proceeding on schedule and
a substantial number of farm credits are being made.



- 2 -
1.04      In 1967, a Bank mission reviewed INCORA's operations in Colombia.
The mission's findings indicated that irrigation projects had been over-
emphasized in the investment program and that priority should instead be
given to less capital intensive projects such as land settlement and colo-
nization schemes. Recent Bank operations in the agricultural sector have
followed this strategy.
1.05      The project was appraised in October 1970 by a mission consisting
of Messrs. J.C. Douglass, H.T. Chang, and H. Rashid. Negotiations took place
in April 1971. However, Government approval of the loan documents was delayed
pending its review of the INCORA's priorities in irrigation and settlement
projects. An updating mission composed of Messrs. J.C. Douglass, P. Peperzak,
and G. Ablasser visited Colombia in February 1972. This report is based on
material and reports prepared by INCORA and its consultants, TAHAL (Israel)
and the findings of the two Bank missions.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Agriculture accounts for 29% of GDP and provides about 44% of
Colombia's employment opportunities. In the last few years, the annual
output growth rate of GDP has substantially improved, rising from 3% before
1957 to 5.3% since 1967. The output of coffee, a major export, has been
deliberately restrained by taxation, because of the long-term surplus
situation. Among the products involved in recent growth are cotton, soy-
beans, sorghum, sugar, rice, potatoes, and cassava.
2.02      The growth of noncoffee products is reflected in more diversified
earnings: non-coffee farm exports increased from US$24 million in 1960 to
US$150 million in 1970 and now account for 27% of agricultural export
earnings. Agricultural exports amounted to 85% of total exports in 1970.
2.03      In spite of an improved growth rate, however, Colombia's agricul-
ture is still beset with some serious problems. Output has grown through
expanded acreage rather than through yield improvements; production costs
are high because of inefficient techniques and inadequate production and
distribution of modern inputs. A 3.3% per annum population increase and
uneven land distribution continue to cause rural poverty, exodus toward
cities, and urban unemployment.
2.04      In recent years, the Government has introduced policy changes that
have resulted in some increase in agricultural outputs: more credit has been
made available to farmers on a supervised production basis; support prices
for a few crops were instituted; and research and extension efforts have
been stepped up.
2.05      In 1961, the Govcrnment adopted a land reform policy to correct
the inequitable land situation and establiuhed INCORA to implement the
program. It empowered the new agency to acquire large land holdings,
develop the land, and redistribute it in smallholdings. INCORA also became



the Government's major agency for agricultural development and has underway
a large program for flood protection, drainage, and irrigation.
III. ATLANTICO STAGE I (LOAN 502-CO)
3.01      In 1967, the Bank made a loan of US$9.0 million to INCORA for
the first Atlantico Project, under which two distinct and separate efforts
were contemplated. One concerned development of about 3,900 ha for
irrigated farming (Part 1), while the other was aimed at improving 6,000 ha
for dry farming by providing drainage and protection from floods (Part II).
3.02      The irrigated farm area was originally divided into two separate
Blocks (I and II) on the basis of their location, soils and irrigability.
Deletion of unsuitable land from Part I necessitated inclusion of an
adjacent area known as Block III early in the project. Implementation of
the irrigation phase is behind schedule by about two years, mainly because
the specific lands to be provided with irrigation had to be redefined;
construction conditions at the irrigation and drainage pumping plants were
very poor; and rainfall was heavy, which caused high water conditions in
the Magdalena River and interfered with construction activities. Irrigation
service in Block I will now commence in 1972 and in Block III about October
1972. Irrigation of Block II is expected to be postponed for an indefinite
period because of excessive salinity and alkalinity conditions. The total
area to be irrigated would be reduced to about 3,000 ha.
3.03      Work on protection of the dry farm area was delayed pending
completion of plans for the future stage of the project to insure that
works constructed would be fully compatible with the development of the
second stage. The flood protection plan now adopted has three elements:
(a) streams entering the project area between Guajaro Reservoir and Manati
are to be collected in an elongated reservoir that would have its outlet in
Guajaro Reservoir; (b) streams between Candelaria and Manati are to 'e
collected in the improved Sabalo Swamp, there to be evaporated or released
at controlled rates into the drainage system; and (c) streams east of
Candelaria are to be intercepted and diverted into the Magdalena River by
a combination of channel and storage works. Construction of these works
commenced in September 1971 and should be completed late in 1972. Additional
flood protection and drainage works required in this area would be constructed
under the Second Atlantico Project.
3.04      In spite of the fact that there is no effective flood control yet
in the project area, fair progress has been made with the introduction of
improved methods of dry land farming in Part II of Stage I. About 3,000 ha
are now under production, of which over 80% is double cropped. Besides the
traditional crops of sorghum, sesame, and cotton; soybeans, groundnuts and
tomatoes are also grown. In 1971 about Col$ 16 million worth of cash crops
were marketed through the projects' Cooperative, as compared to only Col$ 3
million four years ago. As of May 31, 1972, US$4.1 million, or 46%, of Loan
502-CO had been disbursed.



- 4 -
IV.  THE PROJECT AREA
General
4.01      The project is located in the southeast portion of the Department
of Atlantico in the north of Colombia, approximately 60 km southwest of the
Caribbean port of Barranquilla (see map). It is adjacent to and just north
of the irrigated lands of the Atlantico Stage I project (Loan 502-CO). The
overall area of the Atlantico Project is about 37,000 ha. The irrigated
portion is about 3,900 ha, approximately 22,200 ha have been identified
as suitable for dry farming, and the balance is considered unsuitable for
developmenL.  Of the 22,200 ha, rights-of-way for flood and drainage works
and roads will use approximately 2,200 ha. An additional allowance of about
3,000 ha has been made for areas which may prove too saline for permanent
use (para 5.03) leaving 17,000 ha net, including the 6,000 ha protected
under 502-CO, as the project area to be developed for dry farming.
Climate
4.02      The climate is tropical, with average monthly temperatures ranging
between 25C (77°F) and 30C (86°F).  Annual evaporation is about 2,000 mm,
while average monthly relative humidity is about 80%. Mean annual precipi-
tation approximates 925 mm and annual values range from 700 mm to 1,500 mm.
In general, there are two rainy seasons, from mid-April through June and
from August through October, with the latter the more intense. Average
monthly sunlight hours vary from 45% to 65% of the potential hours.
4.03      There are two growing seasons -- the first from April through
July and the second from August through December or later. Normally, there
is sufficient moisture in the soils to grow crops from April to January, but
yields may be affected by dry periods that sometimes last three weeks during
the regular rainy season. Review of climatic records indicates that drought
periods, intense enough to affect crop yields by as much as 50%, may occur
about one year in five.
Topography
4.04      The project area is bounded by low hills in the north (from where
the flood enters the project), the Guajaro Dam in the west, the Magdalena
River bank on the east, and the bank of Canal del Dique, or the northern
boundary of the irrigated area, in the south. Within this hydrologically
closed area, micro-relief varies from zero to about 8 m above sea level.
Flooding and Drainage
4.05      Since there is no natural drainage outlet from the project area,
runoff of the 200 km2 drainage zone to the north and precipitation on the
project area collects and ponds. The only escapes for water are by
evapotranspiration of the plant cover, evaporation from water or soil sur-
faces, or slow, deep percolation. The flooded area in any one year varies
with the intensity of precipitation and runoff. In most years, at least
8,000 ha are flooded, particularly in the October-November period.



Soils
4.06      The pattern of soils is complicated -- good ones are intricately
interlaced with bad ones. Predominant soils to be selected for development
are those in the low lands, which are bottoms of former lakes, swamps and
interconnecting waterways. They either contain no harmful salts at all or
have salt-free top soils with saline-alkaline layers in the subsoil at varying
depths. They generally have fairly heavy texture and good water-holding
capacity. Alluvial levee soils on the banks of Magdalena River and Canal
del Dique are adaptable to traditional crops. They have light to heavy
textures, but drain freely, and they contain no harmful salts.
4.07      Most of the soils on the numerous rounded ridges that divide the
low lands are impregnated with harmful salts and would, therefore, be ex-
cluded from development.
4.08      A detailed soil survey and a land use capability classification
completed by INCORA produced data adequate to delineate and exclude from
development the major areas containing saline or saline alkaline soils. Since
there are small individual saline spots mixed in with the better soils,
however, an indicator crop would be planted in an attempt to find them so
they could be excluded from the allotments as finally made. If some spots
escape detection, they may get progressively worse unless treated. This is
done by adding gypsum, deep-plowing and constructing small bunds or ridges
around the spot to pond rain water and induce leaching. This corrective
measure once applied should give permanent results. More detailed informa-
tion on soils is given in Annex 2.
Present Land Use, Agricultural Production and Extension (Annex 3)
4.09      About 11,000 ha of the lands selected for development are still
under trees and brush and 1,500 permanently inundated under swamps. Most
of the area has been cleared at one time, but land used for pasturing cattle
has numerous secondary growth of small trees and bushes. Light land clearing
work would be necessary before development.
4.10      Private cattle farms, covering a total of about 9,000 ha, are gen-
erally operated by large land owners, who graze about 4,500 head of cattle
on natural vegetation pastures. Private crop farms, covering about 5,400 ha,
are run mostly by small farmers (see 4.12). These small farms grow mixed
orchards of banana, plantain, papaya, and the like on light alluvial soils;
crops such as sorghum, sesame, cotton, maize, cassava, and pulses on heavier
bottom soils; and some rice along the Magdalena River. Crop yields are low,
however, because of the primitive method of farming practiced. Land prepara-
tion is done either by hired tractors or by hand. Without improvements to
be introduced by the project, the subsistence land-use patterns would
probably continue in use for the foreseeable future.
4.11      INCORA has provided technical assistance to farmers who grazed
some 1,750 head of dairy cattle on about 2,100 ha of private land. Extension
services are provided out of two field offices, staffed by two agronomists
and eight agricultural supervisors. In addition, five agronomists employed



- 6 -
by two private technical assistance firms advise both private farmers and
INCORA parceleros on the growing of sorghum, sesame, and cotton.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
4.12      At the end of 1971, INCORA had alloted lands to 532 parceleros
for crops and to 206 parceleros for livestock in the dry farm areas.
Parceleros are farmers selected for settlement on a parcel of INCORA land.
The term is used to distinguish them from private farmers who own land and
from landless farm workers. According to a 1964 survey, about one-third of
the farms in the project area are less than 10 ha, but occupy only 4% of
the land area. On the other hand, 14% of the holdings, over 100 ha each,
occupy 57% of the land (Annex 4). Colombia's Agrarian Reform Law gives
INCORA power to purchase from voluntary sellers or expropriate land from
privately owned estates that are larger than 50 ha (Annex 5). Each owner
is entitled to buy back 50 ha of his original holding from INCORA on two
conditions:
(a)  that he pay the same price for the 50 ha that INCORA
paid to him when it purchased the land, plus the
proportional land improvement cost incurred by INCORA
and a tax on the increased land value due to improvement;
and
(b)  that he comply with the land-use pattern recommended by
INCORA for the area.
Owners of holdings larger than 150 ha may buy back an amount of land equal
to one-third of their former holding up to a maximum of 100 ha.  INCORA
decides which 50 to 100 ha would be sold to the former owner.
4.13      The law also empowers INCORA to acquire holdings smaller than
3 ha as being uneconomic and to consolidate them into "family farm" size
units. It is not possible at this time to determine precisely how many
present owners would elect to retain their 50- to 100-ha units under project
conditions or the number of owners of holdings smaller than 8 ha that would
remain. However, it is anticipated that, of the 22,200 ha identified as
suitable for dry farming (para 4.01), about 17,000 ha (gross) would be
acquired by INCORA and be available for parcellation. The balance, or
5,200 ha (gross), would remain in private hands. Under a provision of
the Agrarian Reform Law, however, all lands (private or INCORA), included
in a development area must follow the cropping practices prescribed for
the project. Elimination of saline spots in the INCORA-acquired area
would reduce the net amount of land to be allotted to parceleros to about
14,500 ha while privately held land would total at least 2,500 ha (net) of
farmland.
Transportation
4.14      Both the Magdalena River and the Canal del Dique are navigable
waterways, connecting the area to the major seaports of Barranquilla and



Cartagena. A major highway running between the two cities passes a few kilo-
meters to the north of the project area and is connected to towns in thle
area by some secondary roads. Most of the roads within thc project are.t
are unpaved and generally impassable in the rainy season. The roads that
are gravelled are passable but subject to inundation.
V. THE PROJECT
Description
5.01      The project would complete the construction of facilities started
under Loan 502-CO, which are necessary to transform approximately 17,000 net
ha of land now periodically flooded into an area suitable for about 12,400
ha of double cropping under dry farming and 4,600 ha for dairy farming. Works
to be implemented under the project include:
(a) construction of a drainage system;
(b) construction of about 77 km of secondary and tertiary
roads;
(c) land preparation;
(d) construction of storage depots;
(e) enlargement of operating headquarters; and
(f) acquisition of approximately 17,000 ha gross and its
reallocation to about 1,800 parceleros.
In addition, the project would provide for the importation of equipment;
the extension of TAIAL's contract for consulting services; training of
IIICORA staff; evaluation of irrigation trials on the pilot farm; and the
development of dairy farms. Annex 6 provides further details of project
works, all of which would be essentially completed in 1975, except for land
preparation and reallocation, which would continue through 1977 (Annex 7).
Project Works
5.02      Five main drains, 31 lateral drains, sublateral ditches, and water-
ways, as needed, would be constructed. These drains would supplement those
constructed under Loan 502-Co and would complete the drainage network for
the 17,000 ha. In addition, four secondary roads and a number of tertiary
roads would be built to complement those constructed under 502-CO and would
provide adequate access to all parts of the project.
5.03      INCORA now owns some 5,600 ha of project lands and would purchase
all additional lands necessary for rights of way and reallocation to farmers
(Annex 5). Because of intermixture of saline areas, more lands would be



- 8 -
acquired than the net area to be allocated. All agricultural land would be
cleared of small trees and bushes, rough-leveled, and given an initial deep
ploughing. INCORA would allot the lands to parceleros only after it has been
cleared, leveled, and ploughed (para 6.02). INCORA would treat saline spots
that develop after the final allotments have been made (para 4.08). The
dairy farms would have an additional investment in dairy cattle, sheds,
fences, etc. This investment would be financed through a credit program
(para 6.10).
5.04      Five storage depots, each with approximately a 1,000-ton capacity,
would be constructed to store agricultural produce temporarily until it is
marketed. These would also serve as supply points for fertilizers, seeds,
and other inputs. Also, the operating headquarters for Stage I, centered
at El Limon, would be enlarged to handle the additional activities of
Stage II.
Equipment
5.05      INCORA would purchase vehicles for project use and equipment to
operate and maintain the project and to handle produce in the storage
depots. It would also purchase farm machinery for use by private contractors
on project lands (para 6.07).
Consultants and Training
5.06      INCORA retained TAHAL to assist in development of the engineering
and agricultural aspects of Stage I and would extend the contract to cover
consultants' services for Stage II. On the engineering side, TAHAL
would have technical responsibility for final design, preparation of tender
documents and supervision of construction. On the agricultural side, TAHAL
would assist in developing the most suitable agricultural and dairy farm
practices for the crops to be grown. Annex 8 gives a further description of
the consultants' responsibilities. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would retain qualified consultants on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.07      While top management in INCORA is competent, there is need for
more training of middle and lower management staff. INCORA staff would
receive a total of 12 man-years training under the project in the following
categories: operation and maintenance of flood control and drainage systems,
mechanized dry-farming methods, and project management. To insure that the
training is accomplished, INCORA would establish a tentative schedule of
individuals to be trained and suggest place of training, subject matter,
and duration. All this information would be submitted to the Bank for
comment within six months of loan effectiveness. Training to date on Stage I
has been carried out in Mexico, Peru, Israel, and Iran, and it is anticipated
that future training would be in similar locations as well as in Colombia.
INCORA would also seek Bank approval for each training assignment proposed
before embarking on it. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the
Government during negotiations.



-9-
Cost Estimates
5.08      Detailed project costs are presented in Annex 9 and summarized
below:
Col$ Millions             US$ Millions         %
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Foreign
Exchange
Civil Works
Drainage System        10.1      7.6     17.7    0.48    0.36    0.84        43
Roads                   4.0      3.1      7.1    0.19    0.15    0.34        43
Land Preparation'       9.9      7.5      17.4    0.47    0.35    0.82       43
Buildings               5.8      1.5      7.3    0.27    0.07    0.34        20
Subtotal Civil works  29.8    19.7       49.5    1.41    0.93    2.34        40
Land Acquisition         27.0      -        27.0    1.29       -     1.29       0
Imported Equipment        0.9    27.1       28.0    0.04    1.29    1.33       97
Consulting Services       3.6    11.1       14.7    0.17    0.53    0.70       76
Training INCORA Staff    -         2.3       2.3     -       0.11    0.11    100
Engineering and Adm.      9.0      -         9.0    0.43       -     0.43       0
Irrigation Studies        0.6      -        0.6    0.03        -     0.03       0
Contingencies
Price Increase
4% per year            3.4      2.9      6.3    0.16    0.14    0.30        47
Physical 15%           10.6      9.0     19.6    0.51    0.43    0.94        47
On-Farm Investment
for Dairy Farms         46.6      -       46.6    2.22        -     2.22       0
Total Project Cost   131.5    72.1    203.6    6.26    3.43    9.69          35
5.09      Cost estimates of the main drains are based on field surveys
from which final designs were prepared.  Secondary drain costs are based on
a detailed estimate of a sample area. Road costs were estimated on the basis
of the average cost per km of the various categories of roads. Unit costs
were obtained by taking the average of 10 bids received for similar work in
Stage I and indexing them to current prices. The estimates of land cost are
based on evaluation by the official organization for appraisal of Agrarian
Reform lands, the Augustin Codazzi Geographical Institute, those for land
clearing on the average of actual costs of doing the same work in the project
area in the past, and those for buildings on similar works built under Stage
I. Contingencies have been estimated as 4% per year for price increases and
15% for unforeseen. Since the Colombian peso is subject to frequent devalua-
tions which, through a complex index system, leads to upward revisions in
contract prices, it is difficult to forecast increases in local prices. All
price increases are therefore calculated in terms of dollars only.
5.10      Foreign exchange components for civil works have been based on
the same studies as those used for making similar estimates for Loan 502-CO.
Estimates for equipment were made using CIF costs Barranquilla (Annex 10).



- 10 -
The foreign exchange component of consultants' fees was derived from their
contract under 502-CO, in which 75% of such fees are paid in foreign exchange.
Financing, Amount and Term of Proposed Bank Loan
5.11      The proposed Bank loan of US$5.0 million would be used to finance
the estimated foreign exchange component of civil works, the CIF cost of
equipment, the foreign exchange costs of consultants and training of INCORA
staff abroad, interest on the Bank loan for the five years of the main
construction period estimated at US$0.9 million, and about US$0.7 million of
local currency costs. The balance of the local currency requirements would
be provided under Government budget. The additional investment to establish
the dairy farms would be made by the individual dairymen utilizing super-
vised credit from INCORA. The term of the loan would be 25 years, with a
six-year grace period. The grace period corresponds to the period of
construction. The borrower would be the Government of Colombia and it would
make the loan available to INCORA on the same terms as the Bank loan to the
Government, except the Government would assume the exchange risk.
Procurement
5.12      International competitive bidding procedures would be followed in
letting contracts for civil works for drainage and roads (US$1.18 million),
land preparation (US$0.82 million), construction of buildings (US$0.34
million), and purchase of equipment (US$1.33 million). Even though civil
works for roads and drains would be grouped into no more than four contracts,
it is doubtful whether foreign contractors would be attracted because of
the relatively small quantity of work involved. Adequate competition is
expected, however, among sufficient numbers of Colombian bidders. Most of
the equipment, because of the type required, would be imported. However,
at the request of the Government, local manufacturers would be granted protec-
tion on bidding for equipment up to a margin of 15% or customs duties,
whichever is lower. In the event a Colombian manufacturer were the successful
bidder, his bid, net of taxes, would be eligible for disbursement. INCORA
imports are exempt from payment of customs or duties. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would let a maximum of four
contracts for drains and roads and would issue promptly import licenses for
equipment, machinery, and material to be used in the project.
Disbursement
5.13      Disbursement for civil works would be at the rate of 70% against
certificates of payments to contractors. Disbursements for equipment would
be against proper documentation of CIF costs net of taxes. Disbursements
for consultants' fees and training of INCORA staff would be on the basis of
foreign exchange costs. Any savings in the loan would be canceled on
completion of the work. A forecast of quarterly disbursements of loan funds
is given in Annex 11.



- 11 -
Accounts and Audit
5.14      INCORA's accounts are subject to continuous auditing by a
representative of the Auditor de la Controlaria General de la Republica
(Auditor's General Office), who is stationed in INCORA's office and must
approve each voucher before it is paid. Assurances were obtained from
the Government that the project accounts would be audited by the Controller
General and copies sent to the Bank within four months of the close of the
fiscal year (coinciding with the calendar year).
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Administration
6.01      Overall responsibility for all project activities would rest with
INCORA. The Institute's headquarters are in Bogota but day-to-day project
activities on Atlantico Stage I are handled out of field headquarters office
at El Limon. This office would be expanded to handle the increased work
load resulting from Stage II. The Project Director, Assistant Director, and
certain administrative functions would be the same as for Stage I. Separate
units, however, would be set up to supervise the agricultural development and
operation and maintenance work of the Stage II area. The organization of
this field office is given in Annex 12. An assurance was obtained from the
Government that it would inform the Bank on the names, experience, and
qualifications of persons considered for the post of Project Manager and give
the Bank reasonable opportunity to comment before any new appointments are
made.
Allotments to Parceleros
6.02     I1NCORA would select parceleros for the project from the villages
in the area (para 4.12).  During negotiations, assurances were obtalid
that IIICORA would select parceleros from local farmers or landless farm
workers, using criteria approved by the Bank. Each family would be given
an 8-ha plot ready for cultivation. The 8-ha unit size is chosen to enable
each parcelero family to have a minimum annual net income of Col$ 19,000,
or US$900 (para 7.05), being INCORA's target for minimum farm family income
in the project area. About 1,800 families would be allocated land over a
six-year period, with about 1,700 ha to be developed in the first year and
3,000 ha each year for the next five years, which is a pace INCORA can well
manage (Annex 13). The area developed by INCORA each year would include
land held by the parceleros as well as that held by private farmers who
have elected to retain part or all of their original holdings. The 1,800
parceleros-families include the 740 families already allotted 5,600 ha owned
by INCORA. Initially, each parcelero family would be assigned to an 8-ha
lot on a temporary basis. If the first year crop indicates that there are
saline-alkaline patches (missed by the detailed field soil survey), these
patches would be discarded the following year and replaced with new lands.
Final farm boundaries would be determined during the second year.



- 12 -
Supporting Agricultural Services
6.03      Supporting agricultural services to project farmers would be
provided through several Government agencies, under INCORA's supervision and
coordination. The main agencies involved are:
ICA       - Colombian Agriculture and Livestock Institute.
This institute has overall responsibility for
research and extension in Colombia.
SENA      - National Training Service.  This agency has
responsibility for conducting training courses
for both Government employees and parceleros.
CECORA    - Central Cooperative for Agrarian Reform.  This is
a subordinate agency of INCORA and is responsible
for administration of Cooperatives.
CAC       - Caribbean Agriculture and Livestock Cooperative.
This Cooperative, under the direction of CECORA, has
responsibility for purchasing fertilizers, seeds, and
pesticides for use by the parceleros and for guiding
them in their farm operations. All parceleros
participating in supervised credit must be members
of this cooperative.
IDEMA     - Agricultural Marketing Institute.  This Institute
is responsible for marketing all cotton production
in Colombia and assists in marketing other crops.
6.04      Research, Extension and Farmers' Training.  INCORA would be
responsible for agricultural research and extension in the project area, with
technical backstopping from ICA. Field experiments on dry farming and dairy
cattle would be conducted at the Malambito farm and findings would be
verified on pilot farms in the area before being utilized for general
extension.
6.05      Under the proposed project, INCORA would employ additional
agronomists and supervisors as more parceleros are settled and more land
is developed. It would also make use of certified agronomists from the
private agricultural technical assistance firms in the area. At full
development, there would be one agronomist for every 2,000 ha (or 250
families) and one supervisor for every 500 ha. The exact number of exten-
sion workers, however, would be flexible and would be adjusted in accordance
witlh the rate at which the parceleros can learn to manage their own affairs.
In the early years the extension workers would help the parceleros to
prepare farm plans and to determine requirements for fertilizers, seeds and
pesticides, tractor services, and credit. This system has been employed on
similar projects elsewhere in Colombia, and has proven effective in over-
coming small-holders' inertia and in getting recommended practices adopted
rather quickly. Parceleros in the area would receive training that would



- 13 -
enable them to assume responsibility for formulating farm plans, supervising
farm machinery contractors, and attending to business with the cooperatives.
6.06      To implement the above program, INCORA needs cooperation
especially from ICA and SENA. Good working relationships now exist between
INCORA and these agencies, but on an ad-hoc basis. In order to formalize
the interagency cooperation, assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that within one year from the effective date of the loan,
INCORA would have drawn up and sent to the Bank for review prior to imple-
menting:
(a) an agricultural research and extension program,
spelling out specific actions that INCORA and ICA would
each take to insure provision of adequate technical
information to the project; and
(b)  a training program for Atlantico Stage II farmers,
prepared jointly by INCORA and SENA.
6.07      Farm Mechanization.  Nine private contractors now provide custom
tractor services to farmers both in and outside the project area. Their
activities are closely supervised by INCORA and CECORA. To meet the project
needs, additional farm machinery (about 100 tractors and associated implements)
would be purchased by INCORA under the loan and sold to contractors in the
area. The terms and conditions under which the contractors would operate
the equipment would be the same as those agreed upon under Loan 502-CO.
6.08      A special Board, on which INCORA and CECORA serve as key members,
has been established to guide and supervise the contractors' farm machinery
operations under Loan 502-CO. This Board would also serve the Stage II
Project. The contractors would perform work ordered by CAC, in accordance
with parceleros' farm plans. CAC would also pay the contractors and charge
the costs to each parcelero's rural credit account. Large farmers who
choose to retain 50 or more ha and to farm them according to INCORA :i_ommend-
ations have the option of either buying their own machinery or obtaining
tractor services from contractors like the parceleros.
6.09      Supply of Fertilizers, Seeds, and Pesticides.  The parceleros' farm
plans would define requirements for fertilizers, seeds, and pesticides. Farms
of the same type would have the same cropping pattern and thus the total
input requirement could be easily determined. All farm inputs would be
purchased by CAC with the cost charged to individual parceleros' credit
accounts. Farmers owning 50 ha or more would have the option of obtaining
the inputs through CAC or directly from dealers.
6.10      INCORA operates a supervised credit program in the area, with
the Caja Agraria (Agricultural Bank) performing the actual Banking service.
In addition, the Banco Ganadero (Livestock Bank) provides credit to parceleros
for cattle purchase. Under the project, production loans to the parceleros
would continue to be supplied by the supervised credit operations of INCORA.
Since all parceleros would have close ties with INCORA, credit requirements



- 14 -
would be accurately assessed, and the use of credit closely supervised. It
is estimated that at full development, credit needs would be stabilized at
about Col$ 58 million (US$2.73 million) per season. Aside from production
loans, parceleros operating dairy farms would require about Col$ 47 million
in long-term credit to finance the initial purchase of cattle and the
construction of sheds, fences, and other farm structures. These requirements
would be spread out over a six-year period. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would make available to INCORA amounts
sufficient to fulfill the seasonal credit requirements of the project farmers.
In addition, the Government would also make arrangements to provide dairy
farmers in the project with the necessary long-term credit of about Col$ 47
million.
Operation and Maintenance
6.11      INCORA would be responsible for operating and maintaining all
project facilities. The annual operation and maintenance costs after
completion of Project construction (5th year) would amount to Col$ 224
(US$10.70) per ha. The pumping cost represents the proportional part of
Stage II in the operation and maintenance costs of Boquitas pumping plant.
The annual breakdown of the operating and maintenance costs for the entire
project is as follows (see Annex 14 for details):
Col$         US$
--------- '000-------
Personnel                   1,400          67.0
Depreciation                1,380          65.5
Materials and Supplies         780         37.2
Pumping                       255          12.0
Total                  3,815         181.7
Project Charges
6.12      The Agrarian Reform Law gives INCORA authority to collect charges
to help defray the costs of development projects. Under Loan 502-CO, INCORA
has agreed "to obtain such information as is necessary for the purposes of
formulating a policy that will enable us to recover, in addition to operating
and maintenance costs, as high a proportion of our investment in the Project
as is practicable while retaining the necessary level of incentive on the
part of the farmers to maximize production...". This study has now been
completed and is under review by the Government. Pending the outcome of
the Government's decision, only provisional estimates of project charges may
be made. Assuming that the Government would attempt to recover as much as
possible of the project costs while still providing parceleros with a net
income of US$900, a charge of US$44 per ha per year could be levied. This
level of charge would meet all operation and maintenance costs and permit
the recovery of all project costs, including US$1.76 million as part of the
project costs under Loan 502-CO, at 5.5% interest over the estimated 40-year
life of the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from



- 15 -
Government that it would levy a charge sufficient to cover operation and
maintenance costs of the Project and as much of the capital expenditures as
feasible after consideration of the farmers' incentive and capacity to pay.
VII. PRODUCTION AND FARMERS' INCOME
Farm Type and Cropping Pattern
7.01      Five farm types would be developed under the project according to
land use capability; four types are variations of general crop farming and
the fifth type is for dairy production. Farm types for general farming,
totaling about 12,400 ha, would grow two crops a year, with planting time
adjusted to take advantage of the two rainy periods. Spring crops would
include sorghum, maize, and soybeans, while sesame, maize, soybeans, cotton,
groundnuts, and tomatoes would make up the main fall crops. Eventually,
in an effort towards greater diversification and depending on market
prospects, other crops such as beans, tobacco, onions, melons, and various
fruits and vegetables could substitute for the earlier selected main crops.
Dairy farms (4,600 ha) would at first have both field, forage, and pasture
crops, but would gradually change to only forage and pasture crops.
Yields and Production
7.02      Each individual crop farm would reach full production in the 5th
year after permanent allotment, dairy farms in the 9th year (Annex 15).
The projected yield levels of the traditional crops are based on yields
already achieved by farms in the project area that are not affected by flood
or salinity, while those of tomato, groundnuts, and soybeans are based on
trials in the project as well as yields obtained by better situated farms
under comparable dry farming conditions in the area. At full development,
the project is expected to produce each year around 18,000 tons of sorghum,
14,000 tons of maize, 17,000 tons of tomatoes and other fruit and veg-table
crops, 20,000 liters of milk, 1,700 cows and 8,000 calves (for sale), and
smaller amounts of sesame, cotton, soybeans, and groundnuts. Projected yield
levels and production compared with present levels are presented in Annex 3.
Marketing and Storage
7.03      As the agricultural production of the project area increases,
CECORA/CAC would market it with help from IDEMA. Sorghum and maize would
be sold to manufacturers of feed concentrates, such as Purina, while sesame,
cotton seed, soybean, and half of the groundnuts would be purchased by
oil processors in the coastal cities. The other half of the groundnut crop,
about 800 tons of unshelled, is expected to meet confectionary standards
for export to Europe. Cotton would be marketed through IDEMA while tomatoes
of canning quality would be absorbed by the California Cannery in Barranquilla
and Fruco Cannery in Cali. These two companies have a combined seasonal
capacity of 12,000 tons of fresh tomatoes and have plans for expansion.
Fresh vegetable markets in Barranquilla and other coastal cities which pay



- 16 -
higher prices than the canneries would take up a sizable portion of the
crop as Atlantico has been a net tomato importing area.  Milk would go
mainly to Barranquilla, through CAC. All domestic marketing would move
through the established channels, only in larger quantities. Surveys con-
ducted by INCORA, CECORA, and the consultants show that there would be no
difficulty in marketing crops in the projected amounts.
Prices
7.04      The Government operates a price support program for sorghum, maize,
sesame, and soybean although market prices for these crops run equal to or
higher than the support prices. Milk prices are determined nationally by
agreements within the industry. There is no price support for cotton, ground-
nuts, or tomatoes. Prices used to compute farm income are equal to or lower
than prevailing local market prices, except for groundnuts where part of the
production is expected to be exported to Europe for confectionary purposes.
All production costs are based on current prices in the area and include
hired labor at the going rate of Col$ 20 per man-day.
Farm Income
7.05      At full agricultural development, cash returns per farm after
deducting all production costs, including hired labor but before repayment
of project charges and income tax, would vary between Col$ 28,200 (US$1,343)
on farm type B3 and Col$ 41,700 (US$1,986) on type B1, which is located on
the best soils. The dairy farms (type C), which accumulate more capital
equity than the general farms, would have an annual cash return of about
Col$ 33,300 (US$1,586) each. When deducting the provisional project
charges of Col$ 7,400 or US$352 for an 8-ha farm (see para 6.12) from
these returns, the minimum farm income would still exceed INCORA's target
of US$900 per farm. This compares favorably with the country's average
agricultural per capita income of US$180 (1970 Bank estimate based on FAO
Statistics), considering that the ratio of economic active versus total
population in agriculture in Colombia is 1:3.6. Detailed farm budgets for
8-ha farms are presented in Annex 16 and summarized below:
Farm Type
General Crop Production                Dairy
A          B1          B2          B3          C
Col $
Cash Returns         36,850      41,700      37,700      28,200     33,300
Project Charges       7,400       7,400       7,400       7,400       7,400
Net Farm Income      29,450      34,300      30,300      20,800      25,900



- 17 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The flood control works to be constructed under Loan 502-CO and
those to be constructed under the proposed project are integral parts of a
complete flood control, drainage, and road system and, since the agricultural
development of the entire 17,000 ha is being done under one plan, the costs
and benefits estimated for the entire area were incorporated in the economic
rate of return analysis.
8.02      Benefits to be derived from the Project would be increased pro-
duction of crops and milk from the 17,000 ha, increased employment and in-
come in the Department of Atlantico, and some US$130,000 annual foreign ex-
change earnings through export of peanuts. Other benefits include improved
environment through the elimination of water ponding in the area and a
better transportation system. The project would also bring about a more
equitable distribution of income in the area (see para 7.05).
8.03      About 1,800 parceleros families and a small number of private
farmers would benefit directly from the program. Another 650 heads of
families would find steady employment as farm laborers, while a great number
of families would benefit from the increase in employment opportunities
through expanding tractor services, transportation facilities, processing
industries, and retail trade in or near the project area or in the coastal
cities.
8.04      At full agricultural production, 10 years after completion of
project works, the annual gross value of the crops, milk, and cattle from
the project would be about US$8.2 million annually, while the net value of
production would reach US$3.1 million, after deducting production costs and
hired labor. Because of the high unemployment rate in the Atlantico area,
the opportunity cost of family labor has been treated as being zero in
calculating production costs. The same gross and net values without the
project are US$1.5 million and US$0.6 million, respectively; thereforp
the net incremental value of production from the project would be about
US$2.5 million annually (Annex 17).
8.05      The average life of project facilities has been assessed at 40
years. Discounting project costs and benefits over this period yields an
economic rate of return of about 23%. If project costs are increased by
20%, the rate of return declines to 19.5% and, if the benefits are reduced
by 20%, the rate of return becomes 19%. Costing of all family labor, but
with original project costs, still yields a rate of return of over 15%.
IX. RECONENDATIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:



- 18 -
(a)  Government would submit to the Bank for comment a training
schedule for INCORA personnel, giving details of individual
training assignments before undertaking it (para 5.07);
(b)  INCORA would let a maximum of four contracts for drains
and roads and would promptly issue import licenses for imported
equipment and materials (para 5.12);
(c)  within one year of the effective date of the loan, INCORA
would prepare and submit to the Bank for review, programs on:
(i) agricultural research and extension, and (ii) training
of Atlantico Stage II farmers, and would then implement such
programs (para 6.06);
(d)  Government would make adequate funds available to provide
long-term credit to establish dairy farms and seasonal credit
for parceleros (para 6.10); and
(e)  Government would levy a charge sufficient to cover operation
and maintenance costs of the project and as much of the
capital expenditures as feasible (para 6.12)
9.02      The proposed project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of
US$5.0 million for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of six years.
June 1, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Loans to Colombia
1.        Including Atlantico Project Stage I, the Bank has made five
loans for agricultural development in Colombia in the last six year,
totalling US$69.1 million. The other four projects are discussed below:
(a) Loan 448-CO (May 1966, US$16.7 million) and Loan 651-CO
(December 1969, US$18.3 million) for livestock development
have been affected by a series of problems, the principal
ones being (i) an unsatisfactory investment climate arising
primarily from the lack of clarity in application of the
Agrarian Reform Law, and (ii) the failure on the part of
the Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (CAJA) to
provide sufficient short-term financing of working capital
and purchase of feeder steers, which has left some parti-
cipating ranchers unable to service debts during the early
years and contributed to the slow-down in the demand for
Bank funds. As Loan 651-CO was almost totally undisbursed
on the December 31, 1971 closing date of Loan 448-CO, the
US$3.2 million undisbursed balance of the latter was cancelled,
effective February 9, 1972. As far as the investment climate
is concerned, Government feels that proposed amendments to
the Agrarian Reform Law, passed by the Senate in February
1972 and now awaiting House concurrence, should go a long
way toward resolving investment uncertainties in the
agricultural sector. With respect to the short-term financing
problem, CAJA has advised the Bank that it has substantiallv
increased the availability of such funds for the Bank-financed
project. Loan 651-00 is being kept under close review, however,
so that an appropriate course can be embarked on if the rate
of progress does not improve substantially in the next few
months;
(b) Loan 624-CO (June 1969, US$17 million) finances a four-year
supervised credit program of INCORA to improve productivity
on about 2,500 medium-sized irrigated and rainfed farms in
the Departments of Tolima and Valle. This project has also
been affected by the uncertain investment climate as well
as by a change in INCORA policy which occurred since the
time of appraisal. INCORA now prefers to concentrate its
resources in the credit area on farmers who are beneficiaries
in the agrarian reform program. While this shift is
understandable, it does not include all medium-sized farmers
potentially eligible to participate in the loan. As only



ANNEX 1
Page 2
US$2.4 million has been disbursed (through May 31, 1972),
Government is of the opinion that, even if the expected
improvement in the investment climate occurs, major
restructuring of the project will be necessary. It is
therefore in the process of preparing proposals to this
effect for consideration by the Bank. (Any proposed
agreement on major changes in the Project would, of
course, be submitted to the Executive Directors for
approval.) If agreement on a substantial restructuring
of the loan cannot be reached in the coming months, it
may be necessary to consider cancelation of a substantial
portion of the undisbursed balance; and
(c) Loan 739-CO (May 1971, US$8.1 million) is financing,
primarily, farm credits, road construction, schools, and
health cetera for the direct benefit of about 6,300
settlers in INCORA's Caqueta Land Colonization Project.
Road and building construction work is proceeding on
schedule, but there has been some delay in working out
the details of administrative arrangements between INCORA
and the Banco Ganadero (Livestock Bank) for the operation
of the credit program. These problems have been largely
resolved, however, and a substantial number of farm
credits are being made. The rate of processing credit
applications is also satisfactory.
May 31, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soils and Topography
1.        The Atlantico Project area is an enclosed depression.  Its northern
portion consists of the footlands of low hills, ranges from 5 to about 30 m
above sea level, and tapers toward the south at a gentle slope, varying from
0.5% to 2%. On the west, east, and south sides, the embankment of Guajaro
Reservoir, the banks of the Magdalena River, and the banks of Canal del Dique
rise to a general elevation of about 5 to 6 m above sea level. Micro-relief
within the boundaries varies from 0 to about 8 m above sea level. The
lowlands are bottoms of former lakes, swamps, or interconnecting waterways.
The higher lands are rounded ridges dividing the secondary depressions. The
lowest pockets remain as swamps of various sizes.
2.        A detailed soil survey of the project area was first conducted from
1964 through 1965 by Colombian consultants, Samper and Madero. A TAHAL
soil specialist checked the original survey and proposed in a report, dated
July 1969, that the numerous identified soil series be categorized into eight
major groups to facilitate project planning. As the result of a Bank mission
in October 1969, a land classification specialist was employed by INCORA in
November 1969 to review survey results of the Stage I area, especially in
regard to locating the saline/alkaline patches and excluding them from farm
development with sprinkler irrigation. He confirmed that the TAHAL grouping
was appropriate, laboratory testing procedures adequate, and data obtained
was incorporated into a land classification that meets requirements.
3.        From 1969 through 1970, supplementary surveys were conducted by
INCORA, with assistance of the consultants, for land not included in "he
original survey because of inaccessibility of the swamps at that time. A
detailed soil survey of the entire Stage II area is now complete, and maps
are available to show land classification according to three systems:
USBR, USDA Land Use Capability and TAHAL's eight soil groups. The USDA,
instead of the USBR, system is used for planning future cropping patterns
because development at this stage would be by dry farming instead of by
irrigation.
4.        Five land-use classes and nine subclasses are identified in the
Stage II area. Soil characteristics relevant to project agricultural plan-
ning are given in Table 1 of this annex and are summarized as follows:
(a) light textured soils with no salinity-alkalinity problem
but a low moisture holding capacity would be used for
traditional crops (excluding sorghum), plus peanuts and/or
tobacco -- Farm Type A;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b) soils with no appreciable salinity-alkalinity to a
depth of 120 cm from the surface, and at the same time
with good moisture holding capacity, would be used for
Farm Types B, and B2, which include higher value crops,
such as cotton, soybeans, and other beans, peanuts,
tobacco, and tomato and other vegetables and fruit
crops, in addition to the traditional crops;
(c)  soils with a saline-alkaline layer at a depth of 60
to 80 cm would be used only for the traditional crops:
sorghum,; maize, and sesame, as well as soybeans --
Farm Type B3;
(d) soils with a saline-alkaline layer at a depth of 20
to 40 cm would be used only for pasture and forage crops
for dairy farming -- Farm Type C; and
(e) soils either severely affected by salinity-alkalinity
or eroded are excluded from farm development.
5.        The 17,000 ha to be developed in Stage II is derived as follows:
Gross area                                                  30,334 ha
Saline areas excluded on basis of soll type                  8,134 ha
Gross suitable area                                         22,200 ha
Rights of way                                                2,200 ha
Estimated additional exclusion of isolated saline
spots intermingled in good soils                           3,000 ha
Net area                                               17,000 ha
6.        On the basis of existing soil survey data and the results of addi-
tional field tests to be conducted, INCORA will demarcate and exclude the
isolated saline-alkaline spots as accurately as possible before farmers
are settled on the land. Allocation of 8-ha parcels to these farmers would
be tentative for the first year, during which sorghum would be grown as an
"indicator crop". Since sorghum is familiar to all local farmers, adaptable
to a wide range of soils, and more tolerant to salinity-alkalinity than other
crops in the project area, patches of land on which sorghum grows poorly for
no other apparent reason is taken to indicate possible severe saline-
alkaline conditions. These patches and strips, when confirmed by testing
for salts, would be delineated and excluded. Final allocation of parcels
to the parceleros would then be made.
April 20, 1972



COLONBIA
SECUNID ATLANTICO DEVELOPfENT PhOJECT
Susmary Properties of Soils of Different
Land Use Capability Classes 1/
USDA Land Use               Depth             Electric
Capability                  Below             Conductivity                                Exchangeab_e
Soil              (Saturated                                 Sodium                 Field             Wilting           Gross           Planned             Farm area to
Class    Subclass           Surface           Paste Extract)              PH              (ESP)                                    Point             Area            Farm Type          be Developed
mmho/cm at                                                                                            ha.                                    ha.
25'C
II         II cs              0-30                (1.0                  6.1-7.3            ;1.0                 21.2-25.5          4.9-9.8           1,245               A
30-120              (2.4                  6.7-7.4             i1 .0
II cse             0-30                 1.0                 6.1-7.3             K1.0                     -                 -                 33              A
30-120             ( 2.4                  6.7-7.4              1.0
1,520
III       III cs              0-30               R 2.0                  6.0-7.5            ' 5.0                19.8-20.4          3.2-5.6             218               A
30-120              (2.0                  6.0-7.5              5.0
III cse             0-30               (1.0                  6.5-7.0              1.0                 19.8-20.4          3.2-5.6             486              A
30-120              1.0-4.1               6.9-7.3            X1.0
III csw             0-30               < 2.0                 4.0-6.5             5. Go/               31.9-40.0         13.7-22.8         12,575          B1 B2 :B3
30-120              < 2.0                 6.6-8.1              5-c2 
IV        IV cs               0-30               1.0-4.4                4.3-6.o            1.0-6.0              29.5-37.9         10.9-20.3          3,185               B       )         10,920
30-120              5.0-12.0              4.6-8.4            7.0-36.0-e'/
IV cow              0-30               1.0-4.4               4.3-6.1            1.o-6.o               29.5-37.9         10.9-20.3          1,126              B
30-120              5.0-12.0              4.6-8.4            7.0-36.0A-
VI        VI csw              0-30               1.0-3.7                4.6-8.7            2.0-7.0               32.9-41 .0       14.7-23.8          6,350               C                  4,560
30-120              2.0-10.0              5.3-7.5            9.0-38.0
VIII      VIII cs             0-30                  < 94                  10.3                 80                27.3-37.3        8.5-17.9           4,912           Not Used
30-120                <29                   10.3                 82                                                                                )
Erosion Land                                                                                                                                           214           Not Used
Grand Total                                                                                                                                         30,334                                 17,000
1/    There are saline spots and/or saline-alkaline spots intermingled with soils of
Classes II to TV. The properties of these spots are not shown because they
will be excluded from development.
i/    Generally less than 5, occasional high of 15.
/    Depth, 60 to 80 cm
1/    Depth, 20 to 40 cm






ANNEX 3
COLOMB IA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Cropping Patterns/
Present                           Future
CroppIA        /3                  Cropped
Crops     Area L    Yield-   Production    Area         Yield   Production
ha      ton/ha        ton          ha      ton/ha      ton
Sorghum          3,600     1.8         6,500        5,900     3.0      17,800
Sesame           2,200     0.3           700        3,000     0.7       2,100
Cotton           1,200     1.3         1,600        3,700      1.8      6,700
Maize                                               5,700      2.5     14,200
Peanut                                              1,100      1.6      1,700
Soybean                                             4,300      1.8      7,800
Tomatoes                                            1,100    15.0      17,000
1,000 F.U./ha  1,000 F.U./
Forage Crops         /5                               900     6.0       5,400
Pasture Crops 11,150-'                              2,600      8.0     21,000
Sorghum for
Silage                                            1,100     2.5      2,700
Livestock                       Saleable Amount           Saleable Amount
Beef Cattle                         1,400/6
Dairy Cattle
Cows (head)                                                  1,700
Female Calves (head)                700                     2,800
Male Calves (head)                  700                      5,100
Milk (1,000 Liters)                 800                     20,000
/1   All figures, except for yields, are rounded.
7_   Present crop areas include those belonging to private farmers and
parceleros, but not the small scattered plantings of subsistence
crops, estimated to cover about 1,800 ha.
/3   Present crop yields are based on those obtained by private farmers
in 1969 and before.
/4   F.U. = Feed Unit, i.e. nutrient equivalent to 1 kg barley.
7T   Present pastures are essentially native vegetation subject to effects
of floods and salinity-alkalinity.
/6   The present pasture is estimated to carry less than 1.0 head of
cattle with a 50/50 ratio of cows and calves.
April 20, 1972



ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Size of Land Holdings
Less than                More than
Item            Unit      10 ha     10-100 ha       100 ha    Total
Properties         No.        287         462           123         872
X          33          53            14         100
Owners             No.        290         426            94         810
X          3(1#        52            12         100
Area               ha       1,150      11,773        17,253      30,176
X           4          39            57         100
Average Area       ha           4          25           140
per property
Average Area       ha           4          28           184
per owner
April 20, 1972



ANNEX 5
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Land Acquisition and Preparation by INCORA
Procurement of Large Farms and Partition into Family Farms
1.        Colombia's Agrarian Reform Law, Act No. 135 of December 1961, as
amended by Act No. 1 of January 1968, provides INCORA power to study, pro-
mote and carry out construction of works for controlling floods, regulating
water courses, providing irrigation, reclaiming land and bringing about a
change in rural land-holding structures.
2.        In the Atlantico Project area, INCORA would exercise its power to
acquire by voluntary purchase or expropriation of privately-owned land suit-
able for establishing "family farms" (in the present project these would be
8-ha farm units). An owner of a holding larger than 50 ha, but less than
150 ha, would have the right to purchase back from INCORA up to 50 ha of the
land formerly in his possession. An owner of a holding larger than 150 ha
would be allowed to buy back one-third of his former possession, up to a
maximum of 100 ha. INCORA would decide which pieces of the land would be
re-sold to the former land-owners.
3.        The Augustin Codazzi Geographical Institute is authorized by the
Government to estimate the value of each of the private properties in the
area before and after the improvement works are completed. The Institute's
valuation is reviewed and agreed upon by three experts appointed, one each,
by the Institute, INCORA and the land-owner.
4.        INCORA would buy the land from the owners at the appraised ?rices
for "before improvement", and would pay the owner in the following manner:
(a) for uncultivated land, in Class B Agrarian Bonds issued in
pursuance of the Act, which bear an interest of 2% per
annum and mature in 25 years;
(b) for improperly farmed land in cash; a down-payment would
be made which is equivalent to 20% of the price, but not
exceeding a maximum of Col$ 100,000; the remainder would
be paid in 12 equal annual instalments bearing an interest
of 4% per annum; and
(c) for land not accounted for under (a) or (b) above, in cash,
a down-payment equivalent to 20% of the price would be made,
but not exceeding a maximum of Col$ 300,000; the remainder
would be paid in five equal annual installments bearing an
interest of 6% per annum.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The price which the former land-owners pay to buy back 50 ha or
more of the improved land would be equal to the sum of:
(a) the cost at which INCORA bought that portion of the land;
(b) the proportional cost of the improvement works; and
(c) a tax on the increased value of the land after improvement
equal to 40% of the difference between the new land value
and the sum of (a) and (b) above.
6.        INCORA would then divide the acquired lands into "family farms"
and sell them to selected "parceleros". The law provides that the sale
prices of the plots to the beneficiaries may not exceed the amount paid for
them by the Institute. The parcelero shall meet the total cost of the plot
(and an interest of 4% per annum) within a period of 15 years. The amount
of the prineipal shall not, however, begin to be collected until after the
third year. Plots of different farm types would have different costs.
7.        All land-owners within the development districts are required to
comply with such regulations as INCORA may issue concerning water and land
use. INCORA would regulate and control water use in the district, and with-
out prejudicing the water supply to the present beneficiaries, may acquire
or control privately-owned ditches for the overall benefit of the develop-
ment area.
Consolidation of Small-holdings into Family Farms
8.        The law provides that whenever INCORA considers land consolidation
necessary to raise the standard of living in areas where small-holdings
predominate, it should draw up plans for and carry out land consolidation,
which would lead to the formation of "family farms". It may expropriate
small-holdings, adjacent large holdings or land available elsewhere for
this purpose. Although the law requires agreement to be obtained from
small-holding land-owners representing at least 50% of the area concerned
before land consolidation can be ordered, over 50% of the small-holders
in the Atlantico project who own less than 8 ha are expected to sign up for
land consolidation whereby they would get back, in return, an 8 ha lot.
The buying and selling of land between INCORA and the small-holders would
be guided by the same procedures as described in paragraphs 3 through 5.
Land Selection and Preparation
9.        INCORA believes that, with the exception of some large land-
owners who may choose to retain 50 ha or more of land for their own use,
it would be able to acquire most of the 17,000 ha for subdividing into
family farms of 8 ha lots. Based on topographic and soil maps, INCORA
would buy, over a five-year period, about 17,400 ha of land. Of this,
a portion would not be presently subject to floods and would cost about
Col$ 2,000 per ha at the current rate. Areas subject to temporary floods
would cost about Col$ 1,200 per ha. The total cost of lands is about Col$ 27
million (US$1.29 million).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       Large blocks of saline/alkaline soils would be excluded from
land purchasing; however, the areas to be purchased are interlaced with
small patches and strips of soils containing harmful salts. These bad
soils would be excluded from development, as described in Annex 1. After
this screening, INCORA would select at least 17,000 ha for development.
11.       Out of the 17,000 ha selected, about 13,800 ha would be new land,
some of it covered with bushes and small trees. INCORA would hire con-
tractors to clear this area and give it a rough leveling and an initial
deep plowing. Estimated total cost of the work is Col$ 1,250 per ha, or
about Col$ 17.2 million (US$0.82 million).
April 20, 1972






ANNEX 6
Page~ 1
COLOMBIA
SElCOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPITNT PROJFCT
Project Civil Works
1.        Prior to construction of the dikes along the Magdalena River and
the Canal del Dique and construction of the Guajaro Reservoir, the project
area was a network of swamps, subject to periodic irundation. Interconnecting
waterways laced the old swamp area and a flood from any source affeef :-: it
throughout.
2.        The project area is now protected from flooding on the west, east
and south by the embankment and dikes.  Remaining sources of flooding are
the drainage areas from the hills to the north and preeiDitation fallirig on
the project area itself. Out of a gross area of 30,000 ha, 8,000 la are
periodically flooded in normal years, especially during October and November.
In 1970, over 10,000 ha were flooded.
Flood Control Works Under Stage I (Loan 502-CO)
3.        Loan 502-CO was originally planned to provide protection for at
least 6,000 ha of the good project lands and to develop them for dry farming.
This was to be accomplished by one interceptor canal to run from north of
Candelaria west to the Guajaro Reservoir and by building access roads to
farms and providing drainage. At the time that the loan was made, detailed
studies of the proposed works were not available. Refined studies made
prior to initiation of construction, however, indicated that a better and
more logical solution would be the flood interception scheme (paras 6 to 10)
now proposed. Under the new plan, a more complete drainage system would be
built (paras 11 to 18), making it possible to develop 17,000 ha for dry
farming instead of 6,000 ha, as envisaged in Loan 502-CO.
4.        In January 1970, INCORA and its consultants discussed the revised
plan for Loan 502-CO with IBRD and obtained approval of the concept of the
proposed changes. It was, therefore, agreed that, under Loan 502-CO,
the three flood interceptors, the irrigation and drainage facilities
of the pilot farm, and portions of the drainage and road systems would be
completed. This would free at least 6,000 ha from floods and make the land
suitable for dry farming. The drains and roads built would also be compat-
ible with overall drainage and road plans for the larger area.
5.        A detailed account of the civil works necessary to protect 17,000
ha for dry farming is given below. The works financed under Loan 502-CO
are included as well as those proposed under the new loan.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Flood Protection System
6.        Selection of the scheme to be used from the many alternatives
studied was based on a comparison of the costs tempered by evaluation of
the physical circumstances considering such points as peak inflows, dura-
tion of flood flows and sediment. Because there is no precise data available,
the adopted plan, involving detention reservoirs, allows a margin for errors
in estimating such factors. Further, the adopted plan would allow an oppor-
tunity for removal of sediments by dragline or other means during dry seasons
if it becomes necessary.
7.        The adopted scheme controls all tributary inflows from the 200
km2 draining into the project area from the north. The western zone, with
about 56 kmZ drainage area between Guajaro Reservoir and Manati, would be
diverted into the Guajaro Reservoir. The central zone of 40 km2 drainage
area lying between Manati and Candelaria would be collected and stored in
an improved Sabalo swamp. The eastern zone, with about 105 km2 between
Candelaria and the Magdalena River, would be diverted into the Magdalena
River.
8.        Western Interceptor.  The adopted plan would involve a diversion
structure to divert Pantano stream just above the village of Manati and a
diversion channel, about 1.0 km long, 2.5 m wide and 4.0 m deep, to carry
Pantano flows into a detention reservoir. The detention reservoir would be
an elongated flat canal formed by a dike about 10 km long, with a maximum
height of 3.5 m and a gross storage capacity of 2 Mm3. The dike would end
at the Guajaro Dam. A broad crested weir with a crest at the maximum
normal water surface of Guajaro Reservoir would control the discharge from
the detention reservoir to Guajaro Reservoir. Minor structures as needed
would be constructed, including two outlets leading to the drainage system
so that the detention reservoir could be drained if desired. The dike
forming the detention reservoir would also be used as a main road.
9.        Sabalo Swamp.  The existing Sabalo swamp would be improved and
its capacity increased to store the flows of the central zone. The existing
Caretto-Candelaria road would be raised and improved to form the dike. The
maximum fill would be constructed to redirect the Ana Joaquina stream into
the swamp. A concrete box culvert outlet would be constructed to control
discharges from the reservoir and deliver them to the drainage system for
evacuation at Boquitas pumping plant. The outlet would be opened to evac-
uate water to the drainage system whenever the stored water surface reached
a certain elevation. It could also be used to evacuate most water from the
swamp so that portions could be cultivated in the dry season.  No benefits
have been attributed to this area in the project analysis.
10.       Eastern Interceptor.  This facility would consist of an unlined
canal about 3 km long to intercept and divert the Bejuco and Barro streams
and discharge them into a detention reservoir. The detention reservoir,
Las Flores Reservoir, would be formed by an embankment 4.6 km long with a
maximum height of 5 m and a gross capacity of about 3 Mm3. Three major
streams would flow directly into it. The reservoir would be evacuated by a



ANNE;X 6
Page 3
concrete-lined canal 0.9 km long, which would carry the water to the Magda-
lena River. There would be sufficient fall in this canal so that flood
flows in the Md,gdalena would not back up in it to an appreciable distance.
Structures as needed to control flows would be constructed. An outlet
would be provided so that detention reservoir5 could be drained to the
drainage *yvqtem if desired.
Drainage System
11.       Observations have been made periodically on groundwater levels
since 1963. The network density was greatly increased in 1968 as a result
of the studies made for this project. Groundwater is generally more shallow
and fluctuates more readily in response to high stages in the Canal del
Dique and Magdalena River adjacent to them. However, the fluctuations
lessen as one leaves the periphery of the area, until, in the central por-
tion of the area, the water table shows only small variations, according
to the influence of the wet season and the dry season. For the project
area as a whole, groundwater depths vary from 1 to 7 m below ground surface.
12.       The drainage system proposed is designed only to remove excess
surface water and is not intended to control levels of groundwater. The
groundwater observations indicate that, under present conditions, the
water table is deep enough not to hamper crop production. The consumptive
use of future crops under dry farm conditions would approximate that of
the present vegetative cover. The contribution to groundwater should be
reduced when flood inflows from the north are removed and excess surface
water, which now ponds during the rainy season, is carried off.
13.       One alternative scheme considered involved construction of indi-
vidual drain systems that would lead water to swamps where it could evap-
orate. This alternative was discarded for economic reasons. The old swamp
areas are among the most productive lands and diverting more water to them
would only contribute to their further salinization - there would be no
movement of water out of the area and no removal of salts.
14.       The adopted solution calls for construction of one main drain
that would start near Manati and discharge at the Boquitas pumping plant,
now tnder construction as part of the Stage I works. Six main lateral
drains would bring water to the main drain and a system of secondary drains
would be constructed to provide surface water outlets to the main laterals.
Approximately 51 km of main drain and laterals and 60 km of secondary drains
would be built.
15.       Because it was found to be too costly to lead all drain water to
the main system, small drains would be built to take water from three small
areas to low swamps where it would evaporate.
16.       Studies indicate that the presently planned capacity of 5m3/sec
for Boquitas pumping plant is adequate to serve Stage II as well as Stage I.
They showed that the plant could evacuate the area fast enough to prevent
damage to crops if a storm with 60 mm rainfall fell over the entire area.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Boquitas Reservoir, a natural swamp area covering about 400 ha, is used to
temporarily store flood runoff. Its bottom elevation is at sea level and
it is adjacent to the main drains for Stage I and for Stage II. If a
storm occurred and inflow increased and finally exceeded the capacity of
the Boquitas pumping plant to evacuate water, it is anticipated that the
main drains would automatically back up and store water. When the storage
capacity is exceeded, water would overflow into Boquitas swamp and two
other low-lying areas. After the flood inflow subsided and with continued
evacuation at Boquitas pumping plant, the water level in the drains would
be drawn down and Boquitas' storage evacuated. The design storm of 60 mm
would utilize storage of about 3 Mm3 in Boquitas and other swamps, would
involve a water stage of about 1 m above sea level and take 10 days to evac-
uate. If the storm were larger, there would be some temporary inundation
of agricultural land.
17.       At a later time, a gated control structure could be used to
isolate drainage from the dry farmed lands from irrigated lands.
Dikes on the periphery of Boquitas swamp and a control structure to regulate
flows from the main drain to the swamp could also be installed in a future
stage to give more control of flows into and out of the swamp area.
18.       The Manati swamp area is currently developed for dry farming and
lies below elevation + 1 m above sea level. When water backs up in the
drainage system, it would overflow this developed area at about the same
time overflow took place into Boquitas swamp. A gated control structure is
planned on drain VI to prevent this from happening. A small portable pump
might also be used if necessary to evacuate water from drain VI into the
main drain. If operating experience shows this to be necessary, a small
permanent pump could be installed.
Roads System
19.       Most of the roads within the project area are unpaved and general-
ly impassable in the rainy season. The roads that are gravelled are passable
but they are subject to inundation.
20.       As part of the project, a road system would be provided that
would incorporate roads on the dikes of the flood interceptor system and
along the main drains and laterals. New roads would be built as necessary
or existing ones improved to complete the network. Secondary roads would
be constructed to provide access to parcellations. Main roads would be 8 m
wide and have a gravel surface 6 m wide and 0.20 m thick. Secondary
roads would be 4 m wide and have gravel surfacing 0.20 m thick.
21.       The main roads are:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
#1        Manati to Canal del Dique                  12 km
#2        El Limon to Campo - Santa Lucia Road    15 km
#3        Santa Lucia to Campo de la Cruz            11 km
#4        Campo de la Cruz to Carreto                 8 km
#5        Candelaria to Magdalena River               5 km
#6        Guajaro Res to Magdalena River
via interceptors                       26 km
77 km
22.       Costs of roads associated with flood interceptor and drainage
canals are incorporated in estimates for those items.
April 20, 1972






COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Construction Schedule
Calendar Year            1971         1972           1973        1974         1975       |197              1977
502-CO
Flood Interceptor Works
Western Interceptor                       _
Sabalo Swamp
Eastern Interceptor                                                                   .
Pilot Project
Drains
Stage II
Main Drains roads and
Laterals
Secondary Drains and
Roads
Load ppwation                                               _                                   ..-__  L ____
Transit Stores                                                                           .         _          -
Operational Hdquarters                    _
Imported Equipment
Operation and Mntnance                                     _
Transit Stores
Vehicles
A#ricultural Machinery                                     .
Consulting Services                                                               __
INCORA Training                         |__              _                                            -       j___



ANNEX 8
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants
1.        The work of the consultants would fall into two distinct categories
as follows:
(a) Engineering activities related to construction of civil works;
(b) Advice and assistance in establishment of agricultural practices
on the dry farm area.
2.        INCORA has retained TAHAL of Israel as the general consultants
for implementation of loan 502-CO. The terms and conditions under which
they were retained were reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank. A
similar contract would be executed for the work under the proposed loan.
It is anticipated two consultants, one for design and one for supervision of
construction, serving over a two-year period would be adequate to supervise
these activities. The main duties would be to assist INCORA as follows:
(a) Preparation of construction and contract documents;
(b) Prequalification of prospective bidders;
(c) Evaluation of bids and recommendation for the awards of
contracts;
(d) Supervision of construction; and
(e) Preparation of schedules, cost estimates and reports.
3.        To assist in developing the agricultural phases of the project,
three agricultural advisors to INCORA would be retained. These could be
individuals retained by INCORA or furnished by TAHAL under the general
arrangements with that firm. Three such advisers serving for the first
five years of the project are projected. They would be specialists in the
growing of the selected crops and in dairy farming under the specific project
conditions of dry farming. They would develop the agricultural techniques
to be used by those allotted parcels of land.
4.        Costs of consultants have been estimated at the equivalent of
US$3,000 a month and the terms of payment would be similar to those now
used on 502-CO whereby 75% of consultant's fees would be paid in foreign
currencies and 25% in local currencies. Agreement was reached in 502-CO
arrangements that 75% of the foreign currencies would be paid in US $and
25% in Israeli pounds. These arrangements would be followed for the pro-
posed loan.



ANNEX 9
COTUVI(RA
SECOND ATLANTICO DF.VEWPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Civil. Works                             1000's Pesos                  Millions $ US
Drainage System                   Local   Foreign  Totl          Local   F 2Eign   Total
Main Drains                    37,4    2,968    6,911         0.19      0 14      0.33
Lateral Drains                 2,386   1,3803    4,189        0.11      0.09      0.20
Structures                    1,081      822    1,854         0.05      0.04      0.09
Secondary Drainage            2,677   2,027    4              02.3      0.09      0,22
Sub-Total                       .-                                   -        -.P_
10,087   7,620   17,707         0.48      o.36      0.8),
Roads                                                 -01                   .9      02
Main Roads                    2,400   1,809    42209          0.11      0.09      0.20
Secondary Road                1 632   1 232    2 864          o.o8      0.0o      0.14
Sub-Total                3i,041                          :T7       *-:       n 0.1 
Land Preparation                 9,890   7,470   17,360         0.47      0.35      0.82
BuildLings
Transit Stores                 3,749     966    4,715         0.17      0.05      C 0.22
Operation and Maintenance     2,024      506    2,530         0.10      0.02      0.12
Headquarters 
Sub Total Buildings           5,773   1,472    7,245          0.27      0.07      0.34
Total Civil Works            29L?82  19,603   49,385          1.41      0.93      2.34
Land Acquisition                   27j0O0    -       27,000         1.29               1.29
Imported Equipment
Operation and Maintenance        210   7,770    7,980         0.01      0.37      0.38
Transit Stores                    35   1,260    1,295          -        o0o6      o.o6
'Vehicles                        35   1,470    1,505           -        0.07      0.07
Agricultural Machinery           63o  16S590   17,220         0.03      0.79      0.82
Total Imported Equipment   910  27,090   26000          0o.04      1.29      1.3-3
Consulting Services                 3,5;70  11,130   14,700         0.17      D.53     0.70
Professional Training INCORA           -    2,310    2,310           -       0.11      0.11
Fmgineering and Administration      9,030      -      9,030        0 43       -        0.43
Investigation Program Pilot Farm      630      -        630        0.03       -        0.03
Total without contingencies   70,922  60,133  131,055         3.37      2.86      6.23
Contingencies
Price Escalation 4% per year   3,360   2,940    6,300         0.16      0.14      0.30
Physical  15%                10,638   9,020   19,658          0.51      0.43      0.94
wi-Farm Investmenrt Dairy Farms    46,620      -     46,620         2.22       -        2.22
Project Total               13,       7093                   -- . 2_6    13       96-
1_    540  72.09 .. .  . ..



ANNEX 10
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMported Eguipment
No.                US~
A.   Operation and Maintenance
Draglines 3/4 c.y.                    3               145,000
Bulldozer 130-150 H.P.                2                85,000
Motor Grader                          1                45,000
Fronted Loader 1 c.y.                 1                40,000
Dump Truck 6 T                        2                12,000
Vehicles 4 x 4 (4WD)                  5                20,000
Workshop Truck                        1                20,000
Workshop Equipment                                     15,000
Subtotal                   382,000
B.  Transit Stores
Miscellaneous Equipment                                60,000
C.   Vehicles (Agricultural Services)
4 WD                                  5                20,000
Pick-ups                              2                10,000
Motorcycles                          10                 6,000
Bicycles                            500                25,000
Spare Parts                                             6,000
Subtotal                    67,000
D.  Agricultural Machinery
Tractors                            100               350,000
Combines                             16               200,000
Groundnut Threshers                   6                25,000
Implements                                            150,000
Spare Parts                                            95,000
Subtotal                   820,000
Total                    1,329,000
April 20, 1972



SECQ\jLi ATLAINTICO DVaELOPPZhT PROJECT
Lxpenditure Schedule
US$.t illions
CONSTRUCTIGN
PERIOD
Fiscal Year Lndinf'
June 30 of                     1973               197'4               1975            1976               1977            1978            TOTAL
G,    L     T      J      L      T     G     L      T   G     L      T     G     L      T    G   L   T    C.      L      T
CiviL YIorks              0.3   0.3   0.6   0.2   0.6   0.0   0.2   0.4   o.6   -   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.2   _   _              0.8   1.6   2, 
Landi Acquisition         0.3    -    0.3   0.3    -    0.3   0.3    -    0.3  0.3   -    0.3   0.1    -    0.1 -           _   _    1.3      -   1.3
Imported hquipment         -      -     -      -    0.5   0 .5    _ -    o.6   o.6  0.1  0.1  0o9    -        -    -    _   _   -   0.1   1.2   1.3
Consulting Sev. and T7ng   -    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.9    -    0.2   0.2   -   0.2   0.2    -    0.1   0.1   -   -   -   0.1   0.7   0.8
Engineering ard !'dm.     0.1    -    0.1   0.1    -    0.1   0.1    -    0.1  0.1   -    0.1    -            -    -    -   _   _   0.0    -    0.4
Contir)gencies             _-           -    0.2   0.2   O.l,  0.2   0.2   o., 0.3  0.2   o.5    -            -    -    -   -   -   0.7   o.6   1.3
On Farm Invest. (Dairy)         _ _     -    0.3      -   0.3   o.4    -    0o.)  o.4    -   o.hl  0.5        -   0.5  0.6  -   0.5  2.2    -    2.2
Project Total            0.7    0.4   1.1   1.2   1.4   2.6   1.2   1.4   2.6  1.2  0.7   1.9   0.7   0.2   0.9  0.6   -  o.6  5.6   4.1   9.7
Interest Duxing Const.          - 0 -          _    0.1   0.1    -    0.2   0.2   -   0. 3   0.3    -    0.3   0.3   _    _   _   _    0.9   0.9
TOTAL             0.7    0.4  1.1    1.2   1.5   2.7   1.2   1.6   2.8  1.2  1.0   2.2   0.7   0.5   1.2  o.6   _  0.6   5.6  5.0  10.6
1/ Government Budget
2,/ Loarn
3/ Total
(Di-



ANNEX 11
Page 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter          Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
US$ 000
1972/1973
Sept. 30, 1972
Dec.  31, 1972                                        100
Mar.  31, 1973                                        200
June  30, 1973                                        400
1973/1974
Sept. 30, 1973                                        600
Dec.  31, 1973                                        800
Mar.  31, 1974                                      1,200
June  30, 1974                                      1,900
1974/1975
Sept. 30, 1974                                     2,300
Dec.  31, 1974                                     2,700
Mar.  31, 1975                                      3,100
June  30, 1975                                      3,500
1975/1976
Sept. 30, 1975                                     3,800
Dec.  31, 1975                                     4,300
Mar.  31, 1976                                      4,400
June  30, 1976                                     4,500
1976/1977
Sept. 30, 1976                                     4,700
Dec.  31, 1976                                     4,800
Mar.  31, 1977                                     4,900
June  30, 1977                                     5,000
April 20, 1972



COLOMBIA
S 3COND  ATLANTICO DEVELO)EENT PROJECT
ORGARIZATION CHART - INCORA FIELD OFFICE FOR ATLANTICO NO. 3 PROJECT
JhINCORA headquarter-s
in Bogota
INCORA Regional Office   *
in Barranquilla for
all projects along
the Atlantic coast
mCommittee of Leaders                           INCORA Field Office
i of Users (of Developed Land         I           at El Limon for
Atlantico No. 3 Project l-
I____                'Adv-isors
Caribbean Agricultural               - ,                Directcr              --
and Livestock Cooperative        -
Technical
Operation       _  _  _                                   Coordination
|Commaittee                                              Cmittee
Sector of Professional gxtenaion
Department of
Agricultural Development                           ICA - SENA   Private Firma
Information and
Social Development
Unit
Sector of Soila, hyd-olog
| --~~-                      r--                                                   -_ and !eteorologU
Accounting                   Legal                                       ErIgineering
0 DepartnentF Department]                                                Department
Repelon                        Part I                               Part II
Sector                       Sector                                Sector
Farm Settlement   |arm  sttlement                                   Fi|arm Settlement
g. a-n]-T 1festoc             Ag. ana Livestock                    Ag. ard Liveistock                                                                   -
W Lmprovement                _ Improvement                          Improvement
Promotion                       Promotion                           Promotion
Credit           .              Credit                              Credit
|Coordination with |            Coordination  ith |                 Coordination vith
thUsere, Departmentsl         |Veers, Dep rtmenta                   Users, Dap rtAente
e ctore             Units and Sectora                    Unita and Sectora
* A regional office was established
but is now closed. INCORA is
considering reopening this office.






ANNEX 13
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLNTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Developuent Schedule
Number of Rectares Developed
YEAR           1         2      3       4       5      6       Total
Farm Types
A      320       240    240     240    240   240         1,520
BI      -        240    360    600    600   600          2,400
12   680       1,120    840     600     520   480       4,240
B3    680      1,120   840      640    520   480         4,280
c      -         360   800   1,000   1,200  1,200       4,560
Total   1,680      3,080  3,080   3,080   3,080  3,000      17,000
April 20, 1972



ANNEX 14
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
Estimates of Cost
A.  Personnel             Number       Yearlya             Total      US$ 0ooo
Director               1/2 /1          158              79
Assistant Director   1/2 T7            120              60
Mechanic               1/2 T7           50              25
Technician             1                50              50
Surveys               1                140             140
Equipment Operators  7                  45             315
Assistant Operators  7                  17             119
Drivers               8                 25             200
Mechanics              3                50             150
Assistant Mechanics  3                  28              84
Laborers              5                 17              85
Administrators         1                35              35
Secretary              1                25              25
Draftsman              1                35              35
Subtotal                                             1,402          67.0
B.  Depreciation 0 & M Equipment (See Annex 9 for list)
Value                           Useful Life
376,000                               8                             63.9
17,000                             20                               1 6
Subtotal                                                            65.5
C. Materials and Supplies
Fuel and Oil                                            23.4
Miscellaneous                                             1.3
Spare Parts                                             12.5
Subtotal                                                            37.2
D.  Pumping Costs-                                                       12.0
Total Operation and Maintenance Cost                                    181.7
/1   Portion of personnel assigned to Stage II Project.
T7   These figures represent the share of Stage II in the operating and
maintenance cost of the Boquitas Pumping Plant which serves both stages
of the project.
April 20, 1972



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLAIITIC0 DEVE;IPMENT PROJECT
Development ProJections
Crop Areaper 8 ha. Farm Unit of Fam Types A and B
.                                          ~~~~~~~~~~                         ~~Faml Typs  --
--  --   -Light Soils   -"OV ----Di-*a                                   0lB s _ _ _
CI                              --r T__   _-A_-____    -_                                   _    _    _    _    _    __- _B2  --B3
Spring   Fall  Total   Spr$ng   Fall   Total                Fall   Total   Spring   Fall   Total
_____- _f                                      (a -   -                                -_ -__ _ (     _   _ _ _ _ _
rghus                      -                    -         2      -        2       4        -                64  6    -      6
sam                              -       2       2         _-              -       -        3      3         -        2      2
Maize                            4       _       4         4      -        4       a        -       2        1        4      5
ott1                             -       2       2         -      4        4       _        4      4         -        -      -
30ya and/or other Boans           4      -        4        2       1       3        2        -      2         1       2       3
Groundmts an/or Tobacco          -       4       4         -      1        1       _ -             -         -        -      -
omato and/or Oniompa, Melons
Bll peppers  Vegetables                 -       -         -      2        2       -               1         _        _      _
rotal                             8      8       16         8      8      16        8        8     16         8       8      16



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVEWP¶MENT PROJECT
Projection Crop Area per 8 ha FarM _pl of Farm Type C
Crop                 Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Year 4               Year 5              Year 6 and on
Spring Fall Total Spring Fall Total Spring Fall Total Spring Fall Total Spring Fall Total Spring Fall Total
Sorghum          7     -     7       7     -     7      5.5    -    5.5    4.5    -    4.5    2.5        -   2.5     2       - 2.0
(for silage)
Soya             -    3.5   3.5           3.5    3.5    -    2.8   2.8       -    2.3   2.3              --          -            -
Sesame           -    3.5   3.5      -    3.5    3.5    -    2.7   2.7       -    2.2   2.2      -       -    -       -      -
Pasture          1    1     2 1/    1    1       2      2.5   2.5   5       3.5   3.5   7       4.5    4.5  9        4.5   4.5  9
Forage           -     -     -             -       -     -     -      -      -      -     -     1       1    2       1.5   1.5  3
Fallow           -     -     -                    -         -     -      -         -      -      -      2.5  2.5      -    2    2
Total            8     8    16       8     8    16       8     8    16       8      8    16      8      8   16       8      8   16
1/ - Pasture and forage crops occupy land in both spring and fall.  Each ha of these
crops is therefore counted twice in ccnputing the total crop area of the fan1.



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECTIONS OF CROPPED AREA (ha)
Year:       1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9           10           11
Field Crops
Sorghum           850         2310        3450        4380         5180        5930        5930        5930         5930        5930         5930
Sesame            505         1423        2358         3204        4012        4648        4245        3775         3370        3040         3040
Maize             755          1975        3010        3980        4855        5695        5695        5695         5695        5695         5695
Cotton            420         1160        1820         2480        3100        3700        3700        3700         3700        3700         3700
Soybeans          585         1653        2783         3924        5026        5955        5558        5090         4670        4325         4325
Glro'undnu±s       160          310         475         670         865        1060         1060        1060        1060        1060         1060
Tomatoes           85          285         480          705         920        1130        1130        1130         1130        1130         1130
Sub-Total        3360         9116       14376        19343       23958       28118       27318       26380        25555       24880        24880 -
Fodder Crops
Sorghum
(for silage)       0          315        1015        1823         2678        3350        2778        2103         1590        1215         1140
Pasture              0           45         145         338         682        1165        1615        2115         2415        2565         2565
Forage               0            0           0           0           0          45         167          342         555         780          855
Sub-Total            0          360        1160        2161        3360        4560        4560        4560         4560        4560         4560
Total        3360         9476       15536       21504       27318        32678       31878       30940       30115       29440         29440
2   Corresponding to 12,440 ha. double cropped
2/  Corresponding to 12,440 ha. double cropped & 4,560 ha. single cropped = 17,000 ha.



ANNEX 15
Table 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yield Projections (Crop Farms)
Year
1       2       3     4        5
------    (ton/ha)------ -
Crop
Sorghum                  2.40    2.70   2.85  3.00    3.00
Sesame                   0.56    0.63   0.67  0.70    0.70
Maize                    2.00    2.25   2.38  2.50    2.50
Cotton (seed cotton)/!  1.26    1.44   1.62  1.71    1.80
Soybeans                  1.44    1.62   1.71  1.80    1.80
Groundnuts (Unshelled)/2 1.12    1.28   1.44  1.52    1.60
11      (Vine)        1.40    1.60   1.80  1.90    2.00
Tomato                   10.50   12.00  13.50 14.25   15.00
/1   Lint Yield = 34%, Seed Yield = 60%, Waste = 6%.
/2   Shelled ground nuts would be 61% of the unshelled ground nuts in weight.
April 20, 1972



ANNEX 15
Table 5
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Prolections
Yield Projections (Dairy Farms)
Year
1              2
and later
- ton/ha -----
Crop
Sorghum for Silage or
Forage (1,000 f.u.) /1            2.50            2.50
Soya (ton)                         1.35            1.35
Sesame (ton)                       0.52            0.52
Pasture (1,000 f.u.)               3.60            6.00
Forage (1,000 f.u.)                4.80            8.00
/1   f.u. - fodder unit, nutrient equivalent of 1 kg of barley.
April 20, 1972



SECOND AThANTICO DEVOPfM               PROJECT
Developmoent,,Po.ieetions.
Dairy Farm  Herd ani Sales Projection (8 ha Farm  Unit)
I tc:rn                  unit    Year 1        2       3       1      5       6       7       8       9       to
- - - - -  - - - - -End of year Herd Composition -
(No)      10         10      10      13      15     17      18      20      20
n-'niaf ';eifers           (xo)       -          -        3       3       3       4      6       4       3       3
Heif"r cal-vec             Co)         3          6       6       7     10      10       7       6       6       6
tn- in ^1 --,its           (NTo)      11         13      16      19      22     26      27      27      26      26
-- - - - - --   - - - - - --Rirth - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
t±eifer calves             ("o)        3          3       3       1:     6       7       7       7       8       8
3all c.lves                (No)        4          4       4       4       6       7      7       8       9       9
Tczal                      (No)        7          7       7       8      12     14      1li     15      17      17
-    -  - -  - - - - - - -Purchases - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
(?No)     10         -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       _
o al. I                    (No)  1     0         -       -       -       -      -       - _             - _
- - - - - - - - - - - - Milk Production- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
MUlK produotion            (K)    12,000   13,000  14,000 19,500 22,500 28,900 30,600 314,000 36,000 36,00o
''!k - cAlf  feeding       (Kg)        600       6oo      600    80o  1,200    800    600    600    600    600
- - -                       -Sales - - - - - - - - - -
(No)      _          _       _       _        1       1       3      4        4      3
:'eifer et!-des            (No)       _          _       _       _                3      4       4       5       5
.l-lves                 (?o)         4          4      b       4       6       7       7      8       9       9
Total    'rals              (o )                   4       4 4 4          7      11     14      16      18      17
.'i'>                   (Y\)    11,1100   12,1100  13,100 18,700 21,300 28,100 30,000 33,400 35,1400 35,400
.l,i,. Coefficients
intervals         12 nonths
~csCeC'.ion rate           70lo  for year 1 and 2; 75% year 3 and IJ; 80o  year 5 to 8; 85¢ year 9 a.nd 10.,
Cruli.; rate               a', from year 1 to 4; 4; yea.-.r 5; 1P - year 6 avnd 21%, or more from year 7 to 10.  No
cullin,, would be made in the first four years beeausa the initial ten cow; would be purchased
at the above market price and expected to be healthy anrtnal: to start with.
Mortali+                   This was added to the costs, taken at 2%C of the hord v-alue.
>11k 7-ie' d1,200 Kg per cow in year 1; increasing to 1,800 Kg per cow by years 9 a_nd 10.



COLONBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODUCTION PROJECTIONS
A. Field Crops
Year:      1           2           3           4           5           6            7           8           9            10           11
Crop              --------------------____-------------------------------Tons  / ---------------------------------------
Sorghum             2000        5800        9100        12000       14600       17000       17400        17700       17800        17800       17800
Sesame               300         800        1400         1900        2500        2900        2700         2500        2300         2100        2100
Maize               1500        4100        6600         9100       11300       13500        13900       14100       14200        14200        14200
Cottoni              500        1500        2600         3700        4800        5900        6300         6500        6600         6700        6700
Soybeans             800        2500        4300         6200        8000        9600        9300         8800        8200         7800         7800
C--oundnut s         200         400         600           900        1200        1500        1600        1600        1700          1700        1700
Tomato               900        3100        5600         8600       11700       14900       15800        16500       16800        17000        17000
B. Dairy Farm Production
Item
Year  1        2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9        10        11        12        13        14        15
Milk (1000 1.)  0        500      1700    3300    5400    8100    9600   11600   14000   16100    18000    19100    19900    20200    20200
Cattle for sale
Cows  (0o.)    0        0        0         0        0       50      150      350      750    1250       1650      2000      2000      1850      1700
Female
Calves !No.)  0         0        0         0        0         0     150      500      950    1600       2300      2550      2700      2850      2850
Bull
Calves(,o.)   0        200      600      1100    1700    2350    2600    2950    3450    4050           4400      4700      5000      5150      5150               e4
1/ Figures rounded to nearest 100
2/ Figures rounded to nearest 50 or 100
3/  Yields of unshelled groundnuts (shelled = 61% of unshelled)



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Feed Requirement and Supply of
the Dairy Farm (per 8 ha Farm)
Item
Feed Requirements (1,000 feed unitsl/)   1        2       3      4      5       6        7       8       9        10
Feed for maintenance               14.5    17.1    21.0   25.0   28.9   34.2    35.5    35.5    34.2        34.2
Feed for miLk production            3.6     3.9     4.2    5.8    6.7    8.7      9.2    10.2    10.8       10.8
Sub-total                          18.1    21.0    25.2   30.8   35.6   42.9    44.7    45.7    45.0        45.0
Security margin (10%)               1.8     2.1     2.5    3.1    3.6    4.3      L.4      4.5     4.5       4.5
Sub-total                          19.9    23.1    27.7   33.9   39.2   47.2    49.1    50.2    49.5        49.5
Milk for the offspring             -0.7    -0.7    -0.7   -1.0   -1.4   -1.0    -0.7    -0.7    -0.7        -0.7
Total                              19.2    22.4    27.0   32.9   37.8   46.2    48.4    49.5    48.8        48.8
Feed Supply (1,000 feed units- )
Pasture                             3.6     6.o   1l.4   18.6   24.6   27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0         27.0
Forage                              -       -      -        -      4.8   10.4    12.0    12.0    12.0       12.0
Sorghum                            17.5    17.5    13.8   11.2    6.2    5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0
Grorndnut hay                       -       -       1.5    1.8    1.8    1.8      1.8      1.8     1.8       1.8
Oil-cake                            -       -       0.3    1.3    0.4    2.0      2.6      3.7     3.0       3.0
Total                              21.1    23.5    27.0   32.9   37.8   46.2    48.4    49.5    48.8        48.8
1/   Feed Unit is the amount of feedstuff equal in nutrient value to 1 kg of barley.
Local experiments show 10 kg of digestible material of the Engleton, para or
elephant grasses equal to about 1 feed unit.
AA



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVEIL)PNCT PROJECT
Projected Farm Income (8-ha farm type A)
Gross Value         Var. Prod.  Net            Cropped Area    Net;leturns
Crop          Yield           Price              of Production          Costs   Returns             per Famw     per Pamu  1/
7ton/ha)      (Col $/,ton)       - - - - - - - - - - - -t(Col $/ha)  - -  -             (ha)        (Col $)
Sesame           0.7          kasOO                    3,360             1,40o      1,960               2           3,920
Maize            2.5          1,760                    4,4oo             2,599       1,801              4            7,200
Cotton           1.8         4i,200                    7,560             3,794      3,766               2            7,530
Soybeans         1.8          2,800                   5,o°4o             2,631      2,1409              4           9,64o
Groun&uts (nuts)1.6           3,200                    5,120)            3,569      2,251               4           9,000
(hay) 2.0            350                     700)                                                       _
Total                                                                                             16           37,290
Inco  and Expnditurs per Farm
(Col *)
Not Returns (exluding labor)                                       ),2"0
Hired labor (22 man-days)                                             440
Cash Returnm                                                       36,850
Project Charges                                                7,400
Income before Tax                                                  29,1450
1/  Rounded figures



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTIC DEVEIO.DStT PROJECT
Projected Farm Income (8-ha farm type B1)
Gross Value   Var. Prod.       Net         Cropped Area   Net Returns
'Crop           Yield           Price         of Production    Costa         Returns        Per Farm        ur Fam
(to7ha)       (CoI $7ton)     - - - - -  - -  (0-Co1    ha) - _ _ _ _ _        (a)             ol *
Sorghum               3.0           1,350             4,050        2,710          1,340            2            2,680
Maize                  2.5           1,760            4'4°OO        2,599         1,801             4           7,200
Cotton                1.8           4,200             7,560        3,794          3,766            4           15,060
Soybeans              1.8           2,800             5,040        2,631          2,409            3            7,220
Gr.undnubt  (muts)    1.6           3,200             5,120)       3,569         2,251             1           2,250
(hay)         2.0             350               700)
Tomatoes             15.0              700           10,500        5,o38          5,462            2           10,920
Total                                                                                         16          45,330
Income and Expenditures per Farm
(Col $)
Net Returns (excluding labor)                                               45,330
Hired labor (180 man-days)                                                   3,600
Cash Returns                                                                41,730
Project Charges                                                      71400
Income before Tax                                                          34,330
1/ Rounded figures



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVEIOFMENT PROJECT
Projected Fanr Income (8-ha farm type B2)
Gross Value  Var. Prod.        Net        Cropped Area  Net Retarns
Crop           Yield           Price        of Production    Costs        Returns         Or f asr farm1
(ton/ha      (Co. 4/ton)     - - - - - - - TCol${/ha) - - - - - - ha)   
Sorghum             3.0            1,350            4,050         2,710        1,340            4             5,360
Sesame              0.7            4,800            3,360         1,1400       1,960            3             5,880
Maize                2.5           1,760            4,400         2,599        1,801            2              3,600
Cotton              1.8            4,200            7,560         3,794        3,766            4            15,060
Soybeans            1.8            2,800            5,040         2,631        2,409            2             4,820
Tomatoes           15.0              700           10,500         5,o38        5,462            1              5,460
Total                                                                                      16             4o,18o
Income and Elenditures per Famu
(Col $)
Net Returns (excluding labor)                                           40,180
Hired labor (122 man-days)                                                2J440
Cash Returns                                                             37,740
Project Charges                                                   e7,4oo
Income before Tax                                                       30,340
1/ Rounded figures



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Farm Income (8 ha farnm type B3)
Gross Value   Var. Prod.        Net        Cropped Area   Not Returns
Crop            Yield           Price         of Production    Costa         Returns        per Fam        per Fan 
(ton )        (C61 $jto)7          --- ----- T-T$7ha)  - - -    a)
Maize                 2.5            1,760            4,4OO         2,599        1,801              5            9,000
Sorghum               3.0           1,350             4,o5o         2,10O         1,340             6             8,040
Sesame                0.7           4,800             3,360         1,400         1,960             2             3,920
Soybeans              1.8           2,800             5,040         2,631         2,409             3             7220
Total                                                                                          16            28,180
Income and E^penditures per Farm
(Col $)
Not Returns (excluding labor)                                 28,180
Hired labor                                                        0
Cash Returns                                                  28,180
Project Charges                                          7,W
Income before Tax                                            20,780
1/ Rounded figures



COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Farm Income (8-ha farm type C)
Gross Value         Var. Prod.        Net Returns
Sale                  Units           Price              of Production          Costs            per Farm  1/
(Col$/un7it)           - - - - - - - - - -  (Col $) - - - - - - - - - -
Cattle                  3             2,386                   7,160
Heifer Calves           5               530                   2,650
Male Calves             9                177                  1,590
Milk (kg)          35,400                  1.9               67,260
Production Costs
Pasture                                                                          3,735
Forage                                                                           6,74)
Sorghum                                                                          4,980
Groundnuts                                                                       2,070
Oil-Cake                                                                         5,160
Other Costs                                                                      9 970
78,6bo             32,655            46,005
Income and Expenditures per Farm (Col $)
Net Returns (excluding labor       46,005
Hired Labor (60.5 man days)         1,210
Credit Repayments                  11,500
Cash Returns                       33,295
Project Charges                7,400
Income before Tax                  25,895
1/ Rounded figures
2/ Repayments to credit borrowed for on-farm investment, including cows, sheds, fencing, silage
pits, haystore, equipment and others.






ANNEX 17
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The following assumptions were made in calculating the economic
rate of return;
(a) a 40-year project life period from the beginning of con-
s truction;
(b) US$6.8 million project cost for economic analysis purpose;
the difference between this figure and the US$9.69 million
presented in paragraph 5.08 is accounted for by the exclu-
sion of (i) purchase of land by INCORA (US$1.29 million);
(ii) price escalation (US$0.30 million); (iW) purchase of farm
machinery (US$0.82 million) which is included under current
farm production costs; (iv) the investment in dairy farms
(US$2.22 million), which is included under production costs
in the farm budgets; (v) the inclusion of US$1.76 million
investment under Loan 502-CO for flood protection of about
6,000 ha -- the returns from these areas are included under
the benefit stream; and (vii) rounding of figures;
(c) all replacement costs for pumps and other project equipment
are included on a prorata basis in the US$0.2 million
annual operation and maintenance clarges;
(d)  prices (page 3) are based on the projected 1978-80 world
market prices for sorghum, maize, sesame, soybeans, and
cotton local market prices have been used for tomatoes,
milk and cattle; for peanuts, half the crop has been priced
at the rate charged for average Nigerian export quality and
the other half at confectionary quality rates; and
(e) a five-year development period following allotment for farms
producing field crops and nine years for farms specializing
in dairy production.
2.        There is considerable unemployment and under-employment in the
project area, and the nearby cities of Cartagena and Barranquilla have
unemployment rates as high as 25% and 18%. Many able-bodied persons go to
Venezuela for jobs but this is, at best, an uncertain prospect for them.
Under these conditions, the opportunity cost of family labor has been
treated as being zero. Hired labor has been costed at the going rate of 20
pesos per day.



ANNEX 17
Page   2
3.        Using the above assumptions, the cost and incremental benefits
streams from the project would be as follows:
Year             Project Cost        Incremental Benefits
1                  1.02                      0.08
2                  2.02                      0.28
3                  2.11                      0.53
4                  1.47                      0.81
5                  0.47                      1.12
6                  0.29                      1.43
7                 0.18                       1.68
8                  0.18                      1.88
9                  0.18                      2.06
10                  0.18                      2.21
11                  0.18                      2.36
12                 0.18                       2.44
13                 0.18                       2.51
14                  0.18                      2.54
15                  0.18                      2.52
16                  0.18                      2.52
40                  0.18                      2.52
Rate of Return: 23.0%
4.        Various sensitivity tests were made as shown in the following
table. One of the tests costs farm family labor at the daily wage rate,
while other tests are based on farm family labor costed at zero. The
tests show that even when the family labor is costed at Col$ 20 per man-
day, the project still has a 15% rate of return:
Assumption                         Rate of Return (%)
a)   Project costs increased by 20%                      19
b)   Benefits reduced by costing family labor            15
c)   Benefits reduced by 20%                             19
April 20, 1972



COLOMBIA
SECOi'm ATLANTICO DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local and World Market Prices for Major Products
Current
Product       Local. Price                                  "World Market Price
1971                                  1978/80
Col. $               US $               Col. $               US $ (constant)   Col. $
-  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - per metric ton - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
3orghum                1,350                 55.00                1,155             61.10               1,285
3esame                 4,800                305.00                6,405             205.15              4,310
Maize                  1,760                 60.00                1,260              63.70               1,340
Soybeans               2,8o0                132.00                2,770            102.00                2,140
Peanuts (unshelled)
-Nigerian qVAlty   3,200                 153.10                3,215            104lO80              2,200
-confection qual.                        231.80 1/            4,870              156.151)            3,28C
Cotton 2/              4.,200               291.00                6,110             24.2.20              5,085
-lint                                    66o.oo               13,860            550.00              11,550
-seed                                    111.00                2,330              92.00              1,930
1/  f.o.b. Barranquilla
2/ assuming 34% lirut, 60% seed and 6% waste



I



754        To Cattqgeno-                                 'I  SabantOlrga                                                                To Ba,r.f"nlil 1/  74-52               To Borranquil52
CZ-CLG -(MoB  -1A0
ATLANTICO Il PROJECT-REVISED STAGE I&I. \7
-IC32'             EXISTING  FEATURES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0°52
____Mcin roads                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                            7  ?       
Roads with embankment                                      _otinet
g   /  Gu iauro dam  and reservoir                      t                 <   9  r<               J   :   ::      ffi g as7Aqgoda de Poblo
Canal dol D qon                                                                                                                                                                         Letta
- Streom  ;;0CS\-awn)\X9   /
-.,Aro   Lcptiblo to ter,potay flooding                                                                                                                                                                     REEROIR00               t.Giod
PROJECT  FEATURES                                    R       bse1G.                       a r        0                                                                                                                                     a   ore
Sccondary noads                                                     Ro  2 :s  a:   !  i  r v                                                                                              \ r; /             f,,n33  /    L       j
0:
Roaod with embankment/  f 11                                              ;;1;                   /                _                                                                   O\                                         /
Ausilior yomoankments                               I|                              p>n                        MAAT  P33/T  TOiSOl m         g     j(g>So            X >       qi9ot           odhic                    / 
RE20T0                         eRESVO/                                                      ;Lo        aneara
Lateral drainage canATInPILOT PJECrs                                                                                         /                                E
_Main  5/igrig  on canaol s                              \t3:z03.iCt3 10                               ar              I
U  -oping Plants                                                                                                      373                                          'carrtZI
L=>~  Rn-ntonir. LIQOO                                                                                                                                     
Ftistreg irrigated areas
PdF ro1oect < lajnds>7yt_        /1°Z'
Pilot ornjnnt                 ~~~~Villa Rosa
CioniAbonori Stro    \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i6b
7        -                                                                                                  B~-7 -  roo
N\VO et) \-~ ATLANTICO N03 PROJECr
03  .~~~~~~~~O'2 ~~~~~LOAN 502C0, Stags I
3-I t  z|                                                           Part I rrigted Area
BEot                                                               En,gBq.as Pn.mEig Pla-t
-     I          gI  fFBogotr                      (                                      San Pedrito P-mpsg Plant                                                 t
05'                COLOMBIA                          /                                      r       hi                                                                                       \t 
.C :L'OM  BA                                                           Part 11 Dry Farming Area
<'|                                             ° RoAdZ I I loale 30iCnd,rood along Dmrin V0
Ii IJASiOR    IB                                                                      NEW  LOAN   St-a. If04                                                                                                                                              
'03                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-rt 11 Dry Far-ir,g Ar.a                                                                            N PEo310                        ioeterov
!  °   00  000n    003    400  300  '0  ! /alorffl A                                                                                                                                                    o  PedrBo
< o, ro  air0    joo  , 75°B' 7000                                                                                                                              To Mede1l,                                                           74js2
io    taR D   32 4 5 R



