E-319
Annex 10
Bulgaria
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan
1. Overview:
Since the Trade and Transport facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project is unlikely to
have significant adverse environmental impacts, the project has been rated accordingly as
Category B. To prevent. minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however, this
Enivironmental Management Plan (EMP) and a set of mitigatory measures have been prepared.
Upon review with the client government it will be signed as an attachment to the PIP.
2. Minimization of negative impact:
The major concerns about possible negative site-specific impacts associated with border crossings
relate to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of disinfectants
and spills of oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site disruptions caused
by upgrades or relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings, parking/waiting areas,
and access roads.
Ihe objective of the TTFSE, to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including
the simplification of paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce
standing time and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road side
waste, garbage and litter will also be reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical
investment, largely limited to the improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential
threat. Specific actions included in the EMP (see Exhibit 1) to further.minimize potentially
negative impact and promote institutional development include:
o Liaison with Environmental Authorities
Training and Sensitization
*  Site Certification
*  Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
'  Provisions in Construction Contracts
a. Liaison with Environmental Authorities
Although liaison is already provided through the Inter-ministerial Council on Border Crossing
Points, contact between th-e Bulgarian Customs Administration (BCA) and the Ministry of
Environment and Waters (MoEW) needs to be intensified. This will be achieved through the
appointment of an environmental officer in the BCA who will be responsible for liaison,
monitoring, and reporting
On environmental issues and the EMP to the Project Implementation Team (PIT) of the TTFSE.'
Incorporation of the functions of the environmental officer into the overall, long-term
The MoEW has already designated the existing MoEW support staff serving the Inter-Ministerial Council
on Cross Border Points as the MoEW liaison for the TTFSE; they would be supervised by the
representative of the MoEW serving on the Inter-Ministerial Council (MoEW management at the level of



I



responsibilities of the BCA will be reviewed as part of the reform process and capacity building
process of the BCA. Environmental issues will be included in the public information program to
be provided by the BCA.
b. Training and Sensitization
The BCA environmental officer, in collaboration with the MoEW, will assist the TTFSE training
consultant in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the customs
service relating to the importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures
and guidelines based on the national environmental regulations will be developed.  In
coordination with the appropriate associated ministries and agencies providing control functions
at the border such specialized training in support of veterinary and phyto-sanitary pre-inspections
will be designed. Training on the control of the hunting and gathering of endangered flora and
fauna will also be covered.
c. Site Certification
In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all stations,
the BCA environmental officer, jointly with a representative of the Ministry of Environment and
WVaters, will inspect all border crossings scheduled for investment under the TTFSE or marked as
pilot sites. The MoEW will review the capacity and appropriate jurisdiction to participate in
these inspections. On the basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and procedures a
letter of certification of compliance will be issued. Particular attention will be given to assure
corrective procedures relating to (i) the use of disinfecting pits at border crossings, (ii) the storage
and use of disinfecting materials and chemicals at sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control
of waste materials including hazardous materials, and (iv) the control of road-side litter and
garbage.
Ji. Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular attention
Will be given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental officer will consult
*with the Ministry of Environment and waters to ensure progressive application of appropriate
standards and to ensure collaboration with relevant environmental programs and activities funded
by the EU. Progress in this area will be regularly reported to the PIT and included in reports to
the Bank. In addition, the project will also enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of
international conventions and agreements relating to the environment.
Especially relevant would be the regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European
Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of
September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable
Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September
1970: and (iv) the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous
Wastes and their Disposal of May 1992.
e. Provisions in Construiction Contracts
Although not required by current national environmental regulations, environmental reports will
be prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact and suggest mitigation
Deputy Minister).



I



Exhibit 1
Liaison with Environmental 1 The BCA will designate an environmental officer who in collaboration
Authorities                 with the PiTwill be responsible for: (i) liaison with environmental
officials of the Ministry of Environment and Waters; (ii) the review and
monitoring of the EMP; (iii) the provision of periodic status reports to
the PIT; (iv) consultations with such interested parties as NGOs; and
(iv) and the provision of support for supervision missions. The
anvermment will assuire that the BCA environmental officer has access
to information relevant to the project and environmental compliance.
ITraining and Sensitization    The BCA in collaboration with environmental officials of the Ministry
of Environment and Waters will provide training and sensitization of
staff at each border crossing. Standard procedures will be specified.
Special training will be offered for pre-inspection skills in such related
areas as veterinary and phyto-sanitary inspections and in support of the
protection of endangered species.
Certification of Acceptable   The Ministry of Environment and Waters, jointly with the BCA
Practice at Border          environmental officer, will inspect each border crossing scheduled for
Crossings                   investment under the TTFSE or marked as pilot sites for certification of
the acceptability of practices and minimization of environmental impact|
at all stations. Particular attention will be given to (i) the use of
disinfecting pits, (ii) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and
chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste
materials including hazardous materials, and (iv) the control of road-
side litter and garbage.
Harmonization of Standards  One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
international standards. The environmental officer will consult with the
Ministry of Environment and Waters periodically on progress and
provide progress reports to the PIT. The BCA environmental officer
will ensure compliance with evolving regulatory requirements and
conventions.
Construction                Designs for new construction will include an environmental report with
plans for the minimization of negative impacts. Contract documents
will contain clauses requiring minimization of noise, dust, and waste
disposal during construction. All works will comply with local
| environmental regulations where applicable.
[January 2000]



