Report No. PID9245
Project Name                     Bulgaria-The Trade and Transport (@+)
Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project,
one of six regionally-linked projects
under the TTFSE Program
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       BGPE70086
Borrower(s)                      Government of Bulgaria
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           June 27, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        January 11, 1999
Appraisal Date                   December 13-16, 1999
Board Date                       May 25, 2000
Background- The collapse of the Soviet Union and the break-up of the
Yugoslav Federation led to radical changes in the direction of traffic flows
and the creation of new frontiers and customs services. Performance of the
border control agencies has been unsatisfactory: traffic has been subject to
long waiting times, raising the cost of transport services and making them
unpredictable; customs revenue collection has fallen short; and smuggling and
corruption have become widespread. These deficiencies have amounted to
bottlenecks to trade, with macro-economic effects similar to those of
protectionist trade policies. They undermine competitiveness and deter
foreign direct investment.
To address these problems, the EU has been advising Romania and Bulgaria on
customs reform and computerization, as part of its pre-accession assistance.
In Bosnia/Herzegovina it has provided substantial direct operational support
to build up the customs administrations after the war and likewise in Albania
after the civil unrest of 1995-97. The Southeast European Cooperative
Initiative (SECI) has, in parallel, set up national "PRO" committees to
mobilize public and private sectors to simplify procedures and otherwise
facilitate trade. In this connection the governments of Albania,
Bosnia/Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, FYR Macedonia and Romania have each
asked the Bank to finance improvements to border crossing points
Program Objectives and Description- The border crossing problem, by its
nature, requires coordinated and mutually reinforcing action in many areas.
The Program therefore aims to integrate the efforts of the EU, SECI and the
World Bank Group for: (a) physical improvements to border crossings, (b)
technical assistance to strengthen the customs administrations, (c)
computerization of procedures at the border crossings and electronic filing
of customs declarations, and (d) improved exchange of information between the
border control agencies and the business community, through seminars and the
development of Internet web sites ("trade facilitation"). At the regional



(i.e. international) level a steering committee has been created to provide a
forum for the exchange of experience among the countries, the collective
aligning of procedures on EU standards, and the coordination of operating
practices at "paired" crossing points. Thereby the Program aims to: (i)
reduce costs to trade and transport; (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at
border crossings; and (iii) strengthen regional partnerships and expand
regional trade.
Project Costs and Financing- The total cost of the project in Bulgaria is
estimated at US$ 12.5 million equivalent. An IBRD loan of US$ 7.4 million
equivalent would finance about 59 percent of this total. The US government
has been asked to provide grant funding of about $ 1.5 million. The
government will finance the remaining US$ 3.6 million, about 29 percent of
the total estimated cost. The EU is providing additional assistance through
on-going grants.
Project Components- The project will cover : (i) elements of Customs
Administration Institutional Reform (US$0.9 million); (ii) support to the
private sector via training and provision of information (US$0.5 million);
(iii) participation in a regional experience sharing program on integrated
systems for border agencies (US$0.1 million); (iv) improvement of border
crossing facilities (US$10.5 million); and (v) services to implement the
project and the program (US$0.6 million).
Preparation and Implementation- The Project is one of six nearly
simultaneous country operations linked under the TTFSE Program. The projects
will be implemented over three years, starting in the fall of 2000. The
borrower for each World Bank loan/IDA credit will be the government. The
customs agencies will be responsible for implementing most components,
although the border police will also be involved in some countries. Trade
facilitation activities will be hosted by the chambers of commerce in
cooperation with national PRO-Committees established under the Southeast
Europe Cooperative Initiative (SECI). The regional steering committee is
responsible for coordination across countries. Each government is
represented by a high-level project coordinator authorized to speak on behalf
of all border control agencies. To the extent possible the project
implementation teams are being built around officials already managing the EU
assistance and SECI coordinating functions; they are to assist procurement
and loan management. The Project Implementation Team in Bulgaria has already
been established.
The loan for Bulgaria was negotiated April 5-7 and was approved by the Board
on May 25, 2000. It should become effective by August 31, 2000. Romania and
FYR Macedonia are also well advanced in preparing their projects. Credits or
loans for the remaining three countries are expected to be negotiated by
early Fall 2000.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:            (202) 522-1500
- 2 -



Task Manager
Graham Smith
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2472
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 30, 2000.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



