Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20036-BUL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 7.73 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR THE
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
May 3, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 7, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lev (BGL)
1 BGL= 0.498 US$
1 US$= 2.01 BGL
1 US$ = 1.045 Euro
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA           Automated System for Customs Data
APL         Adjustable Program Lending
BCA         Bulgarian Customs Administration
BCCI         Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
BCP         Border Crossing Point
BICIS        Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System
EDI        Electronic Data Interchange
EU         The European Union
FMS         Financial Management System
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IRU        International Road Transport Union
LAN         Local Area Network
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
PIT        Project Implementation Team
RSC         Regional Steering Committee
SAD         Single Administrative Document
SECI        Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TIR        Transport International Routier
TOR         Termns of Reference
TTFSE         Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UN-ECE          United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
WAN          Wide Area Network
WCO          World Customs Organization
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:          Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Director:           Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:            Eva Molnar, ECS1N
Program Team Leader:       Graham Smith, ECSIN
Task Manager:              Gerald Ollivier, ECSIN



REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A.  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ............................................................. 3
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ............                                     ................................................................ 3
2. KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ............................................................................ 3
B.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT ..............................................................                                                                                4
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ......4
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  ..........................................  .............................. 4
3. SECTOR  ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED  BY  THE PROJECT AND  STRATEGIC CHOICES ............                                                    ....................... 7
C.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ..............................................................     7
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS ............................................................................ 7
2. KEY  POLICY  AND  INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED  BY  THE PROJECT  ...............                                                ........................... 8
3. BENEFITS AND  TARGET POPULATION  ........................                                     .................................................... 9
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ........................................                                       ......................... 10
D.  PROJECT RATIONALE ..............................................................                                                                               12
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED  AND REASONS FOR REJECTION  ................                                                  .............................. 12
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ............ 1 3
3. LESSONS LEARNED  AND REFLECTED  IN THE PROJECT DESIGN  ............................                                       ............................... 13
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER  COMMITMENT AND  OWNERSHIP ............................                                           ............................... 14
5. VALUE ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT .......................................................................... 14
E.  SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ..............................................................                                                                        15
1. ECONOMIC ............................................................................                                                                 15
2. FINANCIAL AND FISCAL ............................................................................  15
3. TECHNICAL ............................................................................                                                                 15
4. INSTITUTIONAL ............................................................................                                                            16
5. SOCIAL ............................................................................                                                                    16
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .............................6............                                                                               .... 16
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .17
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .18
1. SUSTAINABILITY.18
2. CRITICAL RISKS.19
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS.20
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS .........................................                                                                                                  20
1. EFFE CTIVENESS CONDITIONS .........................................                                                                                   20
2. OTHER . C                                     ... .................................... 20
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .........................................                                                                                          21
I.  COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .........................................                                                                                        21
iii



ANNEXES
ANNEX I    PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
ANNEX 2    DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ANNEX 3    ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX 4    COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF THE TOTAL PROJECT INVESTMENT
ANNEX 5    FINANCIAL SUMMARY
ANNEX 6    PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A   PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE Al CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A2  PROCUREMENT PLAN
TABLE B   THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
TABLE B 1 CAPACITY OF THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY IN PROCUREMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
TABLE C   ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
ANNEX 7    PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX 8    DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 9    STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
ANNEX 10   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
ANNEX 11   BULGARIAN CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION STRATEGY
ANNEX 12   EU SUPPORT TO CUSTOMS REFORM IMPLEMENTATION
ANNEX 13   COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
MAPS No. 30859 AND 30431
iv



REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Date: April 28, 2000                              Program Team Leader: Graham Smith
Country Manager/Director: Andrew Vorkink          Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 7E-PE-70086                            Sector: TY- Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan         Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes [X ] No
Project Financing Data             [IX] Loan      [ ] Credit     [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: EUR 7.73 million (US$7.4 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                       L ]  Multicurrency    [X] LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan
in Euro
[ ]  Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed
Grace period (years):     5
Years to maturity:        20
Commitment fee:           0.75% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any
waiver.
Front-end fee on Bank loan: 1 %
Financing plan, including taxes (US$m):
Source                            Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                 3.6                0.0              3.6
United States (US)                                         0.2                1.3              1.5
IBRD                                                        1.9               5.5              7.4
Total:                                                      5.8               6.8             12.5
Borrower: Bulgaria
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M)-
FY                                     FY2001 FY2002  FY2003
Annual                       1.2      3.7     2.5
Cumulative                       1.2     4.9      7.4
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date:    August 31 , 2000         Expected closing date:   December 31, 2003
Implementing agency: Capital Investments Department, MOF
Contact person: Nedialka Cholakova
Address: 102 Rakovsky Str. 1040 Sofia, Bulgaria
Tel: + 359 2 9859 2705/09  Fax: + 359 2 980 6863         E-mail: n.cholakova@minfin.aovernment.bg



Page 2
The TTFSE Proiect: Key Design Concepts
How does this project differ from the typical project?
Reszional Character. The six TTFSE projects are regionally linked in a program supporting
Bulgaria, Romania, FYR Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia in their efforts
to foster trade. All these countries are beneficiaries of the Stability Pact'. They seek to promote
more efficient and less costly trade flows across their borders and provide EU-compatible customs
standards. This requires cooperation among the participating countries and a mutual sharing of
concerns for the reform of their Customs services. To assist such cooperation and facilitate the
sharing of informnation, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) has been created. All participating
countries are represented on this committee and have signed a Memorandum of Understanding
detailing its role and activities. The United States (US) is funding a secretariat for the RSC and
experts to assist each government in procurement management.
Reform Combined with the Provision of Infrastructure. The project will support the
implementation of on-going customs reforms and focus on integrated solutions at selected pilot
sites located on main European corridors. Customs reform is an essential part of the activities
Bulgaria needs to undertake to join the European Union. These pilots will increase the productivity
of border agencies, enabling shorter processing time at border crossings and inland terminals.
Reforms and pilots will need to be supported at some border crossings by the upgrading of
infrastructure. The project will finance physical improvements at these border crossings, once
critical elements of reform proceed.
Non-Duplicative Structure. The TTFSE program seeks to help the Customs services implement
reform in a way least costly to the government. Governments will continue on-going customs
reforms supported by the European Union (EU) and will use grant funding from the EU and the US
for most of the technical assistance.
Participatory Approach. The design and implementation of the TTFSE project is based on
participatory methodology to ensure that the projects belong to the participating countries and are
endorsed and owned by the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries. Consultations with
customs officials and users have occurred during the design phase and mechanisms are built into
the project to obtain regular user input in the monitoring and, evaluation process.
Building on Previous/Ongoing Initiatives. Several international organizations have recognized
the need to help countries in the region improve transit across borders and have provided assistance
to start addressing it. The EU was the first to assist countries in the region to address this issue. Its
experience highlights the need for comprehensive reforms and carefully selected upgrading of
infrastructure. The Southeast European Cooperative Initiative2 also promotes economic and
environmental cooperation among the countries in the region, with a focus on efficient transit, and
combating corruption and smuggling.
'The Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, adopted in Cologne on June 10, 1999 at a special meeting of foreign
ministers, representatives of international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives concerned with South
East Europe, commits these parties to the adoption of a comprehensive, coordinated and strategic approach to the
region, replacing crisis management with preventive diplomacy.
2 Consisting of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Moldova, Romania,
Slovenia, FYR Macedonia and Turkey, established in December 1996.



Page 3
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project Development Objectives (see Annex 1)
The proposed project forms part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast
Europe3 that aims to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control
agencies in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and Romania. The Program, the result of a collaborative effort between the Governments, the
Bank, the EU and the US, seeks two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The Program will achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting customs reform; (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between border control agencies and the trading community;
(iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure
and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new
customs procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques, supporting
infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms4 for agencies at border crossings. The financing of
infrastructure will be dependent upon the successful implementation of the reforms, notably the
application of targeting and selectivity techniques.
In Bulgaria, the EU, based on its long experience in the country, will continue to lead external support for
the implementation of the Strategic Plan (Annex 11) of the Bulgarian Customs Administration (BCA).
This is part of the EU pre-accession process. The EU support to the customs reform strategy (Annex 12)
includes the following main activities: (i) legal and operational strengthening of customs; (ii) border
control and efficiency improvements; and (iii) enforcement and combating corruption. The reform
process necessary to change institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is expected to take a substantial
time, about 8 to 10 years. The reform involves simultaneous and sustained actions on (i) change in
administrative and operational procedures; (ii) definition of staff profiles for the organization and hiring,
training and deployment according to them; (iii) elaboration and implementation of a staff development
plan; and (iv) introduction of up-to-date information technology and regional interconnections. This
project will provide support to implement the customs reform at border crossings and inland terminals
during the first phase of the process.
2. Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)
Progress toward the objectives will be monitored by key performance indicators covering BCA's
performance at a pilot inland terminal and at two selected pilot border crossings, and overall efficiency
indicators for the BCA as a whole. The indicators include: (i) transport costs to/from the three main
trading partners and the transaction costs at these pilot sites; (ii) the number of physical or documentary
examinations and their effectiveness; (iii) processing times; (iv) the value of recorded trade; and (v)
reported occurrence of corruption. In addition, a set of regional indicators will be used to measure
cost/time reduction in regional transport on three major corridors to evaluate the overall impact of the
program. A detailed set of indicators has been defined to follow the national and regional progress
throughout the project life (Annex 1).
3 Referred to in this document collectively as "the program" and nationally as the "TTFSE project".
4Including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency awareness.



Page 4
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: R98-84; IFC/R98-59   Date of latest CAS discussion: April 28, 1998
The assistance strategy of the Bank Group for Bulgaria emphasizes the four priority areas outlined in the
Government's key strategy document "Bulgaria 2001: Program of the Government of the Republic of
Bulgaria - 1997-2001". (i) Promoting Structural Reform and Private Sector Development. The
highest priority is given to support for policy reforms to further liberalize trade, eliminate direct
government participation in the sector, and establish the prerequisites for efficiency in markets. (ii)
Strengthening and Rationalizing the Role of the State. The Bank will support a key criterion for EU
accession, the strengthening of public administration. (iii) Fighting Poverty and Developing Human
Capital. The Bank is helping strengthen the pension system and such social assistance systems as health
financing regime and primary health care services. (iv) Protecting and Enhancing the Environment.
The Bank is supporting the efforts of the Government to comply with EU environmental standards by
focusing on environmental liabilities of enterprises to be privatized and raising public awareness.
The proposed project is especially in line with the objectives (i) and (ii) above. It will support the
restructuring of the BCA to better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport costs, decreasing
the price of imported goods, and improving the competitiveness of Bulgarian products, thereby promoting
private sector growth and job creation in the country. The project will also support the BCA in
strengthening its tax collection capacity and enforcing several international conventions relating to the
environment, while reinforcing on-going efforts against corruption.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
Trade is highly significant to the Bulgarian economy, representing 86 percent of GDP in 1998 (Statistics
in Annex 4, page 5). The main trading partners are EU members (Italy, Germany and Greece) and Russia
(oil imports) (see Map 30431). Among the countries in Southeast Europe, only Greece and Turkey are
major export markets. Bulgaria's main exports include textiles, clothing and footwear, various metals, and
to a lesser extent food, machinery and equipment, and chemicals. Main imports include oil products,
chemicals, and machinery and equipment.
Bulgaria has strengthened trade links with its neighbors. It has entered into trade agreements with the
Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Slovenia and liberalized trade with Poland, Hungary, and Romania
through its accession to the Central European Free Trade Agreement in 1999. A similar free-trade
agreement with Turkey has been effective since January 1999, and another with the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia has been effective since January 1, 2000.
The BCA describes its mission in its strategy (Annex 11) as: (i) to protect society by applying legislated
restrictions and prohibitions on import, export and transit; (ii) to support the development of the economy
by maintaining a balance between the facilitation of trade and the effective application of laws and
regulations; (iii) to combat smuggling; (iv) to collect the customs duties and other state revenues (VAT,
excise and others) assigned to it by law; (v) to collect and analyse statistical data on international trade;
and (vi) to suggest government initiatives and measures within the framework of its competence. The
Inter-Ministerial Council on Border Point Issues, created early in 1999, provides a forum for coordination
and resolution of issues among government entities.
The BCA plays a critical role in serving both the State and the trading community. The BCA collected
about 42 percent of the total State budget revenues in 1998 (almost US$1 billion equivalent). The
Government has achieved partial success in improving the services of BCA and reducing trade and
transport impediments. Private sector observers recognize these efforts but underline that much remains to
be accomplished. The following obstacles to trade and transport have been identified by the various
stakeholders.



Page 5
a Modernizing Customs Code and Procedures
In preparation for eventual EU membership, the BCA has aligned its Code fuilly with the EU Customs
Code. The use of the Single Administrative Document (SAD)5 was introduced in the BCA in 1993, and
the new Customs Code came into force in January 1999. Additional work is going on to cover third-level
legislation. The nomenclature of goods in the Customs Tariff is based on the nomenclature of the
Harnonized System Convention for description and encoding of items and on the Combined
Nomenclature of the European Union.
Despite this modernization, the implementation of BCA procedures needs further attention to facilitate
trade and transport activities. Stakeholders have said that they have concerns6 about: (i) the overall
efficiency of the BCA and other border agencies; (ii) variations in interpreting, understanding and
implementing new legislation and procedures; (iii) transparency of procedures; (iv) uncertainty and lack
of predictability in clearance time based on point (ii); (v) lack of computerization of procedures and
telecommunication means; (vi) lack of coordination between groups carrying out inspections at border
points, and (vii) lack of effective interaction7 with the Government. Transport companies also mentioned
the frequent inspections of vehicles, due to the absence of a properly working uniform system of risk-
based targeting and selectivity.
The BCA intends to address these issues by re-engineering and automating its procedures, and providing
training to ensure uniform dissemination of these procedures. The EU plans to provide assistance on that
issue particularly through a twinning arrangement with German customs.
b. Upgrading Customs Facilities
Even if procedures are reformed and professional standards are strengthened, the design and facilities of
some of the main border crossing points will prevent BCA from fulfilling its trade facilitation, collection
and enforcement functions. Insufficient infrastructure at the border crossing points (BCPs) is one of the
reasons for delays. Six Bulgarian BCPs are in need of improvement. These BCPs process over 80 percent
of the commercial vehicles entering and leaving Bulgaria. Rousse and Kapitan Andreevo are the two most
important (in terms of.traffic load, strategic location, and most other measures), and all the points are on
important European corridors: Vidin-Kulata on Corridor 4, Varna, Bourgas and Gyueshevo on Corridor 8,
and Rousse and Kapitan Andreevo on Corridor 9 (see Map 30859).
The Government has already started to rehabilitate BCPs with its own funds and with assistance from
development partners. PHARE has financed the improvement of port and parking facilities at Rousse, has
supplied computers and training at the station at Kulata, and has rehabilitated approach roads to
Gyueshevo. PHARE also supports a cooperative program between Bulgaria and Romania on cross-border
projects. PHARE and EBRD are involved in several transport projects, including the rehabilitation of road
E79 from Sofia to Kulata, and the road from Sofia to Gyueshevo. A US grant administered by the UN
Development Programme is contributing to improvements at Gyueshevo and at Rousse. The Government,
however, does not have sufficient funds to complete these stations and so has requested that the Bank
fund completion of these works under new contracts.
With respect to equipment and information systems, the BCA started its modernization process in 1996.
The process included the evaluation and rejection of the UN's ASYCUDA++ system and a decision to
introduce a self-developed customs system (Automated Information System 3.0) compliant with new laws
and procedures. The BCA has prepared a "Strategy for the establishment, implementation and
development of the Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System" (BICIS). The strategy includes
the rollout of the automated information system under operation in the Vama region to all locations, with
the simultaneous development of additional modules to meet the requirements of a modern customs
administration. The BCA expects the process to require two and a half years.
A standardized format for customs declarations, aligned to the UN key layout for trade and transport documents.
6Rated 7.5 and above on a scale of 10 by a focus group.
7Although mechanisms exist, the time allocated for the review of governmental proposals is too limited and the
input from the trading community does not seem to be reflected in final decisions.



Page 6
The Ministry of Finance leads the development of telecommunications through its General Information
Technology Directorate and intends to provide proper telecommunications access at border crossings in
the future. Various alternatives are being tested, but leased lines are already available at the major border
crossings. In Bulgaria, telecommunications net topology is a triple star with TCP/IP8 protocol. The first
level of the star is the connection between the Data Center, located in Sofia, with all regional9 customs
centers. The second level is between each regional customs center and its customs offices. The third level
is between each customs office and its customs bureaus (inland or border points).
Further investments are required to complement the significant information system improvements made
to date. The safety and protection of such mission-critical equipment as servers in Sofia and in inland
offices require strengthening to prevent any system failure. Features to be improved under the project
include access control, fireproof walls, adequate illumination, and air-conditioning.
c. Combating Smuggling and Corruption
Despite the efforts of the BCA and the Government, users report that corruption and lack of transparency
generate significant additional costs'°. Freight rates set by companies operating in the region frequently
include a mark-up to cover unofficial payments. Users complain that procedures which give Customs
discretionary power in setting fines are conducive to irregularities. While users may exaggerate, the
widespread mention of corruption by users interviewed implies that this warrants priority. BCA's strategy
addresses this problem.
A major priority of the Bulgarian government is to fight corruption in both the public and private spheres.
Bulgaria has laws, regulations, and penalties against corruption, including a 1996 Law on Measures
against Money Laundering. Bulgaria became a signatory to the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention in
December 1997. An EU-funded twinning arrangement with the French Customs Administration will
contribute to the fight against smuggling and corruption.
Smuggling attempts are frequent and cover a wide range of products (excise goods, narcotics, forged bills,
counterfeited goods, and Uranium 235). The BCA cooperates with the Border Police to prevent
smuggling and can claim a fair success, being the third country in Europe for drug seizure. Intelligence
systems and databases are being built, and joint police/ customs mobile units will be introduced in 2000,
but could be insufficiently funded. Changes in the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedures Code, when
combined with the newly adopted Customs Code (some of its provisions are due to be introduced only in
2000) and legislation on public administration, seem to provide the BCA with appropriate enforcement
and prosecution powers. Adjustments are nonetheless needed in the relationship between the Border
Police and the BCA, and their respective powers.
d. Improving Private-Public Interactions
Limited and sometimes late prior consultation with the trade community prevents meaningful and
constructive interactions. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Bul-PRO1 committee provide
mechanisms to reach more consensual decisions. The lack of accountability of the BCA in facilitating
trade is a core reason for the disconnection betwqen users and the BCA. There are no mechanisms in
place to account for such impacts as delays caused in the departure of goods and cargo transfer, or down-
time suffered by vehicles, whether these delays are justified or not. The related costs are solely borne by
the cargo owners. Limited foreign language skills among operational officers cause time-consuming and
costly transactions requiring translations. The BCA increasingly provides training to its officers to
improve the quality of the interactions with the private sector or offers consultation mechanisms such as
8 Transfer Control Protocol/ Information Protocol.
9 Regional here refers to geographic subdivisions of Bulgaria.
'0 The stakeholder focus group, measuring the major obstacles encountered by traders impacting on costs, rated
corruption and the lack of transparency a 10 on a scale of 1 to 10.
" Professional body that seeks to improve international trade through the simplification and harmonization of
procedures and practices in administration, commerce and transport, in accordance with UN/CEFACT guidelines.



Page 7
drop-boxes for suggestions at border locations. Further efforts will be required to achieve the quality of
services available in and compatible with the European Union.
e. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
Bulgaria, like all other participants in the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative (SECI), recognizes
the importance of coordinated actions to address the above issues12 and achieve the objectives of the
Stability Pact. It is also recognized that, to some degree, each country can expect to gain more from
actions to be taken by its neighbors than those it should take itself. A regional view has thus emerged
according to which participant countries will simultaneously apply coordinated and compatible measures
to reduce trade/transport impediments and corruption/smuggling opportunities. The regional cohesion is
symbolized by the signing of a regional Memorandum of Understanding by the six countries, as well as
their willingness to benchmark country performance and to work on streamlined solutions at paired
border crossings13 (Map 30859). The support shown by the EU and United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe (UN-ECE) as well as such bilateral donors as the US, reflects the importance
attached to the development and stabilization of the region.
The participating countries also see movement toward a form of integration with Europe as a major
strategic goal. The proposed program hopes to demonstrate an effective approach to regional cooperation.
f Border Delays to Rail Transport
The proposed project addresses delays at road border crossings. Delays to trains at rail border crossings
are also a cause for concem, particularly as regards long-distance freight trains operating from Hungary
(and the EU heartland) through Romania and Bulgaria to Greece and Turkey. A working group bringing
together the ministries of transport and national railways of these countries, as well as their customs
administrations, has been meeting periodically under the aegis of SECI to agree on ways to reduce these
delays. As at the road border crossings, so also at the rail crossings the most promising solutions involve
simplifying procedures, shifting inspections and other formalities away from the borders to inland
locations, and using information technology to speed up and make more reliable the transfer of documents
about the rail wagons and their contents. World Bank loans to Romania and Bulgaria now under
implementation are financing the acquisition of modem management information systems for the national
railways. The proposed Project does not directly address rail transport, but rail traffic should benefit from
the Project's information systems for customs, as well as from the mechanisms for enhanced cooperation
among agencies and among governments.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
The project will address to different degrees the issues described above, building on previous efforts and
taking full account of on-going EU support to avoid any overlap. The project will combine resources from
the IBRD and the US. Given the interest of Bulgaria in the implementation of EU-compatible standards
and the need to ensure the overall compatibility of the program, close relationships with the EU will be
maintained. The project will seek improvements in: (i) procedures of border agencies; (ii) border
infrastructure and equipment; and (iii) trade/transport business environment and professional
performance.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown)
The project consists of the following five components:
12 The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport (ECMT), the International Road Transport Union (IRU),
the World Customs Organization (WCO), and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are also
providing support.
'3 Between Bulgaria and Romania, and between Bulgaria and FYR Macedonia.



Page 8
a Customs Administration Institutional Reform
Includes: (i) technical services to monitor BCA's performance; (ii) technical services to streamline
operations at two border posts and one inland terminal on a pilot basis; and (iii) training for inter-agency
awareness and cooperation. This technical support will complement on-going EU activities to help
implement the BCA strategic plan (Annex 11). Cooperating partners in the Inter-Ministerial Council on
Border Point Issues will be involved in the definition of the new procedures and combat against fraud.
b. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international transport
participants through the Chamber of Commerce; (ii) improvement of cooperation between public and
private parties using a virtual forum'4; (iii) provision of equipment to support information availability.
$
c. Improvement of Bulgaria Integrated Customs Information System (BICIS)
Includes a regional experience-sharing program on integrated systems for border agencies. This
component will stimulate regional and interagency cooperation.
d. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Includes civil works and improvement of the utilities at six border posts: exit and entry processing lanes;
new buildings, booths and canopies; utilities; heating, sanitary and electrical systems; and truck terminal
areas at Gyueshevo, Vidin, Rousse, Kapitan Andreevo, Kulata and Bourgas. It also comprises design and
supervision of the civil works.
e. Program and Project Implementation
Includes the services required to support the regional and national implementation of the project. The
regional support will consist of secretariat services to the RSC. The national support will comprise the
services of an auditor and procurement advisors, the establishment of a financial management system,
incremental operating costs and training to the Project Manager and her Project Implementation Team.
Component                     Category         Cost incl.    % of       Bank        % of
Contingencies   Total    Financing    Bank
(US$m)                 (US$m)   Financing
A. Institutional Reform on    Consulting Services/   0.9       7.5         0.0         0.0
Customs Procedures        Training
B. Trade Facilitation     Consulting Services/       0.4       3.5         0.0         0.0
Development               Training/Equipment
C. Customs Information    Consulting Services/       0.1       0.5         0.1         0.7
System Improvement        Training/Equipment
/Civil Works
D. Improvement of Border    Civil Works/            10.5      83.4         6.9        93.0
Crossing Facilities       Consulting Services/
Training
E. Program and Project    Consulting Services        0.6       5.0         0.5         6.3
Implementation
Total                                               12.5     100.0         7.4       100.0
Note: Data may not sum to totals because of rounding
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
Bulgaria has indicated its commitment to market reforms, including deregulation and privatization. The
project will supplement on-going policy and institutional reforms seeking the following objectives:
14 Creation of an internet website that will enable exchange of views, user surveys and consultation.



Page 9
a. Strengthening of the BCA
The capacity building component of the customs reform strategy addresses the following aspects:
preparation of third-level legislation (special instructions, power of intervention) to complete the
approximation of EU legislation with reference to the acquis communautaire 15, and
implementation and enforcement of the new legislation;
* review of the schedule of penalties to strengthen their deterrent effect on offenders;
* adoption of simplified and standardized customs and border inspection procedures (compliance
measurement and selective inspection based on risk assessment);
* development of analytical expertise to develop and maintain targeting and selectivity tools;
* development of analytical approach to border crossing station design;
* human resource management to develop customs/border inspection expertise and enhance system
integrity;
* training for customs personnel to ensure the uniform application of new legislation, to improve
the fulfillment of BCA's mission and to enhance integrity;
* creation of a partnership among border inspection agencies and the trade/industry community to
coordinate operations, procedures, and the exchange of information; and
adoption of audits and account management processing to facilitate trade data exchanges.
b. Strengthening of the Integrated Customs Information System
Improvements in the systems in use are designed to have the following impacts:
* elimination of multiple data entry;
* creation of databases accessible in real time at all customs locations to support selectivity and
targeting procedures;
* exchange of information with other govemment agencies for processing and enforcement
purposes;
* monitoring of customs performance, traffic pattems and capacity use;
* information exchange with other governments in the region; and
reduction in corruption opportunities by decreasing and monitoring human intervention.
c. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
The project will lead to greater regional cohesion. The implementation of joint pilot projects with
Romania and FYR Macedonia at selected border posts will strengthen regional cooperation at both local
and national levels.
3. Benefits and Target Population
a Benefits
The customs reform and decreases in trade and transport costs will lead to transparent customs
procedures, a reliable business environment, and economic growth as a result of lower prices for imports
and more competitive prices/services for exports. The benefits will spill over to government agencies and
private companies in other trade partner countries. This would translate into:
* cheaper import goods/inputs for Bulgarian consumers and industries;
* a better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly for the
trade activities of SMEs;
15 Treaties and the accumulated body of agreements of substance, procedures and protocols effective in the
European Union that must be accepted by countries wishing to join.



Page 10
*  a more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign companies;
*  improved facilitation for transit traffic;
*  reduction of corruption and smuggling opportunities;
*  improved revenue collection by the BCA, enabling reduction in tariffs;
*  uninterrupted services of information systems and better integrity of data; and
*  closer approximation with EU standards and procedures.
b. Target Population
The beneficiaries of the reform will be transport operators, importers, exporters, freight forwarders, other
trade industries, foreign investors, and ultimately, consumers and producers inside and outside the region.
In addition, cross-border trade in the vicinity of the borders will be made easier for local companies and
individuals. Travelers and tourism will also benefit.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
a Implementation Period
The project is to be implemented over a three-year period (FY2001-FY2003). It would be completed by
June 30, 2003 and closed by December 31, 2003. The Regional Program in its entirety would be
implemented in about 8 - 10 years.
b. Executing Agencies
The Republic of Bulgaria will be the borrower. The beneficiaries will be the Ministry of Finance, the
BCA, the Border Police and the Chamber of Commerce. The implementation arrangements will include
the following elements: (i) a project manager and a project implementation team; (ii) a project
coordinator; (iii) a facilitation coordinator; and (iv) a regional steering committee (RSC). With the
exception of the RSC, these elements are extensions of existing institutions and use people already
involved in similar functions.
The Project Manager comes from the Capital Investments Department of the Ministry of Finance. This
institution is responsible for all steps related to the physical improvements of border crossing facilities,
including procurement. The Project Manager will maintain a Project Implementation Team (PIT)
covering procurement, loan management and reporting functions acceptable to the Bank, submit an
evaluation of the workload for this team and plan resources accordingly. The PIT will coordinate the
project management for the various beneficiaries, prepare terms of reference, hire consultants, and
contract for services, training, goods, and civil works as necessary for the implementation of the project.
The Ministry of Finance has appointed the director of the Capital Investment Department as Project
Coordinator. The Coordinator will call and chair coordination meetings of the various border control
agencies and manage their input. The Coordinator will be nominated as part of the expert group of the .
The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) will manage the trade facilitation component
and provide the Facilitation Coordinator, who will interact with the Project Manager for the
implementation of the component and the coordination of the regional website. The BCCI has ample
experience in this field as demonstrated by its existing website and its role in the national facilitation
organization Bul-PRO.
The BCA will be the main beneficiary of the institutional reform and the improvement of the BICIS. The
BCA and the Border Police will both benefit from the improvement in border crossing facilities. The
BCA and the Border Police will ensure that appropriate technical expertise is engaged to support the
Project Manager. Cooperating partners (Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Trade and Tourism, Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, and so forth) will be involved in the definition of the new procedures and of the BICIS
system.



Page 11
Given the scope (six countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the related policy and
institutional reforms anticipated, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting periodically at the
regional level, will oversee the overall implementation of the program. The participating countries signed
a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) setting up the RSC and held the inaugural meeting in Skopje in
February 2000. The RSC is made up of high-level officials of participating countries - the Deputy
Finance Minister in the case of Bulgaria - and donor representatives as observers. It will provide
guidance for the necessary sector policy and reform decisions. Meetings will rotate among the
participating countries, with the Project Manager of the host country providing support services to the
Committee.
The UN-ECE is providing a secretary to the RSC to support the implementation of the program. The
secretary 16 will: (i) prepare the agenda, supporting documentation and minutes for the RSC meetings; (ii)
consolidate on a semi-annual basis the implementation reports of the countries involved in the program;
(iii) consolidate the annual review report of the PITs; (iv) assist in the trade facilitation efforts; and (v)
establish a link to the SECI-PRO committees.
In order to provide a model of pragmatic solving of border crossing problems, the project will include
implementation of operational restructuring at two pilot border crossings located on the main
international corridors (Rousse on the border with Romania and Gyueshevo on the border with FYR
Macedonia) and one pilot inland terminal (Plovdiv). Romania and FYR Macedonia will similarly be
treating as pilot stations the facilities on the other side of the border (Giurgiu in Romania and Deve Bair
in FYR Macedonia). A more detailed set of indicators for management purposes will be developed at
these pilot sites. These indicators will be used by each country to examine and allow the evaluation of
comparative performance.
This framework will provide an assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success of the
solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The results will be updated each quarter
by the PIT in addition to the project indicators in Annex 1 and offered to the RSC for review and
comparison. The lessons learned from these case studies will be extended to other specific border
crossings in the participating countries. Sharing the case studies, along with other project reports, with the
customs services and transport associations in countries not associated with the TTFSE will enable the
projects to stand together as a quasi pilot of customs reform for application to countries outside the
Program.
c. Procurement and Disbursement
Civil works and services financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. The Project Manager will appoint a qualified procurement specialist satisfactory to the Bank.
The procurement specialist will be supported with outside Bank procurement advisors as required 17
The project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with national
regulations or the procurement regulations of the co-financing institution. The project elements, their
estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A of Annex 6. Consultant selection
arrangements are summarized in Table Al of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and
estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table A2 of Annex 6. Thresholds for
procurement methods and prior review, capacity of the implementing agency in procurement and
technical assistance requirements, and the allocation of loan proceeds are found in Annex 6 Table B, B 1,
and C, respectively.
d. Accounting, Financial Reporting, andAuditing Arrangements
A financial management system (FMS) including accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting,
auditing, and proper internal control systems will be established prior to loan effectiveness. The FMS has
16 The secretary, financed by a US grant, will be sharing his time between his TTFSE responsibilities and the
management of the SECI-PRO committees
17 The procurement advisors will be individuals with satisfactory country and World Bank procurement experience,
to be funded by the US.



Page 12
met the minimum Bank financial management requirements (4-B LACI Certification) prior to board
presentation. The Bank made a preliminary review of the systems in place and made recommendation for
the installation of an appropriate FMS. The Bank has reviewed the FMS and prepared a report identifying
weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system and enable the development of
appropriate project management reports in view of the transition to PMR-based disbursements. The Bank
has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps necessary for: (i) board presentation; (ii) loan
effectiveness and (iii) further strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation.
The development of the FMS will be monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first
supervision mission and throughout project implementation.
The PIT has been staffed with one accountant. The company installing the FMS will assist the PIT in
maintaining project accounts adequate to provide information regarding project resources and
expenditures. The PIT will have accounts audited every fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, in accordance with International Standards of Auditing issued by the International Federation of
Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PIT will also maintain all documentation
related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices.
A management letter giving an opinion on internal audit controls should be submitted to the Bank six
months after effectiveness of the loan.
e. Reporting
The PIT will prepare quarterly progress reports and submit them to the Bank and the RSC secretary,
which will consolidate the reports on a semi-annual basis and then forward them to the Bank. These
reports will include: the progress of each project component, key performance indicators, procurement
issues (actions dealt with, actions planned, and an update of the procurement implementation). The report
will measure performance against the implementation schedule and compliance with loan covenants.
f Supervision and Evaluation Arrangements
Supervision will be managed at the national level by Bank headquarters staff with the active involvement
of the Country Office and at the regional level by a program team leader from Bank Headquarters. The
Bank will devote some US$50,000 per year for supervision of project progress through FY2003. This
includes the Bank's contribution to the time of a senior customs specialist, jointly funded by a French
Trust Fund.
Each October or November during the implementation of the project, the Bank together with the PIT and
the other development partners (EU, US) will conduct a review of project execution. The review will
assess the status of regional and national implementation and cooperation, progress made at the level of
pilot sites compared to targets, development of the BICIS, implementation of donor programs, and
productivity of the BCA. The review will offer refined targets and objectives for the following year and a
set of recommendations. The schedule of procurement for the coming year will be agreed at the time of
the review, considering the progress to date in the institutional reform.
g. Monitoring
Overall, project monitoring will be based on performance targets and indicators and the Project
Implementation Plan as agreed during loan negotiations. Monitoring will be carried out by the BCA,
assisted by consultants as necessary.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
a. Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country
The possibility of preparing independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and
rejected since the achievement of overall project objectives will be greatly aided by simultaneous



Page 13
standardization and harmonization of cross-border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among
the countries and with the EU.
b. Regional Program of Investment Projects
A regional program of coordinated border crossing facilitation projects carried out more or less
simultaneously is more advantageous and was selected since it will:
*  generate substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade
partner countries of Bulgaria, which, if also implementing the program, will in turn bring benefit
to Bulgarian industries and consumers;
*  allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs and
border control procedures and operations;
*  be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of European integration, and the
impact of the EU enlargement process;
*  enable the Bank to coordinate with other donors that also implement regional programs; and
*  minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.
c. Regional Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
A regional or "horizontal" APL, including alternative b. above as a first phase, which would have enabled
sequential entry of countries in the Program and the delegation to the Regional Vice Presidency of
approval of operations according to a well defined operational blue print, was considered. This horizontal
APL, however, was judged to be undesirable because it would involve "stretching" the APL concept. The
determination of the future value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program
would have been a delicate and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program. For these
reasons, Alternative b was preferred.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Development Agencies
(completed, on-going and planned)
Sector issue                          Project               Latest Supervision (Project
Status Report) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                              Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Transportation            Macedonia, FYR: Transit              HS              HS
Facilitation Project
Public Sector Management   Albania: Tax Administration          S              S
Modernization
Trade Facilitation        Estonia Transport                    N/A            N/A
Other development agencies
EU                        EU-PHARE programs
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory), N/A not yet available
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
Bulgaria has made considerable effort to improve its border crossings with external aid. Despite the
resulting progress, further efforts are still required. The border crossing problem, by its nature, requires
coordinated and mutually reinforcing actions in many areas. The reform effort is integrated to ensure
complementarity between assistance from the EU, the US and the World Bank.



Page 14
The Transit Facilitation Project in FYR of Macedonia (ICR# 19408) highlighted the need to: (i) tailor the
complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability
of implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv)
maintain flexibility to ease implementation.
EU-PHARE's experience shows that to lessen transaction costs at border crossings, border crossing
investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate information on waiting
times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-agency
needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable communication infrastructure and
equipment; (vii) communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of customs
procedures and removal of state controls on international trade.
These lessons are reflected in the design of the present project. The project design was tailored tc respond
to stakeholders' concerns following active consultations. The project will support only the first phase of
customs reform and focus on the implementation of integrated solutions at a national level and local level
(pilot border crossings). The implementation team will be the existing Capital Investments Department of
the Ministry of Finance. The pilots and interactions with the Inter-Ministerial Council on Border Point
Issues will stimulate cooperation across borders and among agencies to optimize procedures,
communication links and monitoring of performance. Customs users will receive training and advisory
services to enhance their professional skills. They will be encouraged to voice their concerns and
priorities through the regional website and PRO committees and will receive accurate and timely
information on existing procedures.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
Bulgaria's commitment to the reforms under the project comes from its interest in legitimate trade
expansion and liberalization and participation in such regional activities as those promoted by SECI.
BCA's preparation and adoption of the comprehensive strategic plan summarized in Annex 1 1 is a strong
and clear sign of commitment to the project and to the broader objective of EU accession, which acts as a
powerful stimulus for reforms. The Minister of Finance of Bulgaria sent a letter to the SECI Coordinator
in Vienna in March 1998, affirming the Government's strong commitment to implementing the project.
The Government, in this letter, expressed its readiness to: (i) undertake reforms in border services; (ii)
cooperate with SECI and its supporting countries; and (iii) actively interact with the private sector
through the operations of a trade facilitation or "PRO" committee. The creation of the Inter-Ministerial
Council on Border Point Issues and the Government's active participation on the Bul-PRO committee are
actions supporting this statement.
Commitment to the reform at an operational level (border posts, regional directorates) is less assured and
will be a special point of focus through the pilots.
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
At the outset, the commitment of the participating governments to the TTFSE objectives was weak. They
were unwilling to fund border crossing improvements entirely from their own budgets; long-term
financing was more attractive to them. The EU and other donors have limited capacity to fund
infrastructure. As to technical assistance, the governments were (and remain) reluctant to borrow for
foreign technical assistance because of its high cost relative to local salaries. In addition to the extensive
support which the EU is providing to Bulgaria with a view to its accession (Annex 12), the best solution
therefore was to combine IBRD loan financing for infrastructure with US grants for technical assistance.
The fact that the Bank was willing to finance infrastructure only on condition that Customs reform and
institutional strengthening was carried out in parallel, has reinforced the attention given to the latter.
Furthermore, the Bank through its broader lending and country assistance strategies is well placed to help
promote cooperation and coordination of policies and public spending.



Page 15
E: Summary Project Analysis: (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[XI Cost-Benefit Analysis:
NPV=US$7.O million; ERR= 31%
The project would have a good return/ low-risk profile with a potential for high return. The net present
value is estimated at US$7.0 million on an investment of US$10.1 million. Two benefits have been
quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border crossings and inland
terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
Waiting at border crossings is the concrete manifestation of inefficiency in trade related services. In the
European Union, customs administrations are required to keep 90 percent of vehicles waiting no more
than 20 minutes, or about 40 minutes to cross both sides of a border point. The difference between present
waiting times at Bulgarian borders and a target of one hour to cross both sides of the border has been used
as the basis to test the economic justification of investing in border crossing improvements. Reducing
current crossing time by 25 minutes would suffice to achieve an ERR of 12 percent. The savings on
transport costs are estimated in excess of US$5 million per year after 2005 for vehicles entering Bulgaria.
The reduction in costs to trade and the increased reliability of delivery times are expected to lead, in the
medium run, to a significant increase in trade volumes, which would make use of existing excess
production capacity. Extrapolating from analysis of some specific cases, the trade expansion resulting
from the project is assumed to generate a benefit equivalent to 20% of transport benefits. The switching
values and sensitivity analysis indicate a robust project.
2. Financial and Fiscal
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive. There is evidence to suggest that the real value
of trade is much higher than shown by official records, both as to quantities and unit values. The
improved performance of border crossings should provide the basis for a significant expansion of the
official volume of trade and generate additional customs duties and excise taxes.
The Bank will finance all foreign costs and, in the case of civil works, a part of local costs. The
Government will fund all other local costs, as well as all taxes and customs duties.
Given its high priority, the provision of local funds (apart from taxes) is not expected to create a problem:
they represent on average 6 percent of BCA's annual budget. The Ministry of Finance will service the
debt.
3. Technical
The proposed works consist of new and reconstructed buildings, additional traffic lanes and parking,
control booths and canopies, fencing, utilities and truck terminals. The site and building works in the
project do not require complex design or construction methods, but they will require scrutiny to make
sure that they are dimensioned to match expected flows of traffic per hour, including provision of separate
"green" and "red" channels, the separation of trucks from passenger traffic, and vehicle parking space
consistent with the speeded up processing. Design capacities will allow for peak travel times but will
guard against over-dimensioning. There are several cases where buildings are to be reconstructed. Such
cases will be reviewed to ensure that they improve the quality of service to users, and are dimensioned in
accordance with EU standards.
The construction industry in Bulgaria is capable, with some contractors able to compete on an
international level. Compliance with the schedule requirements, however, will require strict oversight. It
will be necessary to employ the full-time site supervision services of independent consulting firms to
ensure the continued acceptable quality of the constructed product.



Page 16
4. Institutional
a. Executing Agencies: Project Manager and her Project Implementation Team (PIT)
Implementation will be overseen by the Project Manager and her Project Implementation Team (PIT).
The Project Coordinator will assist the PIT in obtaining the input of the other agencies involved. The
Project Manager will maintain a team consisting of a procurement specialist and an accountant. The
established PIT will receive technical advice from the Bank's senior customs specialist and externally
funded support as needed in relation to procurement and financial management. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on the organization, staffing, and resources necessary for the PIT to operate
satisfactorily. Its full implementation will be a condition of effectiveness.
The Trade Facilitation Development component will be managed by the BCCI in collaboration with
government agencies and the private sector. BCCI has designated a coordinator for this component.
b. Project Management: Regional Steering Committee
The Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting at least once every three months, will oversee the
coordination and implementation of the Program and the proposed project. The RSC will be constituted
of high-level officials (the project coordinators) of the participating countries empowered to implement
necessary sector policy and reform decisions.
5. Social
The project will have an indirect impact on the poor. The reduction in border crossing delays will reduce
trade and transport costs, and in turn, the cost of imported goods, leading to benefits to consumers and
lower cost of inputs required for local manufacturing, with corresponding creation of new jobs. This
import effect, however, will be partly offset by losses incurred by local producers when new imports
replace local products.
The project aims at improving access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics through the
training extended to the business community. The TTFSE website will allow access to all information
related to border crossings in the six countries involved in the Program, improving to a large extent
transparency, thereby reducing opportunities for illegal payments. The electronic forum under the website
will empower the business community in the region and outside by enabling it to voice its opinion on the
quality of the border services received and propose corresponding recommendations to smooth trade and
transport activities.
6. Environmental Assessment           Environmental Category [ A  [X] B []C
Since the border crossing improvements involve enhancement of existing facilities or construction of new
facilities within developed areas, the Environmental Category is B. The scope of work includes some
expansion but no major fills are envisioned nor disturbance of forested or wetland areas. Removal and
disposal of waste and demolition materials should conform to international standards, and be a contractual
obligation.
All designs for station improvements will ensure compatibility with local environmental regulations and
conditions. The project Environmental Management Plan (Annex 10) will minimize negative
environmental impact and strengthen coordination and collaboration with the Ministry of Environment
and Waters. The Environmental Management Plan has been included as an annex to the PIP and was
agreed with the government at loan negotiations. Training will be provided to sensitize operational
personnel in the BCA to environmental issues. In any event, the overall impact of the project should be
positive, since it should lessen waiting times and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles at the
border crossings.
The project will also enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions and
agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be the regulations included in such
agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by



Page 17
Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of
Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP), of September
1970; and (iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and
their Disposal, of May 1992.
7. Participatory Approach
The project's design reflects views expressed by principal stakeholders including such customs users as
truckers and freight forwarders. Bank staff have conducted extensive interviews and stakeholder analysis
to identify trade impediments and their remedial actions. In addition, activities planned under the Trade
Facilitation Development component will foster opportunities for closer, more frequent and transparent
contact and feedback between Customs and the trading community on a continuing basis.
In support of the reform of the work culture for the BCA, the project will make available a consultant to
assist focus groups of key stakeholders. This activity will be coordinated with other aid agencies and
existing stakeholder groups (BCCI and Bul-PRO). The Government will also initiate a public information
program designed to reach stakeholders and the public. User surveys are envisioned as a basis for
performance indicators. Principal stakeholders, for example truckers, will be also involved to monitor
border delays. The project will make intense use of Bul-PRO and counts on its feedback to monitor
improvements.
The project has been prepared in collaboration (COL), consultation (CON), information sharing (IS) with
the following:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups
*  Exporters, importers, producers, and consumers (CON)
*  Road transport operators and their association (COL)
-  Freight forwarders/shippers (COL)
e  Bulgarian Union for Foreign Trade and Customs Service (COL)
-  Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as well as the Bulgarian Intemational
Business Association (COL)
*  Bulgaria State Railways Enterprise (COL)
*  Foreign investors (IS)
*  Ministry of Finance and General Customs Directorate (COL)
*  Inter-Ministerial Council on Border Point Issues, Ministry of Trade and Tourism, Ministry of
Transport, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of the Environment and Waters, and
National Border Police (COL)
b. Other Key Stakeholders
*  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agrarian Reform, especially sanitary and veterinary
inspection agencies (CON)
*  The European Commission, the US Government and other development partners (COL)
*  IRU and FIATA"8 (IS)
*  Private companies and populations in the vicinity of the border crossings (IS)
A specialist in participatory methodology will assist in the design and implementation of a project launch
workshop. The specialist will also provide a preliminary action plan, which will be adopted as a guide for
user participation under the Trade Facilitation Development component. The Action Plan will use output
18 FIATA = Federation of International Forwarding Agents.



Page 18
provided by the participants that attend the Project Launch Workshop.
As follow-up to the Project Launch Workshop, the Action Plan will include, for example, such activities
as a series of user focus groups as well as user surveys. The focus groups will provide an open index of
user satisfaction. Surveys of such key stakeholders as truckers and freight forwarders will provide the
basis for more quantifiable information as part of the verification plan for the performance indicators,
assuring a central role of such stakeholders in project monitoring. The Project Manager with the
assistance of the BCCI will be responsible for implementing the action plan. The results will be reported
as part of the annual reviews.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project will support values that are critical to fulfilling Bulgaria's long-term objective of achieving
sustainable growth. Once the reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort will be assured by
transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing agencies including those
of other countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous
upgrading of the customs service, procedures, management, and equipment based on a reengineered
budget will enable the BCA to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and continued
compatibility with the EU.
At the level of Bulgaria, the risks of project failure are moderate. At the level of the region, effective
cooperation could greatly enhance the developmental impact, but is subject to much greater uncertainty.



Page 19
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                     Risk           Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
The flows of traffic linked to Kosovo will  M    While these flows may be only temporary, the
disappearl9.                                     reconstruction effort will last at least five
more years.
Cooperation among border agencies faces    S     The high-level coordinator will have the
inertia and strong resistance.                   power to request meetings of the Inter-
Ministerial Council on Border Point Issues.
Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will not  S  The EU program of customs compliance and
reduce illegitimate trade.                       enforcement will significantly reduce this risk
and the Bank's customs specialist will advise
on counter-measures as required.
Political commitment is not adequate to   M      The prospect of entering the EU is a strong
resist pressure groups (public or private)       incentive to proceed with the reform and the
and to ensure the success of the institutional   peer pressure will strengthen the effort.
program.
Coordination by RSC is not effective and  M      Donors are an integral part of the Program.
not supported by donors.                         The RSC will include key decision-makers of
each program country and observers from
donor countries.
Regional cooperation issues prevent the   H      The MOU, the RSC, the regional website, the
achievement of regional goals.                   benchmarking and the willingness to access
the EU will create a favorable environment
for proper cooperation.
Annex 1, cell 'firom Components to
Outputs "
The willingness to introduce significant   S     The launch of procurement for physical
changes at pilot sites across agencies is low.   infrastructure components in Years 2 and 3
will be conditional on prior progress at pilot
sites.
The BICIS system fails to be implemented   S     The BICIS support to selectivity will trigger
according to schedule.                           the launch of procurement for physical
infrastructure components in Years 2 and 3.
The targeting and selectivity techniques are  M  The launch of procurement for physical
not effectively implemented at an               infrastructure components in Years 2 and 3
operational level.                               will be conditional on effective
implementation of targeting and selectivity
techniques.
Overall Risk Rating                       M      This is a modest risk, good-return project
with potentially high return.
Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
19 The Kosovo crisis has affected the Bulgarian economy and increased the volume of through traffic going there



Page 20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Risk                         Type of    Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
Risk    Rating
Delays in institutional changes  G       M     Coordination with the EU
Resistance by some BCA          G         S    The BCA has launched considerable efforts to
officers (loss of revenue)                      address corruption. The transparency of
requirements using the website will reduce
opportunities.
Rejection by BCA of             G         S    Efforts to strengthen integrity are already
corruption as a major issue                     launched and additional training provided by
the EU will enhance the capacity of BCA to
address corruption.
Type of Risk: S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a. Establishment of a Project Implementation Team with appropriate staffing, organization, systems
(including a financial management system), funds, facilities, and other resources in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
b. Selection of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other (according to covenant types used in the Loan Agreement)
a. By November 15 of each year, the Borrower and the Bank will review progress achieved under
the project including at pilot sites based on agreed performance monitoring indicators, and will
confirm the implementation program (including procurement packaging) and performance targets
for the following year.
b. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the total number of
customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by the BCA at its pilot inland terminal
does not exceed on a monthly basis: (i) 12 percent by September 30, 2000; (ii) 10 percent by
September 30, 2001; and (iii) 8 percent by September 30, 2002.
c. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number of trucks
completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland terminal will exceed on a
monthly basis: (i) 10 percent September 30, 2001; and (ii) 20 percent by September 30, 2002.
d. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number of trucks
opened at its pilot border crossings will not exceed on a monthly basis: (i) 25 percent by
September 30, 2000; (ii) 20 percent by September 30, 2001; and (iii) 10 percent by September 30,
2002.
e. By March 31, 2001, the Project Coordinator will establish a mechanism across all border agencies
to provide the Facilitation Coordinator with up-to-date information on waiting times and opening
hours at border crossings, Customs Code, bylaws, and procedures of border agencies. This
information shall be binding and made available to customs users in order to contest a decision at
a border post.



Page 21
f. The BCA will provide to the Bank quarterly progress reports on the establishment and
implementation of BICIS and will ensure that BICIS will fully support selectivity at inland
terminals and targeting at border crossings by November 30, 2001.
g. The Borrower will actively participate in the Regional Steering Committee and support it.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
L I The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ I The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Program Team Leader/Task Manager: Graham Smith / Gerald Ollivier, ECSIN
Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Al,    ,
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5






BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Proiect Desi%n Summary
Narrative Summary                       Key Performance Indicators                 Monitoing and              Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Promoting structural reform and   Total trade increasing from US$9.3 billion in 1998 to US$    Ministry of Finance    Wealth is distributed appropriately to
private sector development        12.4 billion in 2003                                                       alleviate poverty.
Strengthening and rationalizing the    Quality of customs services gradually improving (user  Ministry of Finance    Tax proceeds will be used transparently
role of the state                 survey)                                                                    and appropriately.
Fighting poverty and developing   Availability of information and training for the professional  *  BCCI     Adequate social security net is
human capital.                    involved in trade and transport activities                                introduced.
Protecting and enhancing the      One customs staff assigned to environmental impact issues   Ministry of Environ.
environment                       and better enforcement of environmental conventions by  and Waters
the BCA
Project Development Objective:                                                                                        (Objective to Goal)
1. Reduce non-tariff costs to trade  Transport costs to/from the four main trading partners  *  Annual sampling  Business environment such as
and transport                     decreasing annually by 2 percent on average from 2001  by Chambers of      competitive market, post-privatization
Commerce and       corporate governance and judicial and
evolution of       regulatory systems will be improved.
CIF/FOB ratio      Reform in the banking/insurance sector
Study performed   will reinforce trade activities.
at project         Reduction in tariff levels and non-tariff
completion         costs will enhance trade incentives.
2. Reduce smuggling and corruption   *  Value of recorded imports increased from US4.7  *  Customs agency   Non-customs tax collection will also be
at border crossings                 billion in 1999 to US$6.7 billion in 2003            annual report       made more efficient.
*  Occurrence of border corruption (per user surveys)  *  Annual survey of
reduced by 200320                                    truckers crossing
the border
_                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
20 See definition of indicators, page 6 of this Annex.
°-1



Outputs:                                                                                                           (Outputs to Objective)
1.1. Strengthen the institutional and   *  Import clearance time at pilot terminal down from 1.5    * Logs of Customs    The transport sector will offer a
operational capacity of BCA and   hour in 1999 to 40 min. on average in 2003           * IRU in cooperation   competitive environment.
other border agencies            *  Inland physical examination down from 30% in 1999 to    with the National    Cooperation between border agencies
5% in 2003                                           Associations of    will be supported by the Coordinator and
*  Percentage of trucks cleared inland in less than 15  Road Transport    the Interministerial Council.
minutes up from 0% in 1999 to 40% in 2003            Operators
*  Average border entry time down from 1 hour in 1999 to   * Ministry of Finance  Border Agencies will be given the
under 20 minutes by 2003                            * Chamberof          political mandate to innovate at pilot
Commerce          sites.
1.2. Support customs users      * Internet framework and forums set up in 2001 for    Bulgaria Chamber of  The banking / insurance industry will be
private/public sector information exchange. Internet site  Commerce and   able to provide services to the trade
visits exceed 300/month in 2001. Current BCP situation  Industry          sector at a reasonable price.
available on the internet in 2001.
1.3. Improve main border crossings   *  All works completed by June 2003              Periodic surveys of    The border crossings selected will
infrastructure                                                                        users on the duration   remain critical in the aftermath of the
and the convenience   Kosovo crisis thanks to their location on
of border crossing  main corridors.
(incl. Monitoring of
congestion)
2.1. Strengthen on-site inspections    *  Irregularities/number of examinations up from 3 % in  * Ministry of Finance  Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will
to prevent smuggling              1999 to 15 % in 2003                                 * Customs           result in significant regularization of
*  Incidence of corruption reduced over project life                      trade.
Political commitment is adequate to
resist pressure groups (public or private)
and ensure the success of the
institutional program.
Project Components/Sub-          Inputs: (budgetfor each component) in US$ million21                              (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2for
project description)
A. Institutional Reform on                               0.9                                               Border agencies will actively participate
customs procedures                                                                                         in the implementation of pilots
Monitoring, review and preparation                       0.7
of new customs procedures
21 The costs described below are base costs, excluding contingencies, including taxes.
CD1 



Implementation & training on new                         0.2                          Customs brokers
Procedures                                                                            surveys
B. Trade Facilitation development                        0.4
Website                                                  0.1                                               Other on-going regional initiatives for
trade (Association of Balkan Chambers,
etc.) will continue operating.
Training & Seminars                                      0.3
C. BICIS improvement                                     0.1
Personnel Training                                       0.1                                               The modules for targeting and selectivity
will be operational nationwide by
.___________________._________                                                                       December   2001.
D. Improvement of Border                                 8.9
Crossing Facilities
Gyueshevo border crossing                                2.0
improvement
Vidin border crossing improvement                        2.7
Rousse border crossing                                   0.5
improvement
Kapitan Andreevo border crossing                         1.0
improvement
Kulata border crossing                                   1.1
improvement
Bourgas Border Crossing                                  1.1
Design/Supervision of Works                              0.5
E. Program and Project                                   0.6
Implementation
Front-end fee                                            0.1
RSC Secretariat and Procurement                          0.2
Advisors, Auditors
PIT                                                      0.2
CD
m >E
0 CD



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Performance Targets
Indicators                            Dec 1999      Sep 2000        Sep 2001        Sep 2002        Sep 2003
Act      T               Targ.   Act   Targ.   Act    Targ.   Act
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal (Plovdiv)
Import Clearance Time (min)              80        80              60              50               40
Physical Examination (%)                 30        25              20              10                5
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min.(%)   0         0               10              20               40
Irregularities/number of examinations    3         5                8              10               15
(%)
Pilot Border Crossings (Rousse)
Truck Examination (%6)                   15        12              10               8                5
Irregularities/ Number of Examinations   2         5               10              20               40
(Are)        r E      e6                                           25              23_2
Average Border Exit Time (min)          6022       28              25              23               20
|Average Border Entry Time (min)         60         28              25              23               20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption
(%)
Reported Occurrence of Corruption
(count)
Pilot Border Crossings (Gyueshevo)
Truck Examination (%)                    15        12              10               8                5
Irregularities/ Number of Examinations   2         5               10              20               40
('% )                              1            1       1       11_I
Average Border Exit Time (min)           30        28              25              23               20
Average Border Entry Time (min)          30        28              25              23               20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption
I(% )                               I_ _ I_ _                   II_ _II
Reported Occurrence of Corruption
(count)
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue collected/customs staff ('000   480       530             580             640              700
DEM)                                  _           _               _       _     |  |              _  _ _ j _
Total BCA Cost/Revenue collected %       1.3      <1.5  |       | <1.5            <1.5             <1.5
Salaries/Revenue collected(%)           0.63      <0.7            <0.7            <0.7             <0.7
22 Interviews with the private sector indicate that three to four hours are required to cross this border (both sides), while BCA had a preliminary
survey indicating 28 minutes. The electronic measurement to be installed as part of the project will improve the understanding of current
conditions.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)        0.63     <0.7           <0.7            <0.7            <0.7
Trade Volume/ Number of staff (US$    800       880            970            1060            1160
000/staff)
Annual Number of Declarations/        267       300            350            600             1000
Custom staff (000/staff)                                                                        _
Transport Cost for the main export    100       100             98             96              94
commodity traded with the three main
trading partners (US$- base 100 in
1999)
Value of Recorded Imports (US$       4,900     5,300          5,750           6,200          6,650
million)
Value of Recorded Exports (US$       3,900     4,450          4,900           5,400          5,880
million)                                                                  _



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
Performance Indicators - Definitions
Indicators                     Description                               Remarks
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminals
Import clearance   Time between entrance of truck into the  Information on truck identification and time
time             terminal and its exit from the terminal after   of arrival and departure will be recorded with
release of goods.                       the use of computer terminals or time clocks
installed at the terminal entry and exit points
Physical         Number of times that goods are examined or  Information will be derived from the
examination      the cargo compartment is searched compared  computer system that records all declarations
to the total number of import, export, and  and from the requirement to prepare an
suspense declarations.                  automated report of the results of each
physical examination.
Trucks cleared in   Number of times that a truck completes  Information will be developed using the
less than 15     import clearance (time between entry into the  same system that provides the data on import
minutes          terminal and departure after release of goods) clearance times.
in less than fifteen minutes compared to the
total number of import clearances.
Irregularities/  Number of irregularities discovered during    Information will be obtained from the
Number of        physical examinations compared to the total  automated reporting of the results of all
examinations     number of physical examinations carried out. physical examinations.
Pilot Border Crossings
Truck            Number of trucks actually opened (i.e., seals  Information will be compiled through the use
examinations     broken) compared to the total number of  of computerized traffic logs and the
trucks processed.                       requirement to prepare an automated report
of the results of each truck examination.
Irregularities/  Number of irregularities discovered during    Information will be extracted from the
Number of         examinations compared to the total number   automated reports of truck examinations.
examinations     of trucks examined.
Average border    For trucks exiting the country, it is the time   Information on truck identification and times
exit time         between joining the queue and crossing the    will be recorded continuously with the use of
border.                                 computer terminals or time clocks installed
at appropriate locations.
Average border    For trucks entering the country, it is the time   Same as Exit Time.
entry time       between crossing the border and departing
the station.
Surveyed         Number of cases when a driver makes or is   Information to calculate this indicator will be
occurrence of    asked to make an unauthorized payment    derived from surveys of truck drivers using
corruption       compared to the total number of          the crossing point. This survey will be
trucks/locations surveyed.              conducted on a continuous basis through
cooperating transport companies.



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
Reported         Number of cases when a driver makes or is   Information to calculate this indicator will be
Occurrence of    asked to make an unauthorized payment    derived from records of received report- ^f
Corruption       compared to the total number of survey   corruption maintained by the Bulgarian
responses                               Customs Administration.
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue          Total revenues collected/Total number of    Information to be obtained from records
collected/       customs employees                        maintained by the Customs Service.
Customs staff
Total BCA Cost/   Total budget of the Department (including    Information to be obtained from records
Revenue collected  salaries, overtime, bonuses, and       maintained by the Customs Service.
benefits)/Total revenue collected irrespective
of its destination.
Revenue/Salaries   Total agency salaries, overtime, bonuses, and  Information to be obtained from records
collected        benefits/Total revenue collected irrespective   maintained by the Customs Service.
of its destination
Trade Volume/    Trade Volume/number of customs           Information to be obtained from records
Customs staff    employees                                maintained by the Customs Service.
Annual number of  Total number of declarations (import, export, Information to be obtained from records
declarations/    suspense regimes, but excluding transit),  maintained by the Customs Service.
Customs staff    irrespective of the number of items/Total
staff employed by BCA.
Regional Performance Indicators
2003
Itinerary                          2000         2001        2002        2003       as % of
2000
I. Istanbul-Bucharest Avg Time (hours)   80          78           75          71          89
Average Cost        $1,015      $1,000       $975        $940         93
II. Istanbul-Tirana    Avg Time (hours)  192         189         182         172          90
Average Cost        $2,800      $2,760      $2,690      $2,600        93
III. Sarajevo-     Avg Time (hours)      40          40           39          38          95
Ljubljana     Average Cost         $750        $740        $730        $720         96
Base-year values are estimates by Bank staff for a single 20-ton truck-load, based on a survey of freight forwarders in the
Southeast Europe region.






Annex 2
Page I of 5
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
(NBF) = Non Bank Financed
Note: All costs in the tables are without contingencies
A.    Customs Administration Institutional Reform -(US)
Cost with Contingencies US$ 0.9 million
Component           Sub        InVestment                       Dt
.omponent       (US$)
1. Monitoring  1. 1. Monitor and  60, 000  Monitor and refine the set of productivity indicators to
and review of refine              (NBF)  measure the performance of customs services; these
BCA           productivity                productivity indicators should enable comparison between
procedures   indicators                   Customs Services in the region and worldwide.
enabling
international
comparisons
1.2. Designated    660,000  Establish programs to implement new border processing
border stations    (NBF)  procedures and practices on a test basis, with a view to
and inland                 expanding the use of successful ideas nationwide. Those
customs stations           areas to be addressed include procedures, staffing,
will serve as test         automation and cooperation among agencies, as well as
sites for ideas to         border station design.
improve
operations.
2. Implemen-  2.1. Inter-agency   150,000  Enhance cooperation among the border agencies.
tation and    awareness and       (NBF)  Includes:
training on    training                   (i) sensitization of customs officers to the importance of
new                                       environmental issues;
procedures                               (ii) familiarization of customs officers with veterinary,
phyto-sanitary and immigration processing;
(iii) seminars for judges, police and other officials
responsible for prosecution of customs violations; and
(iv) assistance for the implementation of international
conventions related to environment.
Total (US$m)                        0.9
without contingencies            (NVBF)



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
B.    Trade Facilitation Development (US)
Cost with Contingencies US$ 0.4 million
1. Strength-    1. 1. Establish and  100, 000  Design a regional website and mechanisms to updat it.
ening of       maintain a         (NBF)  The website will enable transparency on policies, legal
Private-Public  regional website          and regulatory framework and cooperation at a local,
Partnership    to support the              national and regional level among private and public
program and act            parties. It will offer a comprehensive information resource
as a focal point           on border crossings and inland terminals (pictures), on
for trade                  procedures of border agencies in the region, and support
facilitation              the implementation of the TTFSE Program. All training
materials developed under the Trade Facilitation
Development will be made available on the site. This
component includes the equipment necessary to operate
the site.
2. Improve-    2.1. Expert       300,000   Develop and implement a series of distance learning
ment of the    services and       (NBF)  programs in trade, transport, and logistics focussed on
performance of training                   facilitating trade. The programs will consist of: (i) a study
trade                                     guide; (ii) study sessions; (iii) reference readings; (iv)
facilitation                               frequently asked questions; (v) exams; and (vi)
agents                                    certificationi by a lead professional association. Seminars
will be offered for the most critical study sessions.
Materials will be available either electronically on the
website or in the form of paper copies printed out at the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Total (US$ m)                        0.4
without contingencies             (1VBF)
C.    BICIS Improvement - (Bank)
Cost with Contingencies US$0.1 million
I. Exchange   Regional             50,000  This sub-component will enable the organization of
program       experience                   seminars to share regional experience and find technical
sharing program             solutions in implementing the reformn.
Total (US$ m)                         0.1
without contingencies



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
D.    Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Cost with Contingencies and Taxes US$10.5 million
component    Sub <*mponent Invet-tEent                        Detail
Base csts-:
1. Gyueshevo  1.1. Paving and   540,000  Construction of an expanded and improved station. The
fencing                    new station will have five entry and five exit lanes built
by others. The reconstructed station work under the
1.2. Adminis-     540,000  TTFSE project will include demolition of the existing
tration building           administration building and construction of a new
1.3. Canopies              administration building; canopies; asphalt paving and
1..400,000  minor grading; control booths; miscellaneous buildings;
1.4. Control      120,000  and area fencing.
booths
1.5. Miscella-
neous              50,000
Sub-total        1,650,000
2. Vidin      2.1. Addition of    600,000  Addition of one access lane from the ferry landing with
one lane                   necessary grading; widening of the lane processing area;
creation of a truck terminal including an administration
2.2. Canopies     240,000  building and parking area; canopy extensions; a water
2.3. Booths        48,000  supply system and drainage; and control booths and
fencing.
2.4. Fencing       75,000
2.5. Adminis-     500,000
tration building
2.6. Heavy        150,000
vehicle
inspection shed
2.7. Parking      395,000
areas
2.8. Water supply   245,000
and drainage -
Sub-total       2,253,000
3. Rousse                       400,000  Construction of an administration and communication
building for the border police, composed of a basement
and two stories with a floor area of 1000 sqm (total).
Construction of the building is reinforced concrete with
brick bearing walls and aluminum curtain wall.
_    Sub-total     400,000
24 No contingencies and no taxes.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
4. Kapitan    4.1. Canopy       367,000  Renovation, modernization, and rehabilitation of a major
Andreevo      repairs                    border station, consisting of: repair of the canopies,
including painting, replacements and repairs of canopy
4.2. Building     162,000  boards, lighting and utilities; repair of five buildings
repairs                    including waterproofing, exterior work, painting,
interiors and utilities; a new canopy with control booths;
4.3. Canopy and   113,000  overhaul and reconstruction of the precast concrete
booths                     warehouse; and construction of a building for waiting
4.4. Warehouse             passengers.
reconstruction     90,000
4.5. Passenger
building           25,000
4.6. Heating and
electrical repairs    100,000
Sub-total         857,000
5. Kulata     5.1. Adm. Bldg.    500,000  Construction of a new truck inspection building and a
new administration building; construction of a new
5.2. Inspect.Bldg.   150,000  parking area and truck terminal; and water supply and
5.3. Truck                 drainage lines.
terminal parking    120,000
area
5.4. Utilities    180,000
Sub-total         950,000
6. Bourgas    6.1. New          900,000  Construction of a vehicle and container inspection
container                  building, administration building, parking area, including
inspection                 fencing and utilities.
terminal
Sub-total         900,000
7. Technical   7.1. Gyueshevo   100,000  The project includes contracts for the review of the
assistance                               design and supervision of construction at the six border
7.2. Vidin        135,000  locations.
7.3. Rousse        24,000
7.4. Kapitan       52,000
Andreevo
7.5. Kulata        57,000
7.6. Bourgas       60,000
Sub-total         428,000
Total (US$ m)                       7.4
without contingencies and taxes



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
E.     Program and Project Implementation
Cost with Contingencies US$0.6 million
Component    Sub component Investment:                          Deta:
(U.-,
Base cost
PIT           Operating costs    140,000  Operating costs for the three years of implementation.
PIT support       100,000  Financial Management System, procurement support,
training to the PIT.
Front-end Fee                    100,000
RSC           Consultant         105,000  Secretary and procurement advisors financed by the US.
Secretariat    services           (NBF)
Procurement
Advisors
Auditors      Consultant         100,000
services
Total (US$ m)                        0.5
without contingencies






Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
%     % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                               (US$ Million)    Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Institutional Reform of Customs Procedures
Monitoring, Review and Preparation of Procedures     0.1      0.6      0.7       85        7
Implementation & Training on New Procedures          0.0      0.1      0.2       85         1
Subtotal Institutional Reform of Customs Procedures   0.1       0.7      0.9       85        8
B. Trade Facilitation Development                        -        -        -                  -
Website                                              0.0      0.1      0.1       85         1
Training & Seminars                                  0.0      0.3      0.3       85        3
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                0.1      0.3      0.4       85        4
C. Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System      -         -        -
Regional Exchange                                    0.0      0.1      0.1       83       1.0
Subtotal Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System  0.0   0.1      0.1       83        1
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities             -        -        -
Gyueshevo Border Crossing                            1.0      1.0      2.0       50        18
Vidin Border Crossing                                1.4      1.4      2.7       50       25
Rousse Border Crossing                               0.2      0.2      0.5       50        4
Kapitan Andreevo Border Crossing                     0.5      0.5      1.0       50        10
Kulata Border Crossing                               0.6      0.6      1.1       50        11
Bourgas Border Crossing                              0.5      0.5      1.1       50        10
Design/Supervision of Works                          0.1      0.4      0.5       71        5
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities     4.4      4.6      8.9       51       82
E. Program and Project Implementation                    -        -        -                  -
RSC Secretary, Procurement and Auditors              0.1      0.2      0.2       77        2
PIT                                                  0.2      0.1      0.2       23        2
Front-end Fee                                          -      0.1      0.1      100         I
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation            0.2      0.3      0.6       58        5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   4.8      6.0     10.8       56      100
Physical Contingencies                               0.4      0.5      1.0       53         9
Price Contingencies                                  0.5      0.2      0.8       28        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    5.8      6.8     12.5       54      116
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Components by Financiers                                                                                                            Local
IBRD             GOB              US               Total        For.   (lFri. Duties &
Amuant    %      AManut          AMnxt   e         Amount   e       Ech.  Taxes)  Taxes
A. Institutional Refonr of Customs Procedures
Monitoring Review and Preparation of Procedures                           0.0              0.8    100       0.8       6     0.7    0.1
Implementation & Training on New Procedures                               0.0              0.2    100       0.2       1     0.1     0.0
SubtotallnstitutionalReformofCustomssProcedures                             0.0              0.9    100       0.9       8     0.8    0.1
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise and Advice                                                                       0.1    100       0.1       1     0.1     0.0
Training & Seminars                                                       0.0              0.3    100       0.3       3     0.3    0.1
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                                     0.0              0.4    100       0.4       4     0.4    0.1
C. Bulgarian Integrated Customs Infonration System
Regional Exchange                                        0.1      83      0.0      17                       0.1       1     0.1              0.0
Subtotal Bulgarian Integmated Customs Information          0.1      83      0.0      17      0.0              0.1       1     0.1     0.0      0.0
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Faclities
Gyueshevo Border Crossing                                 1.5     65      0.8      35                       2.3      19     1.1    0.8       0.4
Vidin Border Crossing                                     2.0     65       1.1     35                       3.1      25      1.5    1.1      0.5
Rousse Border Crossing                                   0.4      65      0.2      35                       0.6       5     0.3     0.2      0.1
Kapitan Andreevo Border Crossing                         0.8      65      0.4      35                       1.2       9     0.6     0.4      0.2
Kiulata Border Crossing                                  0.9      65      0.5      35                       1.4      11     0.7    0.5       0.2
Bourgas Border Crossing                                  0.9      65      0.5      35                       1.3      11     0.6    0.5       0.2
Design/Supervision of Works                              0.5   83.3       0.1    16.7        -              0.6    4.5      0.4     0.1      0.1
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities         6.9   66.0       3.6   34.0         -             10.5   83.4      5.2     3.5      1.7
E. Program and Project Implementation                            -        -       -       -                     -       -       -       -        -
RSC Secretary, Procurement and Auditors                  0.1   44.4       0.0     8.9      0.1      47      0.2     2.0     0.2     0.0      0.0
PIT                                                      0.3   85.0       0.0    15.0        -              0.3     2.2     0.1     0.2        -
Front-end Fee                                            0.1   100.0        -       -        -              0.1     0.8    0.1        -        -
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation                0.5   74.4       0.0    7.3       0.1      18      0.6     5.0     0.4     0.3      0.0
Total Disbursement                                          7.4    59.2      3.6   28.8      1.5      12      12.5  100.0      6.8    4.0       1.8
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding



Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis of Total Project Investment
Table 4.1. Summary Economic Benefit from the Project
COSTS           BENEFITS
FY                                               Net Benefits
(in US$ million)  (in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
2001                     1.8              0.1               -1.7
2002                     5.0               1.0              -4.0
2003                     3.3              3.0               -0.3
2004                                      3.9                3.9
2005                                      3.1               3.1
2006                                      1.9                1.9
2007                                      2.0                2.0
2008                                      2.0                2.0
2009                                      2.1               2.1
2010                                      2.2                2.2
2011                                      2.2                2.2
2012                                      2.3                2.3
2013                                      2.4                2.4
2014                                      2.4                2.4
2015                                      2.5                2.5
2016                                      2.5                2.5
2017                                      2.5                2.5
Total                    10.1|            38.2              28.1
Internal Rate of Return                                   31%
Discount Rate                    |       12%      |
NPV @ 12%                      7.9             14.9               7.0
The Principles of the Economic Evaluation
The border crossings proposed for improvements under this project were selected on the basis of: (i) high
traffic; (ii) geographical location (on international routes); (iii) long waiting time at present; and (iv) need
for upgrading. These border crossings were designed to ensure efficient and transparent border
operations, while fitting the more stringent norms of the European Union as regards to the office space
occupancy. The analysis was built in close coordination with local parties (customs services, Ministry of
Finance, Border Police) reviewing alternative remedial measures.
The economic cost-benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project over the
implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. Detailed calculations on
costs and benefits are shown in Table 4.1. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1999 prices.
All investment and recurrent costs are net of import duties and of either taxes or subsidies.



Anatx-4-Table 4.2
Economic Cost-Benefit Analy7is                      Bulgoa
(Milons of US$ in 1999 prices)
FY                                                    2001     2002      2003     2004      2005      2006      2007     2008      2009      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015
Coste
Investrnernt Costs
lth the Projact
Trade Facilitation Development              0.15      0.13     0.16
Customs Adm. Institutional Reform           0.30      0.40     0.20
BICIS improvement                           0.05
Border Facilities improvement               1.29      4.49     2.93
Total 119h the Prejocr                      1.79      5.02     3.29
Totel Incremenital Cost:                                1.79      5.02     3.29       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.01      0.0        .0       0.0      D0.       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Economic Benefit
1. Tranpert .Cost Reduction (with project)
Pilot Crossinrs                              0.0      0.25     0.61      0.90      0.92      0.95     0.98      1.01      1.04      1.07      1.10     1.14      1.17      1.21      1.24
Other CrossingsPosts                        0.00      0.12     0.72      1.74      2.56      2.64     2.72      2.80      2.88      2.97      3.06     3.15      3.24      3.34      3.44
Pilot Inhta  Termsiral                      0.08      0.47      1.13     1.66      1.71      1.76      1.82     1.87     193       1.98      2.04     2.11      2.17      2.23      2.30
Total                                       0.12      0.84     2.46      4.30       5.2      5.35     5.51      5.68      5.85      6.02      6.21     6.39      6.58      6.78      6.98
2. Inpact of Reduced Traport Cost: on Trade
Trade Benefits fiomTransport Cost Reduction  0.02     0.17     0.49      0.86      1.04      1.07      1.10     1.14      1.17      1.20      1.24     1.28      1.32      1.36      1.40
3. Transport Cost Reduction( (withoutproject)                                       .1.29     -3.12     -4.50     -4.63    -4.77     -4.91     -5.06     -5.21     -5.37     5.53      .70      -5.87
TotalsBeefiltfiomPuject                                 0.14      101      2.96      3.87      3.12      1.93      1.98     2.04      2.11      2.17      2.23     2.30      2.37      2.44      251
Not Benefibt frm Project                               -1.65     -4.01     -0.33     3.87      3.12      1.93      1.98     2.04      2.11      2.17      2.23     2.30      2.37      2.44      2.51
#J 4>



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
Costs
The project cost considered for the economic evaluation amounts to US$1 0.1 million excluding taxes and
including physical and price contingencies. This excludes components for which EC financing has
already been committed. It includes other components under: (1) Customs Administration Institutional
Reform; (ii) Trade Facilitation Development measures; (iii) Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information
System; and (iv) Border Crossing Facility Improvements. It does not take into account the cost of the
Advisory Services and PIT.
Benefits - With Project Scenario
Two benefits have been identified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at
border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project.
Trade and Transport Costs Reduction. The savings on transport costs at Bulgarian border crossings
and the inland terminal under the project would progressively reach about US$5.2 million at the end of
2005. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals are symptomatic of a number of issues associated
with deficiencies in trade related services: procedural complexity, cumbersome documentation
requirements, slow customs clearance steps, scarce and unreliable information technology and
telecommunications, absence of standard service times and inadequate infrastructure.
Assumptions. The progressive reduction of border crossing time25 to one hour for incoming traffic has
been used as the basis in the economic evaluation of the project. The two pilot border crossings
(Gyueshevo and Rousse) and pilot inland terminal would progressively26 meet this objective by 2003.
Other border posts scheduled for improvements under the project, but not selected as pilots, would
experience similar waiting time reduction with a lag of one year. The average waiting time for trucks in
the "do nothing" alternative is the mid estimate as reported by customs users and officials. The average
value of time for trucks was obtained through interviews (US$250/day). Natural traffic growth was
estimlated at 3 percent under the category "trade and transport cost reduction".
In order to realize the economic benefit from the waiting time reduction, both the physical investments
and the customs reform are jointly required because the customs reform alone can not completely reduce
the waiting time. For example, the implementation of new procedures requires additional lanes to allow
for traffic segregation, appropriate space covered by canopies for secondary inspection27, proper
communication capacity with limited interruption (LAN, WAN, phone, fax), access to power sources to
enable computers to function or lighting to be available during evening shifts. The project will
specifically address these border posts where infrastructure or equipment bottlenecks exist.
Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The impact on trade under the project comes from: (i) reduction
in waiting time at border crossing points; and (ii) increased reliability in the delivery of goods. In a
competitive market, these two elements will be reflected in the price of traded goods, and stimulate trade.
The increased reliability of international delivery times will facilitate the integration of local companies
into international production chains.
In the medium run (from 2003) these two elements should enable a significant increase in trade volumes.
28
Such trade gains are obtained by combining trade creation and trade-substitution effects . Imports would
25 From entering the border area in one country to exiting the border area in the next country.
26 5% in FY200 1, 30% in FY2002, 70% in FY2003 and 100% in FY2004 of the targeted time reduction (down to
one hour).
27 Selectivity means not only that not all trucks are inspected, but that those inspected are subject to a far more
detailed inspection than today.
28 The trade creation effect is the increased demand in the importing country for a commodity from an exporting
country, resulting from the price decrease associated with the elimination or reduction of distortions. Trade substitution
accounts for the tendency of importers to substitute goods from one source to another in response to a change in the
import price of supplies from one source.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
be the most affected initially, since the border inefficiencies bear mostly on imports. However the
regional nature of the project would simultaneously impact exports. Increased import volumes would
benefit local consumers (inclusive of local companies relying on foreign inputs for their production) by
increasing their consumer surplus and would create a loss for some local manufacturers, whose products
become replaced by new imports. Increased export volume would benefit local producers by opening new
market opportunities and would reduce local consumer surplus by reducing the quantity available on the
local market at the initial price.
The broad economic impact of cheaper international transport is complex to analyze even in countries
with valid statistical data and requires general equilibrium models taking into account the
monetary/foreign exchange impacts of new trade patterns. Given the current level and quality of data
available on the six Balkan countries, such a detailed evaluation would not be realistic. The outcome of
various studies on this phenomenon shows these additional benefits ranging between 20 and 30 percent
over the transport savings generated. For the purpose of this evaluation, 20% percent was considered as
the most appropriate. Exhibit 4.1 provides an at-a-glance summary of trade for Bulgaria.
Benefits - Without Project Scenario
If the project were not taking place, reform efforts supported by the EU would continue to be
implemented. The differential between the with or without project scenarios in terms of costs includes
only the project costs as described above. The EU support would enable the Customs services to partly
achieve the objectives of this project on a delayed schedule. The benefits associated with "the without
project" scenario were subtracted from the benefits in the "with project scenario" to obtain the project
benefits. It was estimated that, without the project, 25 percent of annual with project benefits would be
achieved in 2003, 50 percent in 2004 and 70 percent in 2005 and onwards. The absence of needed
infrastructure without Bank's financing would impose a limit to the efficiency that could be achieved,
explaining that only 70 percent of the savings could be reached without the project.
Sensitivity Analysis on EIRR
Tables 4.3. presents the various assumptions tested and their influence on the economic internal
rate of return of the project. The internal rate-of-return for the project is robust as shown by the
low switching values. In all cases tested, the projected rate-of-return remains well above the
opportunity cost of capital.
Table 4.3. Sensitivity Analysis
Table 4.4. Switching Values (forEIRR  @     EIRR
Daily Truck Value (l$)            40%            23%
Trade Related S radets            33%            30%
TraffTic Volume                   40%            23%
Investment cost (-43%                            24%
Investment cost ()and Traffic Volume   4/18
Table 4.4. Switching Values (for IRR   12 percent)
Daily Truck Value (US$/day) i|150
Trade related benefits coeff.       <0
Traffic volumte/existing traffic  55%
Minimum Time Savings
(in minutes)                25



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Exhibit 4.1. Bulgaria Goods Trade Outlook (1998)
Figures are in US$ million unless otherwise noted
1934   1935   1996  1997  1398
Bulgaria- Trade Balance                              Tratde lidicaters:
Historic (1993-1998)                               Exports (FOB) inUS$ bilion      3.9   5.3   49    49    4.3
5oum e: B±gtiar NiHrte15uBi                                              Imports (FOE) in US$ bilion    -4.0  -5.2  -4.7  -4.6  -5.2
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    199P                BaLwweoxGoods                 0.0   0.1   0.2    04   -Os
GrowthExpofts (in%)            6%   36%   -9%    1%  -13%
4$ see -                    _       _                               Growth Imports (in%0)         -14%   32%  -10%   -3%   13%
U *t_                _                .              Total TradeefGoods             79   106    9.6    95    96
2~:: _i  *    _    _       _                          _             Grswtk Trds vhone             -5%   34%   -9%   -I %A   0%e
£ see -          r^           q             r        -      _~_Real GDPinUS$builhn       11A   11S   10.7  101   123
P(1$0)                                                  -              Exports as % ofODP            34%   45%O  46%   49%   35%
p$O5) _~ 3             ~    -!         -       -                      Imports as% ofGDP           35%   44%       44%   46%   42%
*  *    *                         Trade balance as % ofGDP        0%    1%    2%    4%   -7%
(5 $59)_                                                             Trade ar,oefGDP               69%   90%   90O   95%   77%
flmpen-GoodsF05  Ulspan-GoodsFOB   &bkxuue-Ooods
Trade Partners (1998)                                                     Main Exchanges (1998)
Export                              Ilnport                               MaxPsrts (US$ udiliesn)
Italy                            551 Russia                       1037    Bese Metals                                                844
Germany                          449 Gesmany                       723    Textiles                                                   742
Greece                           377 Italy                         396    Animal and Vegetable Products                              690
Turkey                           339 Greece                        297    Machinery and TransportEquipment                           518
BalkanCountries                  237 US                            206    Chemicals                                                  493
Russia                           235 Ukraine                       197    Mineral and Fuels                                         342
Others                          2111 Others                       2300    Other                                                      664
Total                          4299 Total                        5156
EU                              50%  E                           4596
Main Exports 1998 in US$ million (>US$ 190 million):                      nmparts (US$ udlios)
Clothing and footwear (537), Food, beverage and tobacco (443), Iron and   IlineralProducts and Fuels                                1314
steel (406); Other metals (307); Machinery and Equipment (205),           Machinery andcTransportEquipment                          1030
Chemicals (201), Textiles (1 96)                                          Textiles                                                  645
Chemicals                                                 540
Main Imports 1998 in US$ million (>USS190 million)                        Animal and Vegetable Products                             382
Energy (1193), Textiles (504), Machinery and equipment (41 5),            Base Metals                                               321
Chemicals (293), Ores (198), Food, beverage and tobacco (196)             Other                                                     763
Sources: World Bank, IMF, Bulgarian National Bank, EIU.
The goods trade balance showed a tendency to surplus until 1997 (4% of GODP in 1997) prior to turning to a deficit in 1998 estimated to about US$700
million. The firsttwo quarters ofl 999 show a significantworsening ofthis deficitwith a drop in exports and an increase In Imports. Foreign trade Is highly
signfficantto Bulgara. Exports of goods stood at US$4.3 billion in 1998 (nearly 35% ofODP), while imports ofgoods reached more than US$ 5.1 billion
(about 42% of GDP) or in total more than 77% of GDP.
The trade of goods of Bulgaria is mainly oriented towards the EU, which represents the main market (about 50% of exports and about 45% ofimports).
Within the EU three countries have the most important shares (Italy, Germany and Oreece). Other significanttrade partners include Russia, Turkey and
the Balkan countries. The structure of imports has gradually modified since 1994. In 1998, imports were constituted by capital goods (22%), raw
materials (41 %) energy (23%) and consumer goods (14%) while the structure of exports was: capital goods (16%), intermediate goods (53%) and
consumer goods (31 %). The first semester 1999 indicates a weakening of traditional heavy industry exports while clothing and footwear exports are
strengthening. Imports have increased notably for capital goods. The surge In oil prices is likelyto further Increase the trade deficit






Annex 5
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Financial Summary
Project Components Cost and Financing Plan By Year
Total including Contingencies
(US$ Million)                                          Totals lIcluding Confingencies
FY2001 FY2002 FY2003  Total
A. Institutional Refonn of Customs Procedures
Monitoring. Review and Preparation of Procedures       0.4     0.2      0.2     0.8
Implementation& Training onNew Procedures              0.0     0.0      0.1     0.2
Subtotal Lstitutional Reform of Customs Procedures       0.4     0.3      0.2     0.9
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise and Advice                                   0.1     0.0      0.0     0.1
Training & Seminars                                    0.1     0.1      0.1     0.3
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                  0.1     0.1     0.2      0.4
C. Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System
Regional Exchange                                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.1
S:ubtotalBulgarianlntegrated Customs Infbmation System   0.0     0.0      0.0     0.1
D. lmnrwement ofBorder Crossing Facilities
Gyueshevo Border Crossing                                -      1.6     0.7     2.3
Vidin Border Crossing                                  0.9      2.2             3.1
Rousse Border Crossing                                   -      0.4     0.2     0.6
Kapitan Andreevo Border Crossing                       0.5     0.7        -     1.2
KulataBorderCrossing                                     -     0.3      1.1     1.4
Bourgas Border Crossing                                  -       -      1.3     1.3
Design/Supervision of Works                            0.2     0.2      0.2     0.6
Subtotal Improvement ofBorder Crossing Facilities        1.6     5.4      3.5    10.5
E. Program and Project Implementation
RSC Secretasy, Procurement and Auditors                0.1     0.1      0.1     0.2
PIT                                                    0.1     0.1      0.1     0.3
Front-end Fee                                          0.1       -        -     0.1
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation              0.3     0.2      0.2     0.6
TotalPROJECT COSTS                                       2.4     6.0      4.1    12.5
Project Financing                                    FY2001 FY2002 FY2003   Total
IBRD                                                   1.2     3.7      2.5     7.4
Government                                             0.6      1.9     1.1     3.6
US                                                     0.6     0.5      0.4     1.5
Total Project Financing                                  2.4     6.0      4.1    12.5
N ote: Figure s may not add up to total due to rounding






Annex 6
Page 1 of 8
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all contracts wholly or partly financed by IBRD.
General. Works wholly or partially financed by IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly or partly financed by
IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in January 1999. Standard documents
published by the World Bank will be used by the PIT for the preparation of bidding documents and
request for consultant's proposals.
Procurement of Works. Civil works contracts will be financed under International Competitive Bidding
procedures (ICB).
Prior and Post Review by the LBRD for Works Contracts. All IBRD financed works contracts under
ICB will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Procurement of Consulting Services. Recruitment of consulting firns for the design and supervision of
works will be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines. Exception to using the QCBS method will apply to financial audits (Least Cost
Selection) for an aggregate amount not to exceed US$120,000. The operating costs of the PlT for a total
amount of US$140,000 will be Bank-financed on a declining basis. Consultant firms or individual
selected based on Qualifications (CQ) or as individual consultants (Section V) respectively, will be hired
to provide support to the PIT when needed and for the exchange programn to improve the ICIS.
Prior and Post Review by the IBRD for Consultants' Contracts. All consultant contracts expected to
cost above the equivalent of $100,000 per contract with firms and $50,000 per contract with individuals
will be subject to prior review by the IBRD. Other contracts competitively awarded and not subject to
prior review will be subject to post review. All contracts not awarded through competition and all terns
of reference (TOR) will be subject to prior review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions. The procurement plan
was agreed during the appraisal mission. The MOF and IBRD have finalized the procurement plan during
negotiations (Table B2). This timetable will be used as a basis for monitoring of procurement processing.
In particular, the following advance procurement actions have been identified and are hereby proposed to
the BCA and the MOF as critical milestones so that main contracts can be signed soon after Loan
effectiveness: (i) submit draft Specific Procurement Notice for the construction works by May 15, 2000;
(ii) submit draft expression of interest for services for design and supervision by May 31, 2000; and (iii)
submit terms of reference, short list, letter of intention, draft model contract for consulting services by
May 31, 2000. All notices to be published in the UN Development Business should be submitted to the
IBRD at least 20 days prior to publication. Retroactive financing would be provided for an amount of up
to EUR 105,000 and would cover the provision of a Financial Management System, procurement
specialist support, incremental operating costs and consultant services for design and supervision.
Disbursement
Disbursement. Disbursements against the categories described in the Table 6.C will be made upon
receipt by IBRD of fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US$100,000
for consulting firns, US$50,000 for individual consultants, training and expenditures for incremental
costs, which will be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation
for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower and made available to IBRD during supervision. The



Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the IBRD Loan
account will be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account (see
below).
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks or in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank to cover the share of expenditures by the Bank. The aggregate Authorized Allocation for this
special account will be EUR 750,000, representing about four months of average expenditures made
through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the Special
Account will be limited to an aggregate of EtJR 375,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements
under the Loan have reached the level of EUR 1.5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to
the aggregate Authorized Allocation of EUR 750,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted monthly or when
one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment will follow standard Bank procedures as described in the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter
6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account, reconciled by the Borrower, will accompany all
replenishment requests.
Project Accounting and Financial Management. A financial management system (FMS) including
accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing, and proper intemal control systems will be
established prior to loan effectiveness. The FMS has met the minimum Bank financial management
requirements (4-B LACI Certification) prior to board presentation. The Bank has reviewed the established
FMS and prepared a certification according to the model presented in the Loan Administration Change
Initiative Implementation Handbook. The certification reflects the status of the FMS and the project-
related isstues and is accompanied by proposed remedial actions to enhance the system and enable the
development of appropriate project management reports in view of the transition to PMR-based
disbursements. The Bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps necessary for: (i)
board presentation; (ii) loan effectiveness and (iii) further strengthening of procedures and staff
development during implementation. The development of the FMS will be monitored by the Bank before
effectiveness, during the first supervision mission and throughout project implementation. The FMS will
be compatible with OP/BP 10.02 and with the Project Fiiancial Management Manual, published by the
Bank.
The PIT has been staffed with one accountant, suitable to the Bank. The company installing the FMS will
assist the PIT in maintaining project accounts adequate to provide information regarding project resources
and expenditures. The PIT will have accounts audited every fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Intemational Standards of Auditing issued by the Intemational
Federation of Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits will be submitted to the Bank
no later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PIT will also maintain all
documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound
accounting practices. A management letter giving an opinion on intemal audit controls should be
submitted to the Bank six months after effectiveness of the loan.
Accounting and Auditing. An independent auditor acceptable to IBRD will conduct an annual audit of
the project accounts in accordance with International Auditing Standards. Termns of reference for the
annual audits of the project accounts will be agreed upon at negotiations. Certified copies of these audits
will be submitted to IBRD within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Certified copies
of the auditors' report will be retained by PIT for subsequent review by IBRD missions.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
International
Competitive
Bidding      Other    N.B.F.  Total
A. Civil Works                                 9.9                  -    9.9
(6.4)         -            (6.4)
B. Equipment & Goods                            -           -    0.0    0.0
C. Consultant Services & Engineering            -         0.9    1.3    2.2
(0.7)      -   (0.7)
D. Training                                      -          -    0.2    0.2
E. Miscellaneous                                -         0.3       -    0.3
(0.2)      -   (0.2)
Total                                          9.9         1.1    1.5   12.5
(6.4)      (1.0)      -   (7.4)
Auditors (US$ 0.12 million), design and supervision consultants (US$0.63 million) and PIT
consultant support and FMS (US$0.15 million) are categorized under the "Consultant Services and
Engineering".
The category E corresponds to the front-end fee (US$0.08 million) and the incremental operating
costs (US$0.14 million).
N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                            Selection Method                             Total Cost
Services                                                                          (including
Expenditure                                                                      contingencies)
Category
Category__    QCBS    QBS         SFB      LCS       CQ       Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms          0.56                        0.1229    0.0830              1.5          2.3
(0.47)                       (0.1)    (0.07)                          (0.6)
B. Individuals                                                   0.1331                  0.1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ (0.11)  (0.1)
Total   0.56                         0.12     0.08      0.13      1.5          2.4
(0.47)                       (0.1)    (0.07)   (0.1 1)                (0.7)
Notes: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
29 This includes auditors (US$ 0.12 million).
30 This covers notably the financial management system (US$0.015 million) under retroactive financing on a
Qualification (CQ) basis.
31 This covers the procurement during the ftrst year (US$0.02 million), and other support and training to the PIT
over the life of the project (US$0.11 million), on an individual basis.



Annex 6, Table A2: Procurement Plan -Bulgaria (GPN published on June 16, 1999)
ICIS Regional Program          CS         4          0Tt6     CQ            N/A              DrafttoBank:             1. Invitation: SPN: February5,2001       July 15,2001    May31,
Dec. 31, 2000            2. Opening: April 15, 2001                                2003
BankNoObj: Feb. 15,      3. Eval&Recom:  June31,2001
2001
Gyueshevo                     CW          I       Total:3.7   ICB           N/A              Draft to Bank            1. Invitation                            AprilN ,2001    May 31,
And Kulata                                        Lot 1: 2.3                                 October 1, 2000          SPN November 30, 2000                                     2002
Lot 2: 1.4                                Bank No Objection        2. Opening March 1, 2001
November 30, 2000        3. Eval. & Recom. March 31, 2001
Vidin                         CW          2          3.1      ICB           N/A              Draftto Bank              1. Invitation                           Noverber 21      March31,
June 15.2000             SPN July 15.2000                         2000             2001
Bank No Objection        2. Opening Sept. 15, 2000
Nuly 15, 2000            3. Eval. & Recom. October 15. 2000
N/A             Draftto Bank              1. Invitation                           April 15,2001    May31,
October 1, 2000          SPN November 30,2000                                      2002
Bank No Objection        2. Opening March 1, 2001
November 30,2000         3. Eval. & Recom. March 31, 2001
Rousse                        CW          1          0.6      ICB           N/A              Draft to Bank             1. Invitation                           April 3,2001    Mayr3 1,
October 1, 2000          SPN November 30, 2000                                    2002
Bank No Objection        2. Opening March 3, 2001
November 30, 2000        3. Eval. & Recom. March 31, 2001
KapitanAndreevo               CW          1           1.2     ICB           N/A              Draft to Bank             1. Invitation                           January 30,      March15,
August 31, 2000          SPN Sept. 30,2000                        2001            2002
Bank No Objection        2. Opening Nov. 30, 2000
September 30.2000        3. Eval. & Recom. Dec. 30,2000
Bourgas                       CW          2           1.3     ICB            N/A             Draftito Bank             1. Invitation                           January 1,2002   May 31,
April 1, 2001            SPN June 30,2001                                          2003
Bank No Objection        2. Opening October R, 2001
Ma 30,2001               3. Eval. & Recom. November 30, 2001
Technical Assistance          CS          2           .6,32     CBS          N/A             No Objection by May 30,    1. Invite proposal from shortlisted firms  Oct. 15,2000  March 31,
Gyueshevo                                                                                    2000                        Oune 30, 2000                                          2001
Rousse                                                                                                                 2. Evaluation and Recommendation
Vidin                                                                        SPN/EOI                                    September 15, 2000
Kapitan Andreevo                                                             Sept. 1, 2000   No Objection by Sept 30,    1. Invite proposal fTom shortlisted firms  January 15,  May 3 1,
Kulata                                                                                       2000                        October 15,2000                        2001            2003
Bourgas                                                                                                                2. Evaluation and Recommendation
December 15, 2000
3 Retroactive financing will apply to the first supervision contract (estimated at US$15,000).
CD    '



Auditors                      CS          i          0.1       LCS           N/A             No Objection by March     1. Invite proposal from shortlisted firms  July 1, 2000  December
15, 2000                   April 15, 2000                                         30, 2003
2. Evaluation and Recommendation
June 15, 2000
PIT support3                  CS          2          0.03      CQ/IC                         TOR Feb 28, 2000          1. Invite qualifications: March 15, 2000  April 15, 2000    December
2. Evaluation and recommendation: April 1,               30, 2003
2000
PIT Support3                  CS          4          0.11      CQ/IC                         N/A
Pl'11 Operating Costs35       NA         NA          0.2
Total                                                11.00
CW= Civil Works, CS= Consulting Services, TR= Training, TA-Technical Assistance, QCBS= Quality and Cost Based Selection, NBF= Not Bank Financed, IS= International Shopping, IC= Individual Consultant
SS=Sole Source
'0C
Retroactive financing for US$30,000 will be applied for the procurement support (IC US$15,000) and for the fimancial management system (CQ US$15,000).                                 x
34 These contracts will be awarded during the project implementation as needs for evaluation support or training arise.                                                               x  cr
35 Retroactive financing for US$65,000 will apply to this component.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 8
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousand                               US $ million
1. Works
>=500,000               ICB           All / US$ 9.9 million
2. Goods                  N.A.
3. Services
Firms                QCBS            >=100,000 / US$ 0.8
LCS (auditors)           million
Individuals           Section V             >=50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 10.7 million
N.A. Not Applicable since there are no contracts of this kind.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
Annex-6 Table B1:
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
The Government of Bulgaria has many years of experience in implementing Bank-financed projects. They
have an average performance for procurement of Works, Goods, and Services.
A Country Procurement Assessment Report was prepared in 1999. It  Are the bidding documents for the
has been discussed and finalized with the Government.       procurement actions for the first
year ready by negotiations:
No
Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of  Date ofpublication of  Indicate if there is     Domestic    Domestic
Project Launch    updated General       procurement subject to     Preference   Preference
Workshop:         Procurement Notice:    mandatory SPN in         for Goods:  for Works, if
Development Business:                 applicable:
May 31, 2000      March 31, 2000         Yes                       N.A.        No
Retroactive Financing: Yes                                         Advance Procurement:
Explain: Setting up of the Financial Management System (US$0.015   No
million), support to prepare first year procurement documents (US$0.015
million), consultant services for design and supervision (US$0.01 5 million)
and incremental operating costs (US$0.065 million)
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The PIT under the Ministry of Finance will oversee all procurement activities under the project and will
ensure procurement is done in accordance with World Bank procedures with support of external
consultants as needs arise. TOR for all consultant services will be submitted for no-objections to the Bank.
The PIT will report on procurement matters in its Quarterly Progress Reports ( See C: 4 e).
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
There will be no joint-financing. For parallel financing, donor procurement procedures will be used.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project:
Name: Els Hinderdael       Extension: 33306
Country Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team and will be assisted in that
regard by procurement advisors.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Suggested Allocation of
Loan Proceeds
Loan               Disbursement
Amount                    %
(Euro)
1. Civil Works                     6,120,000                 65%
2.Consultants' services and training    730,000              100%
3. Incremental Operating Cost        130,000       90% until June 30, 2001;
70% thereafter
4. Fee                                77,300
5. Unallocated                       672,700
Total                              7,730,000



Annex 7
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10 months
First Bank mission (identification)             03/28/1999            03/28/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     12/01/1999            12/15/1999
Negotiations                                    02/15/2000            04/10/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2000               / /
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, BCA and Bank Team
Preparation assistance:                    Magdalena Kusemileva
Dammika Somasundaram
Marie Laygo
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Graham Smith                               Program Team Leader
Gerald Ollivier                            Transport Specialist- Task Manager
Alessandra Iorio                           Counsel
Aly Abu-Akeel                              Counsel
Blaga Djourdjin                            Project Officer
Els Hinderdael                             Procurement Accredited Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu                      Financial Management Specialist
Anca Dumitrescu                            Project Officer
Pedro Taborga                              Sr. Economist
Ryo Eguchi                                 Project Officer
Kenneth Gwilliam                           Peer Reviewer
James Walsh                                Peer Reviewer
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Michel Zamowiecki                          Customs Specialist
Ivan Taborsky                              Customs Specialist
Philip Moeller                             Office Team Leader



Annex 8
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Management information System: Croatia-Romania & Bulgaria
* Trade Facilitation Component Annex - Bulgaria
*  Customs Institutional Reform: Bulgaria
* Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project
* Technical paper regarding the selection of border crossings
C. Other
* EU Assessment of BICIS
*Including electronic files.



BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EIUROPE PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of March 31, 2000
(In US Dollar Millions)
Closed  9
Projects
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                   Expected and Actual
Board Date                                                                  Supervision Rating         Original Amount in US$ Millions       Disbursements a/
Fiscal Year                                                           Development  Implemenitation
Active Projects                                              ieves           Prolessn    IBRD           IDA  Cancel. Undisb.        Orig. Frm Rev'd
1993      P008316      ENERGY                                              S               S              93          0        0    24.37      25.67          0
1994      P008319      WATER COMPANIES REST                                S               S              98          0       41    31.84      60.72      24.28
1996      P008318      HEALTH SECTOR RESTRUCT'URING                        S               S              26          0        0     13.7      15.79          0
1996      P008315      RAILWAY REIIABILITATI                               S               S              95          0        0    16.93      20.54          0
1997      P008323      SOCIAL INSUR. ADMIN.                                S              USS            24.3         0        0     9.86        8.2          0
1998      P033965      ENV. REMED. PILOT                                   S               S              16          0        0    14.69      10.56       -0.25
1999      P055156      REG. INITIATIVE FUND                                lIS             S               5          0        0     1.15      -0.38          0
1999      P051151      SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT LOAN                    S              S              80          0        0    36.52      36.61          0
1999      P057925      AGRICULT. SECT. ADJUST. LOAN I                      S               S            75.76         0        0        0          0          0
2000       P057927     ENV. & PRIV. SUPPORT ADJUST. LOAN                    S              S               50         0        0    47.29          0          0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of February 29, 2000
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                   Euromerchant FND        0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00
1996                  Interlease Inc.          3.21     .30    0.00    0.00    1.71       .30    0.00    0.00
1997                   Sofia Hilton           10.80    0.00    2.00    9.50    3.27    0.00    2.00    0.00
1998                   Devnya Cement          29.98    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   BAC Bank                0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    0.00
1999                  Isiklar Holding         13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00   13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00
2000                   Kronospan Group         12.62    0.00    0.00    9.08    8.22    0.00    0.00    5.91
Total Portfolio:                   70.51    6.80    7.00   18.58   50.31    6.30    2.65    5.91
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999                   BPBANK                 10.00   12.40    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           10.00   12.40    0.00    0.00
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
m )
K) 'C



Annex 10
Page I of 3
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Environmental Management Plan
1. Overview
Since the Trade and Transport facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project is unlikely to have
significant adverse environmental impacts, the project has been rated accordingly as Category B. To
prevent, minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however, this Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) and a set of mitigatory measures have been prepared. Upon review with the client
government it will be signed as an attachment to the PIP.
2. Minimization of Negative Impact
The major concerns about possible negative site-specific impacts associated with border crossings relate
to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of disinfectants and spills of
oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site disruptions caused by upgrades or
relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings, parking/waiting areas, and access roads.
The objective of the TTFSE, to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the
simplification of paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce standing time
and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road side waste, garbage and litter
will also be reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical investment, largely limited to the
improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential threat. Specific actions included in the
EMP (see Exhibit 1) to further minimize potentially negative impact and promote institutional
development include:
* Liaison with Environmental Authorities
* Training and Sensitization
* Site Certification
* Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
* Provisions in Construction Contracts
a. Liaison with EnvironmentalAuthorities
Although liaison is already provided through the Inter-Ministerial Council on Border Point Issues, contact
between the Bulgarian Customs Administration (BCA) and the Ministry of Environment and Waters
(MoEW) needs to be intensified. This will be achieved through the appointment of an environmental
officer in the BCA who will be responsible for liaison, monitoring, and reporting on environmental issues
and the EMP to the Project Implementation Team (PIT) of the TTFSE. 36 Incorporation of the functions
of the environmental officer into the overall, long-term responsibilities of the BCA will be reviewed as
part of the reform process and capacity building process of the BCA. Environmental issues will be
included in the public information program to be provided by the BCA.
b. Training and Sensitization
The BCA environmental officer, in collaboration with the MoEW, will assist the TTFSE training
consultant in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the customs service
relating to the importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures and guidelines
36 The MoEW has already designated the existing MoEW support staff serving the Inter-Ministerial Council on
Cross Border Points as the MoEW liaison for the TTFSE; they would be supervised by the representative of the
MoEW serving on the Inter-Ministerial Council (MoEW management at the level of Deputy Minister).



Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
based on the national environmental regulations will be developed. In coordination with the appropriate
associated ministries and agencies providing control functions at the border such specialized training in
support of veterinary and phyto-sanitary pre-inspections will be designed. Training on the control of the
hunting and gathering of endangered flora and fauna will also be covered.
c. Site Certiflcation
In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all stations, the
BCA environmental officer, jointly with a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Waters, will
inspect all border crossings scheduled for investment under the TTFSE or marked as pilot sites. The
MoEW will review the capacity and appropriate jurisdiction to participate in these inspections. On the
basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and procedures a letter of certification of compliance
will be issued. Particular attention will be given to assure corrective procedures relating to (i) the use of
disinfecting pits at border crossings, (ii) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and chemicals at
sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste materials including hazardous materials, and (iv)
the control of road-side litter and garbage.
d. Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular attention will be
given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental officer will consult with the Ministry of
Environment and waters to ensure progressive application of appropriate standards and to ensure
collaboration with relevant environmental programs and activities funded by the EU. Progress in this area
will be regularly reported to the PIT and included in reports to the Bank. In addition, the project will also
enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions and agreements relating
to the environment.
Especially relevant would be the regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement
Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its
Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES);
(iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment
to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and (iv) the Basel Convention on the Control of
Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal of May 1992.
e. Provisions in Construction Contracts
Although not required by current national environmental regulations, environmental reports will be
prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact and suggest mitigation measures for any
new construction under the TTFSE. These reports would be prepared by the BCA or a qualified
consultant and submitted for a 30 day review by the MoEW. The acceptance of and clearance for
payment by the PIT for work contracted under the TTFSE would be dependent upon the presentation of
such details and a description of supportive action if such was recommended by the MoEW. All contracts
would contain clauses requiring the minimization of noise and dust during construction.



Annex IO
Page 3 of 3
Exhibit 10.1
Liaison with Environmental  The BCA will designate an environmental officer who in collaboration
Authorities                with the PIT will be responsible for: (i) liaison with environmental
officials of the Ministry of Environment and Waters; (ii) the review and
monitoring of the EMP; (iii) the provision of periodic status reports to
the PIT; (iv) consultations with such interested parties as NGOs; and
(iv) and the provision of support for supervision missions. The
government will assure that the BCA environmental officer has access
to information relevant to the project and environmental compliance.
Training and Sensitization    The BCA in collaboration with environmental officials of the Ministry
of Environment and Waters will provide training and sensitization of
staff at each border crossing. Standard procedures will be specified.
Special training will be offered for pre-inspection skills in such related
areas as veterinary and phyto-sanitary inspections and in support of the
protection of endangered species.
Certification of Acceptable   The Ministry of Environment and Waters, jointly with the BCA
Practice at Border         environmental officer, will inspect each border crossing scheduled for
Crossings                  investment under the TTFSE or marked as pilot sites for certification of
the acceptability of practices and minimization of environmental impact
at all stations. Particular attention will be given to (i) the use of
disinfecting pits, (ii) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and
chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste
materials including hazardous materials, and (iv) the control of road-
side litter and garbage.
Harmonization of Standards  One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
international standards. The environmental officer will consult with the
Ministry of Environment and Waters periodically on progress and
provide progress reports to the PIT. The BCA environmental officer
will ensure compliance with evolving regulatory requirements and
conventions.
Construction               Designs for new construction will include an environmental report with
plans for the minimization of negative impacts. Contract documents
will contain clauses requiring minimization of noise, dust, and waste
disposal during construction. All works will comply with local
environmental regulations where applicable.






BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Bulgarian Customs Administration Strategy
Strategic Goals    Strategic Objectives                                      Actions                                          Support
I. Further      1. 1.  Legislative changes   1.  Establishment of a working group from the HQ, which should examine the  EU-Twinning
development of  to harmonise the powers of   possibilities for initiating the necessary legislative changes and should introduce  Arrangement with
the legal base,   BCA with EU practice.      respective draft solution - April 2000.                                     German Customs
harmonised
with the EC.
1.2.  Establish a        I. Assignment of responsible officers from the different Directorates to the HQ who  EU-Twinning
mechanism for                should monitor on a permanent basis the changes in the EU legislation - October 1999. Arrangement with
maintaining/developing    2. Establishment of a permanent working group, which should periodically prepare  German Customs
fcuther our legislation in  proposals for introducing the necessary changes in the national legal base - October
compliance with EC           1999.
amendments.
1.3.  Develop third-level   1. Preparation of instructions for application of the Customs Act and its Regulation for    EU-Twinning
legislation.                 Implementation with the support of German experts - October 2000.          Arrangement with
2. Correction of the preferential rules for origin, laid down in the instructions in  German Customs
compliance with the amendments in the EU Generalised System of Preferences - June
2001.
3. Preparation of the necessary changes in compliance with the expected amendments in
the Common Transit Convention and the SAD Convention - June 2001.
4. Preparation of legal base of third level on collection, full collection, reimbursement,
remission, taking under account, payment, liquidation of customs duties.
1.4.  Develop working    1. Preparation of working instructions in parallel with the OSE envisaged in 1.3.1.  EU-Twinning
instructions in compliance   2.  Preparation of working instructions resulting from obligations under other normative    Arrangement with
requithrthemlegiatie         acts - for example in the field of combat against drugs trafficking, intellectual property
requirements.               rights, etc. - October 2000.
11. Effective   11.1. Establish integrated   I . Adoption of "Strategy for building, implementation and development of the Bulgarian   EU support to
application of    customs information        Integrated Customs Information System (BICIS)" - August 1999.               BICIS
the customs     system.                   2. Selection of a System for data base management (SDBM for BICIS) - September
legislation                                   1999.
_ox



3. First stage of elaboration of customs activity business model, decided by the
Supervisory council on building, implementation and development of BICIS -
September 1999
4. First stage of elaboration of Target model of BICIS, according to the first stage of
elaboration of the customs activity business model - November 1999
5. Elaboration of a Plan for the first stage of BICIS building and implementation -
November 1999
6. Assignment of the organisation for fulfilment of the first stage of BICIS building and
implementation and selection of sub-contractors - December 1999
7. Elaboration of Technical-economic project for the first stage of BICIS building and
implementation - February 2000
8. Elaboration and implementation, according to the Technical-economic project for the
first stage of BICIS building and implementation - March 2001
9. Putting the system into regular operation - May 2001
11.2. Further develop the   I . Creation of a working group and a plan for elaboration of national integrated customs   EU
national integrated customs  tariff, structured as the one of the EC - November 1999
tariff and setting it in  2. Systematization of the non-tariff measures applied and their adaptation in a way,
conformity with the          giving the possibility of including in the project of national integrated customs tariff-
structure of the EU          August 2000
TARIC.
3. Elaboration of a project of national integrated customs tariff, structured as the one of
the EC - December 2000
4. Assignment of responsible officers for updating and maintaining the Integrated
customs tariff - December 2000.
II.3. Establish customs   1 . Further development of the specialised teams for customs intelligence, within the  EU-Twinning
intelligence systems.        structure of the BCA - December 1999.                                         Arrangement with
2. Move to selectivity control of passengers and cargo, based on risk analysis - 2001.  French Customs
3. Preparing a proposal for establishment of a mechanism for exchange of information
with other enforcement agencies - June 2000.
4. Strengthening the role of the post clearance control.
11.4. Prepare for         1. Introduction of collector's function in the BCA - June 2000.                  EU
introduction of the EU   2. Development and introduction of accounting module in the ICIS - September 2000.
customs accounting
system.                   3. Gradual introduction of the EC methods for accounting customs debt - September                       d
2000.                                                                                                CD
.                             oS x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



11.5. Establish an overall  1.  Start up the project (Fight against corruption in the BCA) with the technical support of  EU-Twinning
system for fight against     the French Customs Administration - October 1999.                             Arrangement with
corruption.              2. Examine the activities and the achievements of other candidate member-states in the    French Customs
field of customs ethics.
3. Analysis of the necessary measures in the combat against money laundering.
11.6. Periodically analyse   I . Annual updating of the strategy for qualification and re-qualification of customs  EU
the training needs and        officers - the next one in July 2000.
change in the training    2. Preparation of proposal for setting up of a regional centre for improving the
programs depending on the    qualification of customs officers - November 1999.
needs.
3. Development of plan for language training in EU working languages - January 2000.
4. Development of training plan on European Integration and the future EU accession
matters - March 2000.
IIL Develop-     111. 1. Prepare a sectoral  1 . Re-definition of the criteria for staff selection - March 2000.             EU
ment and         strategy for staff formation   2. Revision of the job description for each working place in compliance with the legal
strengthening    and development,reuemns-Jl200
of the           adequately prepared for
administrative    application of the new   3. Development of draft plan for career promotion - April 2000.
capacity         legislation.              4. Preparation of proposals for regulatory basis, ensuring adequate staff motivation -
March 2000
111.2. Develop a program    1. Development of a system for examining the discrepancies between the administrative
for improvement of the       structures and the number of their employees and the tasks, responsibilities and
administrative structure for  functions before Customs - April 2000.
application of the legal  2. Analysis (review) of the conformity of the responsibilities, tasks and functions of the
acts.
customs administration in accordance with the requirements - July 2000.
3. Analysis of the horizontal and vertical links between the different units (sections) in
the administration - December 1999
IV. Develop-     IV. 1. Improve the        1. Development of detailed instructions for the economic operators.               WB-EU
ment of the      interaction and
relationships    strengthening the mutual    2. Preparation of draft standard Memoranda of Understanding with trade and transport
with other       trust between the             operators - April 2000.
organisations    administration and the
in the country    trade and transport
- with the       operators.
public,
enterprises



IV.2. Ensure effective co-  1. Preparation of proposal for institutionalising the cooperation with other agencies in  EU, US
ordination of interactions   order to improve the information environment (system of securing information at other
with other public-sector     levels in the administration) - December 1999.
agencies.                2. Cooperation with the competent state bodies in their activity on restructuring and
supporting the economic growth.
3. Work out proposals for synchronising the customs legislation with that in other areas,
influencing the results of customs activity.
4. Preparation of draft Memorandums of Understanding with other agencies - June 2000.
IV.3. Improve            1. Development of program for targeted work with the public in order to explain the role   US
communications and feed      and functions of customs administration - March 2000.
back with the public.    2. Consistent work for securing transparency in the operation of customs administration
and informing the public of the results of its activity.
V. Activation of  V.1. Deepen BCA's       1. Preparation of proposal for appointment of a customs attache to the Mission of the
relationships   cooperation with the         Republic of Bulgaria in Brussels - March 2000.
with            corresponding EC agencies  2. Preparation of proposal for procedure on agreeing the positions with EC in
orgarniationsl   oraniaitions inteman         international negotiations concerning customs matters - January 2000.
organizations    organisations in the
customs area.            3. Preparation of proposal for procedure on exchange of best practice with the member-
states and the candidate countries - February 2000.
4. Development of a program for activation of the cooperation with the WCO.
L                                          5. Participation in the programs for international exchange and technical cooperation.
-e1'



Annex 12
Page l of 2
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE
EU Support to Customs Reform Implementation
A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform - Main Activities (EU financed 37)
Estimated Cost US$ 4.6 million
Component      Sub component  Investment                        Detail
QJSS)
1. Monitoring, 1.1. Legal and  1,000,000  Twinning arrangement with the Federal Republic of
review and    operational         (NBF)  Germany including: (i) legal review of Bulgarian
preparation of strengthening of           customs legislation; (ii) development of supporting
BCA           customs                     legislation; (iii) preparation and implementation of new
procedures                                procedures and associated instructions for operational
and HQ staff; (iv) seminars to implement new
procedures/instructions; (v) revenue collection,
accounting, and budgeting strengthening; (vi)
organization and management; (vii) enhanced project
management and measures to guarantee results.
2. Implemen-  2.1. Strengthening 1,000,000  Bilateral agreement with Eurocustoms including the
tation and    of border control   (NBF)  following activities : (i) development of a strategy for
training on                               rationalization of BCA's border operations; (ii)
new                                       procurement of specialized control equipment; and (iii)
procedures                                establishment of a customs dog training center for the
Balkans. The objective is to improve enforcement
capability and increase revenue collection.
2.2. Fight against  2,600,000  Twinning arrangement with the French Customs
corruption in       (NBF)  Administration to increase control and law enforcement
BCA                         to reduce corruption. Main activities include: (i)
preparation of a strategy to fight corruption (specialized
equipment, stimulation fund for officers); (ii)
preparation of normative documents following the
acquis; (iii) strengthening the information system for
anti fraud purpose; (iv) establishment of a fund for
stimulation of customs officers to fight corruption.
2.3. Transit     (Part of    This program initiated in 1995 includes (i) facilitation
Facilitation and    multi-  of intemational commerce; (ii) customs organization
Customs          beneficiary development (pre-accession support, Measures to
Modernization    program)   Improve Efficiency at Border Post); (iii) operational
Program                     efficiency (risk assessment and selectivity, guarantees
and securities, transit); (iv) enforcement; (v)
automation.
2.4. Proposed    (Part of    These activities under review by the EC would include
activities for the   multi-  support for (i) pre-accession, (ii) for transit system, (iii)
multi-country/    beneficiary for commercial and system-based audit, (iv) customs
national program   program)   organization and management, (v) customs internal and
external communication.
37 Financial Memorandum BG 980602 and 981203.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
B. BICIS Improvements - Main Activities (EU financed38)
Estimated Cost with Contingencies US$5.0 million
1. BICIS       Computerization  5,000,000  This component will include the provision of computer
improvement  of BCA                 ('NB1)  hardware, communication equipment, and support in the
management of the BICIS improvement in the form of technical
assistance (quality control, strategic planning) and training in
system software. The objective is to improve management
control (financial accounts/statistics) and business aspects
(accuracy/ efficiency) through the implementation of an
Integrated Customs Information System and the development of
interfaces and additional application software.
3S Financial Memorandum BG 980602.



Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
BULGARIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE
Bulgaria at a glance                                                                 9116/99
Europe &    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   middle-
Bulgaria      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (mi/ions)                          8.2       473       908                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At/as method, USS)                    1.230      2190      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       10.1      1,039     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         -0.6        0.1       1.1     GNP
Labor force (%                                         -0.6        0.6       1.5     GPGroass
per    I                        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of popu/ation below national poverty tine)   36           -
Urban population (% of total population)                69         68         58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        71         69        68
Infant mortality lper 1,000 tive births)                18         23         38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   ..         .         75
Illiteracy (56 Of population ape 15+)                    2          4         14
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    99        100        103         S Bulgaria
Male                                                 100        101       105            -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                98         99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP fUSS billions)                                     28.4       10.1      12.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                          32.9       11.4      14.7
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                      40.8       61.9      45.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                             31.1       16.9      13.7
Gross nafional savings/GDP                            T303        15.7      12.9                        t
Current account balance/GDP                            -2.5        4.2      -2.1      Domesti
Interest payments/GDP                                   1.4        4.3       3.7       omestic                    Investment
Total debtGDP                                          29.1       97.2      80.8      Savings
Total debt service/exports                             17.2       14.4      22.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                 -       92.2
Present value of debt/exports                                    143.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   199943
(averaoe annual qrowth)
GDP                                  3.6     -4.0      -7.0        3.5       4.6         -     Bulgaria
GNP per capita                       3.5     -3.0      -5.9        4.8       5.6               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        6.2    -12.2       3.1      -15.6       3.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         |6
Agriculture                                            11.8       23.8      18.7     40
Industry                                               61.5       25.3      2.5 5
Manufacturing                                                   16.8      17.0      20
Services                                               26.7       50.9      55.7    -20 iC              95                98
Privateconsumption                                     61.5       70.3      71.2    -40 
General govemment consumption                           7.4       12.8      15.1                _ GD1    OGDP
Imports of goods and services                          42.6       56.4      46.3                    0
197747  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   -2.5     -2.1       32.9       1.4    T0
Industry                                      6.4      -6.2      -11.3       4.3    20
Manufacturing                                                  -14.9       6.5     n 
Services                                      3.8      -2.0      -19.3       4.0
Private consumption                           3.3      -4.9      -22.8      -4.7             93 X r 95 095
General govemment consumption                 8.6      -4.3       -1.4       4.0    -i 
Gross domestic investment                     3.2      -7.7       33.1      44.3   -20
Imports of goods and services                 6.1    -16.3        -2.7      -2.8             -E xports   Imports
Gross national product                        3.7      -3.8       -6.6       4.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
Bulgaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977      1987      1997       1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           11,200T
Consumer prices                                                1,082.3      22.3   |00
Implicit GDP deflator                                   0.1      949.1      22.2
Government finance                                                                                               f
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       _     _o_°_ _
Current revenue                                        60.2       32.7      34.6               93   94   95   96   97   98
Current oudget balance                                             1.7       4. 1GDP deflator                        PI
Overall surplusideficit                                            2.1        2.8                       d
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1996    I
(USS millions)                                                                        Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  10.287      4,940     4,293     s0 -0
Other metal                                         1,801
Other agriculture                                   1,479
Manufactures                                                                        4 4,000 i . 
Total imports (cif.   11,298                                     4,932     4,995           d                   I
Food                                                  409        141       192   |2.D0
Fuelandenergy                                       1,565      1594       1151    1
Capital goods512                                                 86        07          0
Export price index (1995=100)                           95         98         86            92  93  94  95  96  97  9B
Import price index (1995=100)                           65          87        85                   tExports   U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               148        112       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
197 1987       1997       1998    i
(USS millions)                               1                                        Current account balance to GOP ratio (%  |
Exports of goods and services                        11,444      6,277     5.548   |    T
Inm.rnrts of goods and services                  . 11959         5,730     5,716       3
Resource balance                                       -515       547       -168
Net income                                             -314      -357       -314          i
Net current transfers                                   108       237        230
Current account balance                                -721       427       -252
Financing items (net)                                  389        820        697 
Changes in net reserves                                 332     -1,247      -445          92   93  94  95  96  97  9B
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..       ..      2,474     3.057
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                ..      1.3    1,696.0   1,760.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           38    8.266       9,859     9.907
IBRO                                          0        0        501        697                    G 460 A: 697
IDA                                           0        0          0          0
Total debt service                              2    1,989        932      1,296
IBRO                                          0        0         47         57
IDA                                           °        °          a                                                  s
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        0        129         59
Official creditors                            0      651         -75        73                                     E 1,2a6
Private creditors                             1      779         -59        32
Foreign direct investment                              0        507        401    !     F
Portfolio equity                                       0        133       -219
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0        140        101      A - IBRO                     E - Biateral
Disbursements                                 0        0        101        197      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0         16         20      C-IMF                        G- Short-term
Net flows                                     0        0         85        177    __1
Interest payments                             0        0         31         37
Net transfers                                 0        0         54        140
World Bank                                                                                                             9/16/99



-                                                                                                                                                                       880~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 30859
~~~~~~~TRIAL.                                                                                                                                                            ratctsoq  1c"-  o   ieovc
Oh  ~~~~~~5WM.re
J  rn,.         d9  GlGo   {                          /Seeooeoc,- 
376V <obIan~~~~                              7                                                                                                                      Piece-                       - kTigleo 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oes
Trojblj            Trrecrcot'                                                                                                                              M. 
Woke ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 1                                   'ee                  yj
'N        I                            N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          0                           90000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C- ~~~~~~~~~~~l~BO~NIAN
AKb'\                                             'HERZEG                   I II!!'A   S< ¼           F      . R           F                                                          rFCntnac                               oolr
split r         r            aralevo '
T A Lv                                                          4tY~n 
SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGIONdZ.r
TRADE AND TRANSPORT                                                                          Sho~                  \ C  4YGusevo
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST21                                                                             Qae .ren.
EUROPE  PROJECT                                                                                  .. K-n                Pi       r
(BULGARIA)IL.                                                                                                                          Dc-
cw  NR,~kCR FKOJET                   '     o                               o             iaacKafasan    Plop                      LW *.                    v...        .,.
L] DESIGN PROJECT                                   -
Al    PILOT INLAro 0 MIE ~NAIL
19 COMrFNRDPILOTAND NF-ecIUCOURc 
9   br.  ccc Err. oror.r.POco ((ccc 20(5  J  -  00c6 
MoIccD RoKOADKS                            -
o         rSOTCFES                                                                                                                             -.
--INTE0RNAL OT AL 00U-cAR ES                                    ion 0  2  150    200       .drerOe -0ri1                                                                                                                         erv r&,,frW4fli
MAYO 0






ILW IN   :                              ~~~~~~SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
UKRAINE                               ~~~TRADE AND TRANSPORT
N::                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
N                                ~~~~~EUROPE PROJECT
AUSTRIA                                                                                  moo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.N    j .'>   'N                               (BULGARIA)
$3600 $3500                                                  ~~~~~~~~~MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
Exporls, Import6s  Exporl  Import '65N
V> 'm$400$l00,       1500 S1700                                         NHUNLo'xTcARYorI
S`671                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPORTS (i/5S, MI/So-)  f PORT  WIS M sr
A  I                ~~~~~~~~~~WOSrf,,rx@ ~B-oo  33S0T2l  Wb,o o'T-poo-r,/
2                                        OMANIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC-1, P.0w    P-,,,0-r,
$A32 $                                                                                                                                                            S-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'oo,ISuI  '~"    rorP,w/oI
10/2 10/2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$16                                                                                                o
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
yi ft-                   1$30/32 130/3                             E,,,",Ropod                               MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
218, $2100                    ~~~~~~$323
SAN MARINO     0                                                                                                                                                 $~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mr.81015                       ODE PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
1  4  ~       ~        ~          
-  $28000
p-on                    Sect                                               $1888
$14    0                                                                                                                                                                              $500~~~~$70 200GAI  ,~sla
1900 $19 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0 
ITALY                                                                                                                                                               Eoli                              ~~S
$80$800    .     2/                                                                                                                            B xot  mot.OSONIA &  A I    0 0    2.5   1200
$200    90                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~377 $297                                                           NEEZEGOVINA
AlCAKIHA          7              PT                            '~~~~~~~~~.o' .1                          -         8R548     ULGSARIA         12 3    40o    50(   1230
S, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x 'CROATIA    20~5  4.4  8.8 4520
FYR MACEDONIA      335    1 3    1.9   1290
14                                                                '77 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OANA32        8 3    11 8    1392
-'                                            N         1                                                   0            100          200          300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  (
9631424  ') 5                                                 NI                                                                                
91 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JKILOMETERS
I'                                                              T~~~~~~          ~      ~~UREIp. o'orx/  xrZ,pS'RT'4



