                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 34588

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (SCL-45530)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.4 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

                                       FOR A

          TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT




                                    March 30, 2006




Infrastructure Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective September 2005)

                  Currency Unit = BGN
                         1 BGN = US$ 0.644
                         US$ 1 = BGN 1.553

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -   December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


 APL                Adjustable Program Lending
 BCA                Bulgarian Customs Administration
 BCCI               Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
 BCP                Border Crossing Point
 BICIS              Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System
 EDI                Electronic Data Interchange
 EU                 The European Union
 FMS                Financial Management System
 GDP                Gross Domestic Product
 IRU                International Road Transport Union
 LAN                Local Area Network
 MOF                Ministry of Finance
 MOU                Memorandum of Understanding
 NCA                National Customs Agency
 PIT                Project Implementation Team
 PSR                Project Status Reports
 RSC                Regional Steering Committee
 SAD                Single Administrative Document
 SECI               Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
 SOE                Statement of Expenditures
 TIR                Transport International Routier
 TOR                Terms of Reference
 TTFSE              Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
 UNECE              United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
 WAN                Wide Area Network




                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director      Anand Seth, ECCU5
               Sector Manager       Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Doncho Barbalov, ECSIE

                                          BULGARIA
  TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            36

Maps IBRD Nos. 30859 and 30431

Project ID: P070086                                                  Project Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South
                                                                     East Europe
Team Leader: Doncho Petrov Barbalov                                  TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East             L/C/TF Number: SCL-45530
                            Europe
   Country/Department: BULGARIA                                                           Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Regional integration (P); Tax policy and administration (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1999                                     Effective:                           11/29/2000
     Appraisal: 02/03/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/25/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE/CUSTOMS
                                           DIRECTORATE
                      Other Partners:      Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, BULPRO

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Doncho Petrov Barbalov                         Gerald Paul Ollivier
ICR Primary Author:             Doncho Barbalov; Sati Achath;
                                Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

In November 2001, the Bank identified serious delay in the implementation of both the customs reform and
of procurement. The project was rated unsatisfactory on implementation progress. The Bank and the
Government agreed on an action plan to bring the performance at pilot sites back to a satisfactory level
within a six month period. After successful implementation of the plan, the project was upgraded to
satisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the US$12.50 million project (Loan US$7.4 million) were to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs to
trade and transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. The project formed part
of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) that aimed to
strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control agencies in Albania, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Romania. Serbia
and Montenegro, first, and then Moldova joined the program later, bringing the total to eight countries. The
project was the result of a collaborative effort among the Government of Bulgaria (GOB), the World Bank,
the European Union (EU) and the United States of America (USA).

The objectives were straightforward, clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social
development, and realistic in scale and scope. These objectives were expected to be achieved by: (i)
supporting Customs reform; (ii) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between private
and public parties at regional, national and local levels; (iii) disseminating information and providing
training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and
(v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new customs procedures, information technology,
human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms for
agencies at border crossings. These actions have been common to all TTFSE program countries.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria, discussed by
the Board on April 28, 1998 (Document No. R98-84; IFC/R98-59). The assistance strategy of the Bank
Group for Bulgaria emphasized the four priority areas outlined in the Government's key strategy document
"Bulgaria 2001: Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria - 1997-2001":

(i) Promoting Structural Reform and Private Sector Development. The highest priority was given to
support for policy reforms to further liberalize trade, eliminate direct government participation in the sector,
and establish the prerequisites for efficiency in markets.

(ii) Strengthening and Rationalizing the Role of the State. The Bank supported a key criterion for the
EU accession, the strengthening of public administration.

(iii) Fighting Poverty and Developing Human Capital. The Bank would help strengthen the pension system and
such social assistance systems as health financing regime and primary health care services.

(iv) Protecting and Enhancing the Environment. The Bank supported the efforts of the Government to comply
with the EU environmental standards by focusing on environmental liabilities of enterprises to be privatized and
raising public awareness.

The project was especially in line with the objectives (i) and (ii) above. It supported the restructuring of the BCA to
better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport costs, decreasing the price of imported goods, and
improving the competitiveness of Bulgarian products, thereby promoting private sector growth and job creation in
the country. The project also supported the BCA in strengthening its tax collection capacity, while reinforcing
ongoing efforts against corruption.


                                                         - 2 -

The project design reflected lessons learned from earlier projects in Bulgaria and other countries in the
region. For example, the Transit Facilitation Project in Macedonia highlighted the need to: (i) tailor the
complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of
implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv) maintain
flexibility to ease implementation.

The project envisioned the following social and economic benefits: introduction of streamlined and
transparent Customs procedures would contribute to decreases in trade and transport costs, a more reliable
business environment, and economic growth as a result of lower prices of imports and more competitive
prices/services for exports. These would be translated into: (i) cheaper import goods/inputs for Bulgarian
consumers and industries; (ii) better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities,
particularly for the trade activities of small and medium enterprises; (iii) more predictable and reliable
economic setting for foreign companies; (iv) improved facilitation for transit traffic; (v) reduction of
corruption and smuggling opportunities; (vi) improved revenue collection by the BCA, enabling reduction
in tariffs; (vii) uninterrupted services of information system and better integrity of data; and (viii) closer
approximation with EU standards and procedures.

The project was not very complex in terms of design or implementation. It was quite demanding, however,
because: (i) it required a high level of government commitment and good intra-, inter- and cross-border
agency coordination; (ii) it required coordination with other donors, namely, the USA and the EU; and (iii)
re-orienting Customs to become a more service oriented organization required a change in culture.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of five components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. These were
standard components replicated in all TTFSE projects. The PIT had sufficient technical, administrative and
financial capacity for successful project management.

Component I: Customs Administration Institutional Reform (US$0.9 million: 7.5% of the total
project cost)

Included: (i) technical services to monitor BCA's performance; (ii) technical services to streamline
operations at two border posts and one inland terminal on a pilot basis; and (iii) training for inter-agency
awareness and cooperation. This technical support would complement ongoing EU activities to help
implement the BCA strategic plan. Cooperating partners in the Inter-Ministerial Council on Border Point
Issues would be involved in the definition of the new procedures and combat against fraud.

Component II: Trade Facilitation Development (US$0.4 million: 3.5% of the total project cost)

Included: (i) provision of technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international transport
participants through the Chamber of Commerce; (ii) improvement of cooperation between public and
private parties using a virtual forum; and (iii) provision of equipment to support information availability.




                                                      - 3 -

Component III:        Improvement of Bulgaria Integrated Customs Information System (BICIS)
(US$0.1million: 0.5% of the total project cost)

Included a regional experience-sharing program on integrated systems for border agencies. This component
would stimulate regional and interagency cooperation.

Component IV: Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities (US$10.5 million: 83.4% of the Total
Project Cost)

Included civil works and improvement of the utilities at six border posts: exit and entry processing lanes;
new buildings, booths and canopies; utilities; heating, sanitary and electrical systems; and truck terminal
areas at Gyueshevo, Vidin, Rousse, Kapitan Andreevo, Kulata and Bourgas. It also comprises design and
supervision of the civil works.

Component V: Program and Project Implementation (US$0.6 million: 5% of the Total Project Cost)

This component included the services required to support both the regional implementation of the program,
and the national project. At the regional level these consisted of providing secretariat services to the
Regional Steering Committee (RSC); at the national level, services included financing auditors and
procurement consultants, the PIT staff, establishment of a financial management system, and training the
PIT/Implementing Agencies staff.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Highly Satisfactory. The ICR deems the quality at entry to be highly satisfactory and the project as well
conceived. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a Quality at Entry Assessment and rated the
overall assessment as highly satisfactory.

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the Government
priorities, and met the critical needs of Bulgaria's trade and transport sector. Since the PIT was established
with the appropriate technical capacities, the quality of project design was generally adequate to meet the
project's objectives. During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other
earlier projects in Bulgaria and other countries were considered and incorporated into the project design.

The project was prepared in collaboration and consultation with exporters; importers; producers and
consumers; road transport operators; freight forwarders/shippers; traders organizations and BULPRO;
MOF and BCA; Inter-Ministerial Council on Border Point Issues, Ministry of Transport and
Communications, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of the Environment and Waters, and National
Border Police; Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agrarian Reform, especially sanitary and veterinary
inspection agencies; and foreign investors. In addition, consultations were held with such other key
stakeholders as the European Commission, the US Government and other development partners; the
International Road Transport Union (IRU) and the Federation of International Forwarding Agents
(FIATA); and private companies and populations in the vicinity of the border crossings. This kind of
extensive stakeholder consultations and the participatory process in project preparation substantially
contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.




                                                      - 4 -

During project preparation, three project designs were considered:

    Regional Program of Investment Projects. A regional program of coordinated border crossing
facilitation projects was more advantageous and was selected since it was expected to: (i) generate
substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade partner countries of
Bulgaria; (ii) allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs and
border control procedures/operations; (iii) be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of
European integration, and the impact of the EU enlargement process; (iv) enable the Bank to coordinate
with    other   donors     that  also   implement     regional  programs;    and   (v)    minimize    project
implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.

    Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country. The possibility of preparing independent
projects for each participating country was reviewed and rejected since the achievement of overall project
objectives would be greatly aided by simultaneous standardization and harmonization of cross-border
institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among countries and with the EU.

    Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL). A regional or "horizontal" APL, would have enabled
sequential entry of countries in the Program. This horizontal APL, however, was judged to be unfeasible
because: (i) such delegation by the Board was thought unlikely; and (ii) the determination of the future
value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program would have been a delicate
and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory.

The project met its development objectives through: (i) its support to Customs reform; improved interaction
between private and public sectors; (ii) dissemination of information and training to private sector; (iii)
financing of infrastructure and equipment; and (iv) implementation at pilot sites of integrated Customs
procedures and new information technology, which has contributed to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and
transport. The project has also contributed in reducing smuggling at border crossings through the use of
selective examination. Bulgaria has also moved on fighting corruption by proposing changes in the Penal
Code to sentence bribers with prison term of up to six years and fine of up to $2,000. The evidence has
shown that through supporting electronic data interchange, the project has enhanced processing
transparency, thus reducing corruption at border crossings as well. According to the BEEPS Survey ,        1


corruption perceived as a problem doing business by firms in Bulgaria reduced from 55% in 2002, to 38%
in 2005. The same Survey also showed that percentage of firms that stated that bribery is frequent for
Customs, reduced from 26% in 2002 to 10% in 2005. Additional strengthening of the Customs Information
system, as well as enhancing inter-agency information exchange will further reduce corruption
opportunities. The implementation of the border crossing rehabilitation component has created a proper
flow of traffic and space for vehicle inspection/processing, thus expediting the border crossing time. At the
same time, the physical improvements contributed to better working conditions of Customs front line
officers. Similarly, implementation of BICIS accelerated the speed in processing customs clearance, and
faster transmission of statistics and risk analyses to/from HQ. BULPRO has completed the Trade
Facilitation component with all of the workshops delivered as planned. The TTFSE website has been
upgraded and is operational.




                                                     - 5 -

A large part of the success in meeting the development impact was linked to the continuous monitoring of
performance, the constant presence of US funded consultants on the ground, together with regular
interactions between our Team and the client. Frequent change in the Ministry of Finance/Customs
organization led however to delays in the implementation of the procurement plan at the early stages of the
project implementation.
The total project cost, excluding taxes, was reduced to US$8.7 m compared to the original estimate of
US$10.1. Part of this reduction can be attributed to the successfully conducted tenders for the construction
works as well close monitoring on the performance of the contractors by the MOF team. Another reason of
the savings was the uncompleted contract for the Gyueshevo border crossing point where only 90% of the
works were completed and thus EUR 330,000 of the contract amount was not disbursed.

The details are as follows:

A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform

(a) National Performance Indicators. During project implementation, the development objective
indicators made substantial progress as shown below:


                                                                                                              Sept. Sept.
           Indicators           1999 2000   2000     2001    2001    2002   2002   2003  2003    2004    2004 2005  2005
                                Act  Targ    Act     Targ     Act    Targ    Act   Targ   Act    Targ    Act  Targ   Act
 Development Objective
 Achievements
 Revenue Collected/ Customs     265   250    283     265     310     310    355     403   498     403    715  403    667
 staff (US$000)
 Total BCA Cost/Revenue         1.37  <1.5    1.2    <1.5    1.18    <1.5    1.3   <1.5  1.27    <1.5    1.00 <1.5  0.75
 Collected (%)
 Salaries/Revenue Collected (%) 0.66  <0.7   0.57    <0.7    0.83    <0.7   0.98   <0.7  0.94    <0.7    0.75 <0.7  0.57
 Trade Volume/Number of Staff   2508  880   2962     970     3376    1060   3685   1060  4920    1160    6611 1160  5826
 (US$ thousands)
 Annual Number of Declarations/ 267   300    306     350     367     600    561     600   737     600    720  600    562
 Custom Staff
 Value of Recorded Imports (US$ 5515 5300   6507     5750    7261    6200   7903   6200  10742   6200   14338 6200  12994
 million)
 Value of Recorded Exports (US$ 4006 4450   4825     4900    5113    5400   5692   5400  7484    5400    9865 5400  8499
 million)
 Average rate of exchange       1.809       2.118           2.184           2.064        1.735          1.575       1.553
 BGN/USD for the period


Notes:
1. Targets for 2000-2003 are as per PAD. Targets for 2004 and 2005 are the same as for 2003.
2. The first target Revenue Collected/ Customs Staff given in the PAD in 1,000 DEM was re-estimated in USD using the
average rate of exchange BGN/USD for each year.
3. Actual values of indicators are calculated on the basis of data provided by Customs Quarterly Reports.


    The revenue collected/customs staff increased from $265,000 in 1999 to $425,000 in June 2005 (a
     60% increase).
    Total BCA cost/revenue collected (%) improved to 0.74 in June 2005 against the target <1.5.This ratio
     was 1.37 in 1999.
    Salaries/revenue collected (%) improved to 0.57 in June 2005 against the target of <0.7. In 1999 this
     ratio was 0.66.
    Trade volume/number of staff increased fourfold from $2,508,000 in 1999 to $5,826,000 in September
     2005, exceeding the target of US$1,160,000.
    Annual Number of Declarations/Custom Staff increased from 267 in 1999 to 720 in September 2005.



                                                               - 6 -

 Value of Recorded Imports: The value increased from $5,515 million in 1999 to US$12994 million in
  September 2005.
 Value of Recorded Exports: The value increased from $4006 million in 1999 to US$8499 million in
  September 2005.




                                              - 7 -

(b) Pilot Sites Indicator

                                                                                                         June June
         Indicators             1999     2000 2000 2001   2001   2002   2002    2003    2003   2004 2004 2005 2005
                                 Act     Targ Act  Targ   Act    Targ    Act    Targ     Act   Targ Act  Targ Act
 Pilot Sites Clearance
 Performance
 Pilot Inland Terminal
 (Plovdiv)
 (Plovdiv) - Import Clearance    210      80  194   60    198     50      80     40      42     40  59.1  40  62.5
 Time (min)                   (re-estimat
                                  ed)
 (Plovdiv) - Physical            100      25  100   20    98.6    10      99     5        5     5   2.3   5    3.9
 Examination (%)
 (Plovdiv) - Trucks cleared in    0       0    0    10    1.2     20      0      40     23.6    40  7.3   40   2.9
 less than 15 min. (%)
 (Plovdiv) -                      3       5   0.9   8     0.3     10      0      15       0     15   0    15   0
 Irregularities/Number of
 Examinations (%)
 Pilot Border Crossings
 (Rousse)
 (Rousse) - Truck                 15      12   0    10    49.8    8      3.6     5       0.0    5   0.7   5    0.2
 Examination (%)
 (Rousse) -                       2       5    0    10     0      20      0      40       0     40   0    40   0
 Irregularities/Number of
 Examinations (%)
 (Rousse) - Average Border        60      28  22.5  25     36     23    22.7     20      36     20   15   20  15.4
 Exit Time (min)
 (Rousse) - Average Border        60      28  47.5  25     34     23      18     20      17     20  25.1  20  28.4
 Entry Time (min)
 Pilot Border Crossings
 (Gyueshevo)
 (Gyueshevo) - Truck              15      12   0    10    13.6    8     20.2     5       8.7    5   12.8  5   10.95
 Examination (%)
 (Gyueshevo) -                    2       5    0    10     0      10      0      40       0     40  9.1   40  15.6
 Irregularities/Number of
 Examinations (%)
 (Gyueshevo) - Average            30      28  19.5  25    10.7    25    10.7     20      16     20  24.7  20  28.5
 Border Exit Time (min)
 (Gyueshevo) - Average            30      28   27   25    11.7    25    11.7     20      15     20  19.1  20  22.5
 Border Entry Time (min)


Note: Targets for 2000-2003 are as per PAD. Targets for 2004 and 2005 are the same as for 2003.


Major improvements of the pilot site indicators were achieved in the early years of the project
implementation. In 2004 and 2005 some of the indicators deteriorated due to the increased volumes of
goods coming to and through Bulgaria. This was one of the reasons for the Bulgarian Government to
request a follow-up TTFSE project focused on assisting infrastructure improvements at the key border
crossings some of which were not part of the first project.

Impact of the Pilot Sites Initiatives. Introduction for a first time in Bulgaria of regular monitoring of
customs activities was a great achievement which came into place with the support of US Customs under
the project.        The improved indicators show that institutional reform brought tangible results which
supported regional trade by achieving major reduction in processing times at the three pilot sites. The
reduction of processing times was substantial at the beginning the project which brought early on benefits to
the private sector. The customs administration agreed to continue measuring the same indicators within one
year after the completion of the project which would allow them to estimate the sustainability of the
institutional improvements. Another major achievement was the reduction of physical examinations. While
initially the majority of the tracks were subject to examination, the number of checks was reduced due to
the introduction of risk assessment application and methodology under the project which allowed for better


                                                           - 8 -

targeting.

Replicating TTFSE Pilot Sites. The BCA made a significant progress in the implementation of the replication
plan and in particular:

    Three Customs offices were identified for the expedited procedures for delivery of containers arriving at
     seaports initiative;
    Twelve Customs offices were identified for the acceptance of advanced declarations at inland Customs
     office initiative;
    All border crossing points during the first phase and all inland Customs offices during the second phase
     have been included in the initiative for refining the targeting and selectivity process through uniform
     reporting and analysis of physical examination results; and
    The implementation of the approved replication plan faced a problem, because the BICIS did not
     support the processing of advance declarations. Meanwhile, a contractor was hired to develop a module
     which would allow the submission of advance declarations to BICIS. The module was completed by
     the end of 2004. The lodging of advanced Customs declarations at the Plovdiv CH has started with five
     companies that passed training for proceeding with the sub-module for the economic operators.

Refining Targeting and Selectivity Process. The formats for physical examination of road vehicles have
been developed and introduced at identified pilot sites subordinated to the Rousse customs. The program
has been generally accepted, but some proposals for improvements have been made.

B. Trade Facilitation (TF) Development

TTFSE Website. The website has been upgraded allowing the website coordinators to view the work in
progress during development. The acceptance tests have been successfully performed and the web site has
been launched to the users and general public.

GFP-DLI under TTFSE. The pilot phase of the Certificate of Professional Competence for Road
           2


Transport Operators, managed by the road transport association AEBTRI has been successfully concluded.
The National Center for Vocational Training has provided active support in promoting the GFP-DLI
initiative, internationally as well as nationally. The Center is promoting the development of a Virtual
Academy for the Association of Balkan Chambers. The Center is also actively involved in the preparation
of the new GFP-DLI Program on Supply Chain Management Training Program, and is one the Core
contributors to the initiative.

BULPRO Activities. BULPRO continues to pursue a very active reform agenda, which includes Single
Payment Window, the introduction of the International Weight Certificate, the pilot implementation of
UneDocs with Turkey, solutions for strengthening the regional TTFSE website and further developing it.
Political support has been expressed by the Stability Pact and SECI Coordinator regarding these initiatives,
but additional support by the Government will be required to ensure that these efforts can be practically
implemented. This may require a change in the structure of BULPRO. BULPRO requested support from
the Bank to ensure that the Government will be receptive to implement these new concepts. BULPRO
underlined the particular need to follow up on the multiple new non-tariff trade barriers, which are
emerging, and suggested that non tariff barriers be included in the TTFSE website.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. Customs Administration Institutional Reform




                                                     - 9 -

A. Monitoring and Review of BCA Procedures

Bulgarian Customs Administration Strategy

Several amendments of the Customs Act and its Implementation regulation were prepared with the intent to
carry on the process of harmonization of Bulgarian Customs legislation with the EU law. Bilateral Customs
cooperation agreements were signed (during project implementation) with Azerbaijan, Armenia, Iran,
Albania, Moldova, Poland, France, Slovakia and Slovenia. In July 2002 the State-Public Consultative
Commission was established to support the development of the Customs administration. Relating to
international Customs conventions, Bulgaria acceded to the following international customs conventions:
Convention on temporary import in 2003; and the Protocol of amendment to the International convention on
the simplification and harmonization of Customs procedures (the revised Kyoto Convention) in 2004.

The following major documents were signed during project implementation: (i) Agreement on cooperation
and interaction between the National Audit Office and the Customs administration (in 2002); (ii) Instruction
for interaction between the National Customs Agency (NCA) and the Tax administration (in 2004); (iii)
Agreement between the National Customs Agency and the Supreme Public Prosecutor (in 2004); (iv)
Information exchange agreement between the NCA and the Military Police and Counter-intelligence Service
(in 2004); and (v) Memorandum of cooperation in the field of intellectual and industrial property rights
protection in Bulgaria between the NCA, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry
of Justice and Patent Authority (in 2005).

Improvement of the Cooperation with Customs Administrations from the Region of Southeast Europe

The management of the BCA has initiated meetings with the management of Customs administrations of
Southeast European countries (Macedonia, Turkey, Serbia, Croatia, Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina).
At these meetings the BCA has proposed to discuss the opportunity for initiating mutual data exchange by
electronic means. The latter will support the efforts of the administrations to combat fraud, contraband and
illegal drug trafficking. The Director General of the BCA took active part in various regional forums and
conferences, including the RSC meetings.

B. Implementation and Training on New Procedures

Pilot Initiatives and Replication

In 2003 the BCA, jointly with the STAT, developed an Action Plan for replication of three pilot initiatives.
The following Customs offices were identified for replication of the pilot site concept:

(i) Varna-East CP, Varna-West CP and Bourgas CH: for the expedited procedures for delivery of
      containers arriving at seaports initiative;
(ii) Sofia CH, Plovdiv CH, Gorublyane CB, TK Evropa CB, Ilijanci CB, Varna Avto CB, Kremikovci
      CB, Suhodol CB, Rousse CB, Kyustendil CH, Obelja CB, and Blagoevgrad CH for the acceptance of
      advanced declarations at inland Customs offices initiative; and
(iii) All border crossing points during the first phase and all inland Customs offices during the second phase
      of the initiative for the refining the targeting and selectivity process through uniform reporting and
      analysis of physical examination results initiative.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.




                                                       - 10 -

Component II. Trade Facilitation Development

(i) Strengthening of Public-Private Partnership

This component supported the activities of BULPRO, gathering main stakeholders from the private sector,
Chamber of Economy, Association of Freight Forwarders, and the public sector, Foreign Trade Center,
Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, and BCA. The outputs included:

    An extensive public outreach effort to raise awareness on trade and transport facilitation over the
     years 2001-2004, in the form of articles and promotional editorials published in magazines such as
     Newspaper- "Infobusiness", "Pari"; TV- "BBT", "BNT"; Radio- "Nova Europa", Radio "Darik".

    Public Outreach

           Country          Articles              TV              Radio             Other      Total Activities
      Albania                 8                   1                 0                 5              14
      Bosnia Herzegovina      6                   2                 12                3              23
      Bulgaria                44                  4                 2                 3              53
      Croatia                 21                  1                 0                 0              22
      F.Y. Rep. of            28                  8                 15                0              51
      Macedonia
      Moldova                 10                  2                 2                 3              17
      Romania                 36                  1                 0                 5              42
      Serbia Montenegro       9                   3                 2                 4              18
      Total                  162                  22                33                23            240


    Active regional opportunities to cooperate. The PRO committees of Southeast Europe met three to
     four times a year regionally to discuss about the Trade Facilitation component and other trade
     facilitation issues. They also met regularly on a bilateral basis to address urgent issues and discuss
     cooperation.
    The willingness by the private sector to match grant funding of the Trade Facilitation component. The
     PRO Committees provided a full matching of donor contribution that was directly targeted to them,
     ensuring their active commitment to the program.
    The elaboration and release of a joint information platform for users (www.ttfse.org). The website,
     designed and maintained regionally provides information on requirements of many border agencies in
     Southeast Europe. Multiple regional coordination meetings were organized to define and build the
     platform.
    Three exchange programs to the US focused on border issues, supply chain management and security,
     and use of analytical tools (trade facilitation audits) to review their present status.

(ii) Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents

Training and Seminars

BULPRO and the National Center for Vocational Training (NCVT) successfully completed the three year
training program. BULPRO has published the Guide for Crossing Bulgarian Borders which provides full
information on legislation, regulation and related documents related to crossing of Bulgarian borders by
passengers, traders and legal entities.

                         Training                                                 Units
   Seminar Units                                                                    50



                                                      - 11 -

   Seminar Units: Attendance                                                     1,004
   Seminar Units: Cities Reached                                                  14

A total of 1,004 participants were trained under the project by BULPRO on topics such as trade procedures
and documentation, transport contracts, INCOTERMS. About 65 percent of participants rated the seminars
highly satisfactory and 33 percent satisfactory.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component III. BICIS Improvement

A. Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System (BICIS)

Currently, the functionality of BICIS provides for the automated processing of Customs documents in all
Customs offices and for all types of Customs regimes and procedures, stipulated in the Customs Act and its
Implementation regulation. Moreover, the management of all types of transit operations is automated in real
time and at the national level. The system ensures the maintenance and usage of an electronic Integrated
Customs tariff. Functions for preparation of reference information and reports related to the various levels
of the administration management process are associated with BICIS. According to the BICIS Development
plan for Stages 2 and 3, the following core tasks were accomplished during project implementation:

(i) Introduction of a new version of BICIS 1 in all Customs offices in 2002;

(ii) Putting into operation of the web-based BICIS 2.1 in all Customs offices and completion of the net
      necessary for the proper exploitation of BICIS 2.1 in 2003;

(iii) The start of the activities associated with the project "Construction of Advance Submission of Customs
      Declarations Module to BICIS", financed within the TTFSE project in 2004; and

(iv) Introduction of BICIS 2.2, the Customs Authorities Decision Module, Customs Debt Module and Risk
      Analysis Module, in all Customs offices in 2005, and materialization of the BICIS amendment which
      will enable electronic lodgement of data contained in requests for permission of Customs economic
      regimes.

Furthermore, the specification development of BTMS 2.1 stage of the project "Bulgarian transit
management system (BTMS)"-phase 2, which started in September 2004, was completed in January 2005;
this system will meet the requirements of the EU New Computerized Transit System 3.1 (NCTS 3.1) and
NCTS 3.2. The Supervision council established under the BTMS project-phase 2, took up at its meeting in
June 2005 the first six-month project report; the project stage "development of BTMS 2.1" is in progress.

The project directly assisted in the development of BICIS through the development of a module which
allowed the replication of the pilot site initiatives at other locations.

The TTFSE Project comprised the development of Advanced Submission of Customs Declaration Module
to BICIS, which was put into operation at the Plovdiv CH, in compliance with the Plan for replication of
pilot initiatives. The Plovdiv Customs house (CH) has worked out and consequently approved the
Guidelines for economic operators and Guidelines for advanced declarations processing under the project
"Construction of Advanced Submission of Customs Declarations Module to BICIS". The aforesaid
documents describe the steps to be followed by the economic operators and Customs officials when dealing



                                                        - 12 -

with advanced Customs declarations.

B. Exchange Program

The first meeting of the TTFSE RSC Working Group on exchange of information was held in 2003, in Sofia. The
establishment of the Working Group on exchange of information called upon the Recommendation of the
National TTFSE Coordinators, done at the sixth RSC meeting (2002), and the follow-up of the seventh
RSC meeting (2003). The general objective of the Working Group was to analyze and submit proposals to
the RSC, in two aspects: (i) legal basis and level of information exchange, type of data to be exchanged;
and (ii) IT solutions of the data exchange, including standards and means of data exchange. The Working
Group considers the WCO Customs Data Model as a good basis, on which the countries could bilaterally
agree upon the specific scope of the regular information exchange for the purposes of risk analysis and
trade facilitation.

During project implementation, several bilateral meetings between IT experts of the BCA and Customs
administrations of neighboring countries took place to discuss technical aspects of data exchange via
electronic means.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component IV. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities

(i) Gyueshevo. The contract for widening and reconstruction was signed in September 2003, but the
construction actually started only in the spring of 2004. Because of the amount of additional works, severe
weather as well as heavy ground conditions, and the contractor's poor performance and inadequate
organization of works, the construction lagged behind schedule. Contract for works has expired and about
90% of the construction works has been completed. After the closing of the project, execution of the
remaining part of the improvements will be completed by the Ministry of Finance with funding from the
State Budget.

(ii) Vidin

    Vidin I - Ferry (1st stage) additional lane and fencing: in operation since November 2003.
    Vidin II - Ferry (2nd stage) reconstruction and modernization: in operation since December 2004.
     Vidin III - (3rd stage) Truck terminal: the contract was signed in February 2004. There have been
      delays in the execution of works, because of changes in the design and additional works. Works were
      successfully completed and the respective Certificate of Completion was signed in September 2005.

(iii) Rousse. Administration building for the Border Police was completed, including the additional works,
      in April 2004.

(iv) Kapitan Andreevo BCP. Overhaul, reconstruction and modernization: the contract was signed in
     September 2003 and was amended for additional works. Works were completed as scheduled and the
     reconstructed sub-sites are in operation since the beginning of August 2005.

(v) Kulata. Customs terminal and warehouse base: in operation since February 2004. The remaining
      works were completed in June 2004 and are in operation since August 2004.

(vi) Bourgas. Facility for Customs inspection of containers: the contract was signed in June 2004 and the



                                                     - 13 -

    works were completed in May 2005.

Technical Assistance

The technical assistance comprised consulting services for supervision of the works executed under the
project at six border crossing points. In this respect, five consultant contracts were awarded, as follows:

   Contract for "supervision of works at Rousse BCP and Vidin-Ferry, I phase" was signed in April
    2002. In October 2003 contract was amended and the supervision of additional works at Rousse as
    well as of "Vidin-Ferry, II phase - reconstruction and modernization" was assigned to the same
    consulting firm.
   Contract for "supervision of works at site: Customs office and warehouse base - Kulata" was awarded
    in the beginning of February 2003. In June 2004 amendment to the contract was signed for supervision
    of the additional works, which were executed at the site.
   One Contract with two Lots - Lot 1: "supervision of works at Kapitan Andreevo BCP" and Lot 2:
    "supervision of works at Gyueshevo BCP" was signed in October 2003. In conformity with the
    additional works assigned to contractors at both sites, contract for supervision services was amended in
    April 2005.
   The last two contracts for "supervision of works at site: Facility for customs inspection of containers -
    port Bourgas" and for "Supervision of works at site: "Customs office and truck terminal - Vidin
    customs" were signed in the beginning of June 2004. Both contracts were amended for supervision of
    the additional works awarded to the respective contractors.

Achievement of this component is moderately satisfactory.

Component V. Program and Project Implementation

This component comprised services for the regional and national implementation of the project.

Regional Implementation

The Bulgarian side actively participated in the RSC meetings involving high government officials from the
TTFSE member countries. By September 2005 nine RSC meetings have been conducted - in Skopje,
Bucharest, Sofia, Tirana, Savtat (Croatia), Belgrade, Chishinau (Moldova), Sarajevo (Bosnia and
Hertzegovina) and Milocer (Serbia and Montenegro).

In 2003, in Sofia the First Meeting of the TTFSE Steering Committee Working Group on Exchange of
Information among neighboring countries was carried out. Representatives of TTFSE Countries and
observers of Greece, Turkey, USA STAT and the Bank participated in the meeting. Under this initiative, IT
meetings of experts were conducted with the Macedonian customs administration as well with the Turkish
customs administration.

The Management of the NCA initiated meetings with management of the customs administrations of the
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey. Customs information lists are being exchanged at
the BCPs with Serbia, Macedonia, Romania and Greece.

National Implementation

The project was implemented by the MOF through the PIT, which consisted of four experts - Project



                                                      - 14 -

Manager, Procurement Specialist, Accountant and Project Assistant. They worked under the direct
leadership of the TTFSE National Coordinator.

Prior to loan effectiveness, a financial management system was established for accounting, financial reporting,
planning and budgeting and the PIT carried out the respective activities by using the FMS. An auditing consultant
acceptable to the Bank was selected and appointed to audit the TTFSE project.

During project implementation the PIT members attended training courses on project management,
procurement and disbursement under WB projects.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project had an estimated net present value of US$9.9 million compared to an estimated US$7.0 million
at appraisal, based on the methodology used during the appraisal. Traffic grew strongly at some of the
project sites with significant processing time reduction measured at pilot sites. This contributed to a higher
rate of return (over 50 percent) than originally anticipated (31 percent). It is worth noting that in line with
the overall project objective of facilitating trade, Bulgaria experienced solid trade expansion during the
project life, which is not considered directly as part of the analysis. It is likely that the estimated trade
benefit equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits used in the evaluation is an understatement of the
actual impact of improved border crossing. The new inspection facilities financed under the project led to
seized goods valued at US$300,000 to US$400,000 per annum, which are not included in the estimated
benefits.

Costs

The project costs spread over more years than expected as a result of slow disbursement, and as such the
discounted cost was less than originally anticipated. The total project cost, excluding taxes, was reduced to
US$8.7 million versus a US$10.1 million original cost estimate.

Project Benefits

The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times
at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project.

Trade and Transport Cost Reductions

The annual savings on transport costs at the Bulgarian border crossings and the inland terminals under the
project are estimated at US$5.6 million in 2006 versus US$5.3 million at appraisal. Delays at pilot border
crossings and the pilot inland terminal have been substantially reduced as shown by Key Performance
Indicators in Annex 1. At other locations, monthly measurements were not available and were replaced by
recent measurements. Those indicate a strong improvement in processing capacity, with major sites like
Kapitan Andreevo increasing their hourly throughput capacity by 30 percent after project investments took
place. It is estimated that without these targeted interventions, limited progress would have been made
regarding processing time, at least up to 2005. Investments in new terminals enabled Customs to avoid
annual commercial terminal fees of over US$110,000 annually. The daily unit costs used in the original
economic evaluation (US$250 per day) was too low. Further review led to a regional value estimated at a
minimum of US$300, as indicated in the 2004 TTFSE Progress Report. Some countries of Southeast
Europe have daily rate closer to US$350 a day. The Bulgarian Road Transport Association, AEBTRI,
confirmed that for Bulgaria an estimate of US$300 would be more appropriate, since the Bulgarian



                                                      - 15 -

trucking industry is very cost competitive.




                                              - 16 -

Economic Impact of Increased Trade

The links between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and Customs revenue collection clearly exist but is
difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of other factors influencing the macro-economic development
and trade of the TTFSE countries. Company competitiveness, in particular their ability to deliver reliably
their inputs in international supply chain, depends nonetheless on their capacity to assess border transaction
cost (direct and time cost) with a fair degree of certainty. Since 1999, Bulgaria, and other countries
involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed very strong growth of their trade volumes. In Bulgaria, trade
increased from US$8.8 billion (1999) to US$24.2 billion (2004), with export more than doubling to reach
US$14.3 billion, while imports grew to US$9.9 billion. In the meantime, Customs collected revenues
increased from US$1.2 billion to US$2.6 billion, despite reductions in tariff rates, illustrating their ability
to better capture legitimate trade.

For the purpose of the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of additional
transport benefits (or about US$1 million per annum from 2005) linked to increased trade was added, as
per the approach used during appraisal. The 20 percent coefficient is based on research (Venables)
available at time of appraisal and considered appropriate by peer reviewers. Recent research in this field
(Trading on Time - January 26, 2006 - WB) indicates that, on average, one day of delay reduces trade by
at least 1 percent. Considering Bulgarian trade of US$24.2 billion, a reduction of one day could translate
into U$242 million of additional trade. Considering the significant reduction in border crossing and
clearance time, the consequent trade increase and the trade gain economic benefit linked to shorter time and
improved market access are likely to have been significant, albeit difficult to quantify. Accordingly, the
ICR economic evaluation retained the conservative appraisal assumption instead.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The fiscal impact of the project is considered positive, as a result of continuous performance monitoring
and new infrastructure at selected sites. The Customs administration increased their collections by US$1.4
billion between 2001 and 2004 due to trade growth and a large program of activities, including but not
limited to TTFSE. The overall efficiency indicators (See Development Indicators) also underline significant
progress in the cost effectiveness of Customs, making the Bulgarian one of the most cost efficient in the
region (only 1 percent of revenue collected).

Since the Customs administration is not a revenue earning entity, no Financial Rate of Return was
calculated. Part of the increase in revenue collection can be associated to the enhanced processing by
Customs. The calculation of direct fiscal impact was however not possible since many factors played a role
(trade increase, reduction in tariffs, free trade agreements) and attribution of impact would be highly
subjective.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The project focused on procedural changes at the border, and the trade facilitation role of
Customs. It created awareness of the importance of cross-border cooperation among neighboring countries.
The project was also instrumental in improving dialogue among Customs administrations within the region.
For example, since the first RSC of the TTFSE program was held in February 2000 in Skopje (Macedonia),
seven other RSC meetings have taken place on a regular basis before the project closure, with an average of two
per year (at the beginning two per year, lately one per year).

The project facilitated the implementation of the new Customs Code, adoption of simplified and standard Customs
and border inspection procedures, such as risk analysis and selectivity procedures (use of ModSel), and
introduction of green channel. Customs staff received training in BICIS and on using modern equipment, with new
procedures and new systems which were tested during the life of the project.



                                                        - 17 -

Monitoring the performance of the Customs administration using key performance indicators has led to
substantial institutional development impact. The project was also instrumental in creating local project
teams, which were semi-informal structures with representatives of each administration working at
border/customs sites (Customs, Veterinary, Police, Phyto-sanitary, and road taxes). It also provided
technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international transport participants through
BULPRO. BULPRO is a consultative committee including representatives of the private sector and from
all main ministries/agencies involved with trade and border crossings in Bulgaria, under the chairmanship
of the Chamber of Commerce. The committee aims to facilitate trade, transport and their related procedures
in a coordinated fashion as per the recommendation of the UNCEFACT on public-private dialogue. This
type of committee is an important partner of the World Bank in the implementation of the TTFSE program.

Finally, the three-year Users' Survey comparative results, published on the TTFSE regional website,
provided a diagnostic of the overall Customs environment. The survey covered five main issues: (i)
Customs legislation; (ii) Communications; (iii) Customs procedures; (iv) Personnel; and (v) Logistics from
the users' perspective in a transparent manner, thus contributing to a substantial improvement of the
dialogue between Customs and its clients.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A. Positive Factors

(i) The vision of becoming a member of the EU on the part of all the TTFSE countries was a major
incentive, significantly motivating the ownership of, and the high level of commitment to the project from
the Government.

(ii) The preparation of the TTFSE Program was preceded by the Southeast Europe Cooperation
Initiative (SECI) sponsored by the USA and the Stability Pact. The TTFSE was designed to mesh with
co-financing from the USA under SECI and seen as the first regional program under the Stability Pact. This
gave the projects under the program high credibility and visibility.

(iii) Excellent donor coordination among the Bank, the EU, and the US Government and their speaking
with one voice had a positive impact on the project. Collaborative mechanisms were created in both
Washington D.C., and the field, and recurrent missions visited Brussels for consultation.

(iv) The regional approach of the TTFSE Program, including the creation of RSC where the
performance of individual projects could be compared with the performance of neighboring countries and
the sharing of experience and lessons learned created peer pressure among the participating countries,
which in turn generated a competitive spirit and motivated them to perform better.

(v) Strengthening the role of the private sector, especially with the emergency of PRO-Committees
under SECI, and the increased professionalism of operators through training, certification, and the website
under the project provided the beginning of a private sector watchdog, function monitoring government
performance and breaking down the resistance to data sharing in the sector.




                                                     - 18 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A. Positive Factors

(i) High Ownership from MOF. The Deputy Minister of Finance was the National Coordinator, and
responsible for both the customs and taxes. The high level of commitment from him and the ownership from
MOF ensured that the project received good support from BCA. The National Coordinator also performed
coordination on a high inter-institutional level, whenever required.

(ii) High Degree of Cooperation from Some Agencies. The project benefited from a high level of
cooperation from various Directorates of the MOF, such as: the Directorate responsible for capital
investments of the agencies subordinated to the MOF, the Accounting Department, the "External Finances"
Directorate, the "State Debt" Directorate, and the "State expenditure" Directorate. The PIT also worked in
close cooperation with various Ministries, including the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport, and
the Ministry of Regional Development.

B. Negative Factors

(i) Frequent Change of Director of Customs in the Early Stage of the Project. There were three
Director of Customs from November 2000 to February 2002, which adversely affected the pace of
implementation. Each new director had to be reacquainted with the project, its design, and its covenants,
before realizing the commitments undertaken by the previous management. Thereafter, however, the new
Director General appointed in February 2003 remained in the post through the end of the project, which
contributed significantly for stability and continuity in project implementation.

(ii) Change of National Coordinator. After the election in the spring 2001, the National Coordinator was
replaced and the MOF was completely reorganized, a process during which activities were slowed down.
The reorganization ended in October 2001. As part of the process, the unit where the PIT was integrated in
the MOF was disbanded.

(iii) The Vidin-Calafat Grant experienced considerable delays and was extended for six months. The
initial delay caused by the time needed for ratification of the grant agreement by Parliament could not be
recovered by its original closing date. The MOF subsequently set up a "Crisis Management Team" (CMT),
which coordinated work and input of all agencies involved. Even though the CMT accelerated the
procurement activities, the time lost could not be recovered. As a result, the Grant Closing Date was
extended to June 30, 2004. The full amount allocated to the Bulgarian component of the grant was
successfully utilized.

C. Lessons Learned

(i) The delays in the construction works can be attributed to a great extend to the need to ensure proper
interagency coordination. During the project implementation the Government established a mechanism for
coordination through a number of expert groups. However this didn't result in substantial reduction in
coordination time as the representatives in these groups had to consult with the senior management within
their agencies. At later stages of project implementation the Government established a high level
inter-ministerial working group on border crossing issues which successfully addressed this problem.




                                                      - 19 -

(ii) In addition to the need to the need for interagency coordination, local administrative procedures for
design approval and obtaining permission for use of the newly constructed facilities took more time than
planned at the beginning of the project. As result the closing date was first extended for 12 months since the
civil works for the Vidin phase II and III, as well as for Kapitan Andreevo, Gyueshevo and Bourgas border
crossings could not be completed before the original closing date of December 31, 2003. The second
extension was for nine months because of the delay in the in the implementation of civil works contracts for
Gyueshevo and Vidin III.

(iii) The implementation of the project increased the capacity of the border administrations to handle
complex projects at both national and central level. Regular interaction with US funded consultants helped
in this process by bringing new ideas and practical experience.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
See Section 5.2

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total final cost of the project was US$12.66 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$12.5
million. The difference is mainly due to benefit on the exchange rate between SDR and US$. The Bank
financed US$8.41 million (66.4%); the Government contributed US$4.25 million equivalent in local costs
(33.6%). The US Government financed a major technical assistance component under the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as likely for the following reasons:

Considering that Bulgaria is keen to become a member of the EU by 2007, it is highly likely that the
Government will take special efforts to sustain the achievements of the project for the smooth integration
with the EU. In addition, because of the wide publicity given on the results achieved, and the availability of
public information, the public is well aware of the recent developments and as a result, it will be difficult
for the Government to backtrack. The EU presence in support to the public administration and training will
continue under the bilateral border cooperation projects.

BCA has improved its level of performance, in terms of reducing border crossing and clearance time (and
this is an irreversible event); increased its revenues because of better performance, implementation of the
reforms, reduction of smuggling, and especially greater awareness of the trade community and Customs
staff on the benefits of fair and transparent business activity. For example, the implementation of BICIS is
expected to streamline the procedures and improve the performance of Customs staff. In addition, the
following factors would also strengthen the sustainability in Customs: (i) the project goals are now
incorporated into Customs objectives as part of its annual plan; (ii) key staff at pilot sites is supportive of
the program reforms, and capable of moving forward with support from upper management; and (iii) strong
commitment from MOF to the program will result in continued pressure on Customs to continue expansion
of program concepts.

The monitoring approach using key indicators developed under the TTFSE will be continued till the end of
2006, as the Customs management is determined to follow-up on performance monitoring.

The MOF has already initiated activities for the preparation of the second regional Trade and Transport
Facilitation Program, agreeing with its extended objectives for integrated border management and increasing the
role of border agencies.



                                                      - 20 -

The TTFSE regional website is likely to continue, and several of the PRO committees underlined their
intention to commercialize the site to facilitate its sustainability. The updating of the site will continue.
Likewise, the TF Distance Learning Program will be continued beyond the project life.

BCA has committed and will continue to commit in the future appropriate funding (operation and
maintenance) to maintain the Customs facilities and Customs terminals at border crossing points, improved
under the project.

However, in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of the project, continuation of Customs reform,
continuation of cooperation among border agencies, communication with trade community, and
enhancement of the role of BULPRO Committee are very important.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory, especially in view of the setting of the project within a regional program. The identification
process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the region's trade and transport
sectors and then sought to match these with the specific needs and interest of the GOB and the evolving
private sector. The identification and preparatory phase, however, took longer than planned because the
Bank team in charge of the TTFSE's overall program changed in the summer of 1999.

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and Government's development priorities. The Bank
considered the adequacy of the project's design and technical, economic, institutional aspects, procurement
and financial management. Project design also took into account efforts with Customs reforms elsewhere
(e.g. crucial importance of software aspects), and was also built on similar projects which were undertaken
in parallel in six neighboring countries. In addition, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
Consultation with and participation of major stakeholders was a key strength of the project. Various public
institutions in Bulgaria as well the business community were consulted during preparation and were closely
involved in project implementation arrangements. In addition close collaboration and cooperation with
neighboring countries and the EU was another key feature of the project.

The extensive stakeholder consultations and participatory approach used by the team were productive,
initiating a process of ownership that proved useful at the implementation stage, and introducing elements
for gradual incorporation into the work culture of BCA.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. A Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out in October 2002 by a QAG panel of
reviewers for the project. The QAG panel noted that it "found supervision of this project to be very good,
with many elements of Best Practice, and therefore rated it Highly Satisfactory. Focus on Development
Effectiveness and Supervision Inputs and Processes were rated Highly Satisfactory, based on the clear
strategic focus and careful planning of work across the eight countries involved in the overall TTFSE
program. Another Highly Satisfactory element of this supervision effort was the careful attention paid to



                                                      - 21 -

and effective use of Monitoring and Evaluation as a tool for management, oversight, and public awareness.
All other aspects were rated Satisfactory".

The ICR considers the Bank's performance during the implementation of the project as satisfactory. The
supervision of the project was quite intensive and used the following instruments: (i) regular interactions
between Task Team Leader and PIT to both prepare and follow up missions; (ii) formal supervision
missions on average twice every fiscal year; (iii) monthly report from US Team; (iv) PIT quarterly progress
reports; (v) meeting with the National Coordinator and PIT Manager at Regional Steering Committee
meetings     (twice    a   year);   (vi)   regular  meetings   from     team   with    UNCEFACT/Stability
PACT/WCO/UNCTAD/UNECE; (vii) quarterly participation in regional meetings of public private
committees for trade and transport facilitation representing all TTFSE countries; (viii) co-chairing of the
Customs Donors' meetings in Sofia; (ix) monthly conference call with broad US team to keep track of
progress; and (x) feedback from IMF peer reviewer as warranted.

In addition to these regular efforts, the team made very frequent presentations on the project to different
audiences, including the Bank's internal thematic group, receiving in return useful feedback.

Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. The Bank's relationship with the client was cordial and productive. Review teams included
specialists in transport, trade facilitation, Customs, environment, financial management, and procurement.
External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components. Project implementation progress
was adequately reported, and implementation problems were identified early and addressed proactively.
Performance ratings given in the Project Status Reports (PSRs) were realistic, and sufficient attention was
paid to the project's likely development impact.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of
design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the PIT
worked in full cooperation with the Bank's project team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government implementation performance was satisfactory. While the project focused on
the role of Customs as the main agency responsible for the control process of goods entering, leaving and
transiting Bulgaria, the Government understood well the importance of coordination with other border
agencies. To facilitate this process, the Deputy Minister of Finance was appointed as the National
Coordinator who participated in the regular meetings of the RSC. Since the Deputy Minister of Finance
was also in charge of BCA, the flow of information, necessary clearances, approvals and funding were
generally smooth The Government was responsive in establishing necessary regulatory framework when
needed and providing counterpart financing in time.

The implementation of civil works at border crossings was a complex task, involving various agencies
(such as the Border Police, Customs, Phyto and Veterinary Control, Road Taxes) and having to face the



                                                     - 22 -

challenge of keeping the border crossing operational and functioning. The Government facilitated good
coordination between various agencies resulting in completion of the facilities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The performance of the PIT in project implementation was satisfactory. The PIT consisted of
competent staff and it was adequately funded. It was capable of managing the project, under the supervision
of and with the support of the Deputy Minister of Finance.

Both the Project Manager and the Procurement Specialist attended the Bank's specialized procurement
training and constantly improved their knowledge and skills in Bank procedures. They cooperated well with
respective specialists and managers in the implementing agencies and ministries, and with direct
beneficiaries at the border crossing points. The continuity of the same PIT staff throughout the project
period greatly contributed to the successful and smooth implementation of the project.

Project Accounting System and Reporting. All records under the project are kept in the PAIS software,
which was customized and developed by TAMS, a Bulgarian software development company. The PIT
prepares all the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports using the more detailed Project Management
Reports (PMRs) that are generated by the PAIS software, automatically and without significant effort. The
PIT was producing these reports, in general, within 45 days after the end of each quarter.

Internal Controls. The PIT had adequate internal controls for the project, including regular reconciliation
of bank accounts, adequate segregation of duties, proper accounting policies and procedures and
reconciliation of disbursement summaries of the World Bank with project accounting records.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A. Project and Program-related Lessons

     Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-sectoral and
multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight agencies are involved, their active
participation and cooperation are essential for successful implementation and achievement of project,
objectives and also to ensure sustainability. In addition, delegation of authority to agents at the border
crossing is also essential for enabling sustainable change and promote pragmatic approaches to the
resolution of problems. A cooperative culture should be encouraged and promoted from the top down by the
management of regulatory agencies.

     The replication and scaling up of lessons learned in trade facilitation to other sites must always be
reset within the specific context of the site where the application is to take place as well as taking into
account relevant national systems impacting on trade. The application action plan needs to be prepared on a
comprehensive basis with the ownership of the various stakeholders that are involved. The economic rate of
return for such replication is considerable. In Bulgaria, this applies particularly to the border crossing
Kapitan Andreevo and Kalotina.

     Customs control will become more effective and efficient under selective procedure. This fact has
been demonstrated with the achievement of better results in detecting irregularities based on selective
procedure.



                                                   - 23 -

    Multifunctional Border Inspection Facilities. When constructing border inspection facilities, it is
best to design them as multifunctional, so that they could be used for other purposes/activities after
Bulgaria's accession to EU in 2007, when the borders with Greece and Romania are expected to become
internal EU borders.

   Comprehensive Solutions for Border/Clearance Delays. The long lines of vehicles waiting to be
processed at border crossing points are symptomatic of the need for trade facilitation. Too often
governments cite physical deficiencies as the primary cause of the delays. Although the infrastructure at
border crossing points and internal clearing houses may need to be upgraded to support trade facilitation, in
and of itself such physical investment is not sufficient to solve the problems causing the delays and
hindering trade facilitation. Constrictive regulations, policies, redundant data entry and procedures, and
nonexistent coordination of border processing lead the list of the constraints on trade that need to be
addressed in a comprehensive approach covering all processing entities at the border. These include
Customs, the Border Police, veterinary and phyto-sanitary services, the road tax administration, and
stakeholders slowing the crossing time like duty-free gas stations in Kapitan Andreevo and Kalotina or
fee-based parking facilities at Plovdiv (with little incentive to see faster processing).

   High Level Support. Building a tradition of inter-agency communication and information sharing as
well as building the mechanisms on which such communication can be based, needs a high-level
government commitment and ideally a leading person. Such a person needs to be able to direct concerns
to the highest levels of management in the ministries responsible for the agencies engaged in border control.
This implies knowledge of the national political system and the power to navigate through that system.

   Project Monitoring. While coordination issues are typically downplayed among border agencies,
monitoring provides a sound and fair basis to demonstrate issues, establish a baseline, make and
acknowledge progress, and provide an incentive to improve processing. Those monitoring instruments need
to be automated through seamless integration in existing border agency systems (such as the proposed
Single Payment Window) and preferably continuous, since significant variations in traffic occur. Feedback
mechanisms are required to report results regularly to high level decision makers and private sector
representatives, and make corresponding adjustments.

   Public-Private Dialogue. The Public-Private dialogue initiated under the project led to significant
development (over 1,000 people trained in 14 Bulgarian cities/multiple awareness raising events/frequent
national and regional discussions). The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and BULPRO were
the most active contributors. Further opportunities exist to engage private sector representatives in the
design, implementation and monitoring of the project impact, to ensure that proposed investments solve the
most critical issues businesses and SMEs are confronted with, and that the monitoring capture accurately
progress made.

   Work Culture. A central task in the reform process is the formation of a new work culture. Centrally
this means adding the facilitation dimension to the current culture of control and regulations. Senior
management in border crossing agencies need to encourage new attitudes and to be trained with the change
management skills necessary in order to promote such a new culture.

   Priority Reform Aspects. Not all aspects of trade facilitation are equally essential. Targeting and
developing early wins, in close coordination with the private sector plays a key role in generating the needed
momentum for more comprehensive modernization. In Bulgaria, this includes completing the system and



                                                       - 24 -

regulations required for electronic declaration and advance processing of declarations before vehicles
physically arrive at a border location (advance declaration submission, acceptance and processing). The
system design needs to provide clear incentives to both users and administrations of the new technology in
order to succeed.

   Readiness of Project Components. Preparation time for all civil works can be very long in Bulgaria,
following very thorough process of coordination among the relevant stakeholders. As such, component
design should be advanced significantly during project preparation, using applicable instruments such as
project preparation facilities to complete them.

B. Bank-related Lessons

   The Bank's Focus in the Future Programs. The Bank should focus not only on trade facilitation, but
also on legitimate security requirements and anti-terrorism aspects such as container security code for the
scanning of cargoes. Further, the Bank should recognize that, when the project involves several innovative
reforms, it is normal to have higher risks and higher rewards. Another area is the integrated border
management.

   Result-oriented Approach. The main characteristic of the project was that it was result oriented with
measurable indicators. This unique quality was a major factor which contributed to the success of the
project.

   Policy Dialogue. It is important to start the policy dialogue at the very beginning of the project, and to
involve all important stakeholders, especially the trade and transporters community.

   Regional Approach. With a regional approach, it is possible for a project to achieve better results than
a stand-alone project. This approach creates peer pressure among the participating countries, which in turn
generates competitive spirit and motivation amongst them to perform better.

C. Co-financing Options

   The contribution of the US as a parallel financier contributed significantly to the success of the
project. The USAID Grant was instrumental in improving public-private partnership, especially in light of
the Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance to the private sector. Likewise, US Customs
financed the permanent presence of Customs advisor in Bulgaria, to help with data collection, monitoring
indicators, and improving the risk-management system in the GDC.




                                                     - 25 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(i) Comments to the Bank's ICR

To
Boryana Gotcheva
Acting Country Manager
The World Bank, Sofia Office
INTERPRED/World Trade Center
36, Dragan Tzankov Blvd.
1057 Sofia, Bulgaria
                       Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
                                        Implementation Completion Report

Dear Mrs. Gotcheva,

        I refer to your letter from 14th of February, 2006 regarding the Implementation
Completion Report for the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project. Based
on the assessment of our performance we can say that the Project is successfully completed. In
general the ICR reflects the summarized information for the implementation of the TTFSE
Project. The ICR was thoroughly reviewed by Customs, BULPRO and MoF. Attached to this
letter is the report with the opinion of Customs Agency, which comprises their comments and
remarks. Comments and corrections made by the PIT on the ICR as a whole will be sent to the
Bank in electronic format with track changes for easy reference together with Annex 8
(Borrower's Evaluation Report) which is the part of the ICR.

        We would like to assure you that all other requirements and amendments were reflected in
the above mentioned last version of the ICR. Enclosed herein we are sending the Borrower's
Evaluation Report (BER) in hard copy as well.

        In conclusion the ICR could be finalized after considering of all above mentioned
comments and corrections.

                                               Sincerely,

                                             Georgi Kadiev
                                        Deputy Minister of Finance
                                    and TTFSE National Coordinator

(ii) Borrower's Evaluation Report
See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A



                                                 - 26 -

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team Consisted of the Following Members

1. Doncho Barbalov                  Task Team Leader
2. Sati Achath                      Consultant
3. Madhu Nair                       Consultant
4. Marie Laygo                      Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in Chronological Order

1. Gerald Ollivier
2. Doncho Barbalov

C. Persons Interviewed for the Preparation of the ICR

1. Oscar de Bruyn Kops              Country Manager
2. Gerald Ollivier                  Former Task Team Leader and Transport Specialist
3. Nedialka Cholakova               TTFSE-PIT Project Manager
4. Petia Vaskova                    TTFSE-PIT Procurment Specialist
5. Albena Purcheva                  TTFSE-PIT Accountant
6. Dilyana Slavova                  Head, International Organization Dept.
                                    Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce & Industry
7. Nina Stoyanova                   State Expert, BCA

D. Footnotes

1. The EBRD-World Bank Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS) is a joint
initiative of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank. The BEEPS has
been carried out in three rounds in 1999, 2002, and 2005 and covers virtually all of the countries of Central
and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, as well as Turkey. (It has not been possible to implement
this survey in Turkmenistan.). The BEEPS covers a broad range of issues about the business environment.

2.   www.gfp-dli.org: Global Facilitation Partnership for Transportation and Trade-Distance Learning
Initiative.

3. BULPRO is a consultative committee including representatives of the private sector and from all main
ministries/agencies involved with trade and border crossings in Bulgaria, under the chairmanship of the
Chamber of Commerce. The committee aims at facilitating trade, transport and their related procedures in a
coordinated fashion as per the recommendation of the UNCEFACT on public-private dialogue. This type
of committee is an important partner of the World Bank in the implementation of the TTFSE program.

4. The survey covered five main issues, in dynamic: (i) Customs legislation; (ii) Communication; (iii)
Customs procedures; (iv) Personnel; and (v) Logistics.

5. All equivalent amounts in US$ are estimated based on Exchange Rate 1 EUR = 1.20 US$ as of 30
September 2005 (Loan Closing Date), WB Client Connection.




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Revenue collected/customs staff ('000 DEM) 403                              667
Total BCA Cost/Revenue collected (%)        <1.5                            0.75
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)              <0.7                            0.57
Trade Volume/Number of staff                1,160                           5826
(US$000/staff)
Annual number of declarations/customs staff 600                             720
Value of recorded imports (US$million)      6,200                           14338
Value of recorded exports (US$million)      5,400                           9865


Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
(Plovdiv) - Import Clearance Time (min)     40                              62.5
(Plovdiv) - Physical Examination (%)        5                               3.9
(Plovdiv) - Trucks cleared in less than 15  40                              2.9
min. (%)
(Plovdiv) - Irregularities/Number of        15                              0
Examinations (%)
(Rousse) - Truck Examination (%)            5                               0.2
(Rousse) - Irregularities/Number of         40                              0
Examinations (%)
(Rousse) - Average Border Exit Time (min)   20                              15.4
(Rousse) - Average Border Entry Time (min) 20                               28.4
(Gyueshevo) - Truck Examination (%)         5                               10.95
(Gyueshevo) - Irregularities/Number of      40                              15.6
Examinations (%)
(Gyueshevo) - Average Border Exit Time      20                              28.5
(min)
(Gyueshevo) - Average Border Entry Time     20                              22.5
(min)

1End of project




                                                         - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Part A: Institutional Reform of Customs Procedures           0.90
Part B: Trade Facilitation Development                       0.40
Part C: Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System      0.10            0.10             100
Part D: Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities            8.90          12.12            143.8
Part E: Program and Project Implementation                   0.60            0.44           123.3

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.90          12.66
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.80
                          Total Project Costs               12.70          12.66
                   Total Financing Required                 12.70          12.66


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            9.90            0.00         0.00         0.00          9.90
                                    (6.40)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (6.40)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.90         1.30          2.20
Consultant                          (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.70)         (0.00)       (0.70)
Services&Equipment
4. Training                         0.00            0.00         0.00         0.20          0.20
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.30         0.00          0.30
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.20)
   Total                            9.90            0.00         1.20         1.50         12.60
                                    (6.40)         (0.00)      (0.90)         (0.00)       (7.30)




                                                - 29 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                11.33              0.35              0.00             0.00             11.68
                                          (7.37)             (0.22)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (7.59)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.68             0.00              0.68
   Consultant                             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.62)            (0.00)           (0.62)
   Services&Equipment
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.30             0.00              0.30
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                11.33              0.35              0.98             0.00             12.66
                                          (7.37)             (0.22)            (0.82)            (0.00)           (8.41)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Part A: Institutional                                    0.90                                                               0.0
Reform of Customs
Procedures
Part B: Trade Facilitation                               0.40                                                               0.0
Development
Part C: Bulgarian              0.10                                  0.08         0.02      83.00       80.0
Integrated Customs
Information System
Part D: Improvement of         6.90         3.60                     8.00         4.40      122.00      115.9    122.2
Border Crossing Facilities
Part E: Program and            0.50                      0.10        0.33         0.41       0.00       66.0                0.0
Project Implementation




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Assumptions and Background Data

1. Project Costs

For donor funded project costs, the original estimates were kept, but spread over the life of the project.

Other costs (excluding taxes) provided by PIU

Cost

Cost table by component and by year excluding taxes

(Millions of US$)
 FY                                                          2001        2002       2003          2004     2005
 Costs
 Investment Costs
                          With the Project
                          Customs Administration             NBF         NBF        NBF           NBF      NBF
                          Institutional Reform
                          Trade Facilitation                 NBF         NBF        NBF           NBF      NBF
                          Development
                          Improvement of Bulgaria             0.0         0.0       0.004         0.08     0.0
                          Integrated Customs
                          Information System
                          Improvement of Border               0.0        0.65       1.37          3.16     1.72
                          Crossing Facilities
                          Program and Project                0.15        0.03       0.05          0.05     0.05
                          Implementation
                          Total With the Project             0.15        0.68       1.424         3.29     1.77

"amount of Loan proceeds spent for improvements of border crossing facilities by the end of the project is
about EUR 6,296,000, which is more than the initially allocated loan proceeds amounting to EUR
6,120,000."

                                     Location                                        Put into Operation
 1.Kapitan Andreevo BCP
 1.1. Buildings (No12 and No13) for TIR documents processing and Building     July 2004
 (No15) for documents processing of buses and motor cars
 1.2. Canopies No9, 10, 11 and 11a                                            May 2005
 1.3. New metal canopy and booths for passport and visa control (11b)         July 2005
 1.4. Detailed Customs Inspection Facility for cars and buses (Building No39) September 2005
 2. Vidin
 2.1. Vidin-Ferry, I phase                                                    November 2003
 2.2. Vidin-Ferry, II phase                                                   December 2004
 2.3. Customs Office and Truck Terminal                                       September 2005
 3. Kulata - Customs Terminal and Warehouse Base                              February 2004
 Additional - "Caf & Lunch Edifice and Chilling Chamber"                     June 2004
 4. Bourgas - Facility for Customs Inspection of Containers                   June 2005




                                                       - 31 -

2. Key Parameters

After review of the parameters, the time value of a regional truck was adjusted to 300$ which reflects the
regional level and was confirmed by the road transport association, AEBTRI, as being the right level.

               Trade Related Benefits/Transport Savings                             20%
               Time Value (US$/day)                                                 250
               Traffic Growth                                                        3%

3. Traffic and Waiting Time

Assumption Made

Total waiting time at KA is about 3 hours, including queuing.
90% of rental fees avoided are a benefit for customs (since Customs can use its own facility instead-a 10%
annual cost is considered).
Initial Kulata waiting time would have been 3 hours for regular examination (like Plovdiv).
No benefits calculated for Burgas since pure inspection purpose and too early to note significant detections.
TA at Vidin led to a 12 minutes reduction in 2003.
Time value adjusted to 300 based on regional data and inputs from AEBTRI.
Do nothing scenario would have led to no progress until 2005.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/28/1999                6    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST/ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MIS & TELECOMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TTF
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                             ENGINEER (1)

 Supervision

              10/05/2000                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1)
              10/05/2000                1    LEAD SPECIALIST (1)              S               S
              03/02/2001                3    TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR          S               S
                                             CUSTOMS SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              11/16/2001                3    TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR          U               S
                                             CUSTOMS SPECIA. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              06/05/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S
                                             CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              02/15/2003                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1)
              06/14/2003                2     TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              12/09/2003                5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/08/2004                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST(1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              05/30/2005                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST(1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1)




                                              - 33 -

ICR
      10/06    2  TEAM LEADER (1);
                 CONSULTANT (1)




                 - 34 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Supervision                                   NA*                         342.61
  ICR                                            NA                          10.50
  Total                                          NA                         353.11
* SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 28, 2006.

5. Project Appraisal Document for Bulgaria Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
   dated May 3, 2000 (Report No: 20036-BUL).




                                               - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

INTRODUCTION

In the 90's, the Southeast European economies, including the Bulgarian economy, faced unexpected
difficulties and new challenges in the process of their development after the start of the democratic reforms.
Many new countries emerged in the region as a result of the collapse of the socialist block. This put trade
into a difficult situation. Commercial traffic became complicated due to the increased bureaucracy when
crossing more and new borders. Customs and other border procedures were complex and differed between
countries and sometimes even between checkpoints in one and the same country. The spread of organized
crime and its manipulation of corrupt practices were among the strongest impediments to the development
of Southeast Europe. Regional instability in the past years undermined effective law enforcement
throughout the region and raised considerably the cost of regional trade. Further, corruption and organized
crime destroyed fair competition and the potential for free private initiative on a regional scale.

On the other hand, the perspective for accession to the European Union (EU) has imposed clear tasks to the
countries within the region in the view of harmonizing their legislation and modernizing their Customs
administrations.

The integration of the East European market with the Community market is the greatest challenge to EU
enlargement with Central and East European countries. This integration is expected to lead to trade
expansion between operators within the integrated market, as well as with the rest of the world, due to the
increased economic dynamism of an enlarged EU. The accession of Bulgaria to the higher degree of market
integrity, namely the EU Internal market, will require from the Bulgarian Customs administration to protect
and oversee part of EU external frontiers.

The harmonization of the Bulgarian Customs legislation with acquis communitaire in Customs matters and
Customs practices of EU member-states, including development of relevant infrastructure, is a prerequisite
for future functions of EU trade regime application and control over EU external borders.

During the past period, the Southeast European countries became aware of the necessity to join their efforts
for resolving the problems they faced on the way to the EU, through regional cooperation.

In late 1998 six countries of Southeast Europe, supported by the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
(SECI), requested the World Bank support in designing a regional program of trade and transport
facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE).

The Bank adopted the regional approach in designing a program that would reduce transport costs, fight
corruption, and help Customs administrations gradually harmonize their procedures with EU standards.
The need for institutional reforms, procedural simplification, information technology improvement, border
crossing facility upgrading and support to the regional cooperation emerged as the core components of the
Regional Program.

In February 2000, the aforesaid six countries, namely Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, FYR
Macedonia, Croatia and Romania, signed in Skopje a Memorandum of Understanding. The Memorandum
defined the Program's regional focus and aimed at strengthening the mutual cooperation between the
countries towards fostering trade in Southeast Europe through a set of concerted steps under the Trade and
Transport Facilitation Regional Program. To assist such collaboration and to facilitate exchange of



                                                    - 39 -

information, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) was established with representation of all TTFSE
countries. At a later stage Serbia and Montenegro and Moldova joined the Memorandum as well.

The Bulgaria TTFSE Project formed part of the Regional Program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in
Southeast Europe. The Project was related especially to the following priority objectives outlined in the
Government's strategy document "Bulgaria 2001: Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria
- 1997-2001": (i) Promoting Structural Reform and Private Sector Development: the highest support was
given to support for policy reforms to further liberalize trade, eliminate direct government participation in
the sector, and establish the prerequisites for efficiency in markets. and (ii) Strengthening and Rationalizing
the Role of the State: the Bank supported, as a key criterion for EU accession, the strengthening of public
administration, the economic policy reforms, including delicensing, regulatory and tax simplification, and
competitive privatization, especially to reduce the opportunities for corruption.

The Project was supposed to:

    support the institutional development of the Bulgarian Customs Administration (BCA) that would
     facilitate legitimate trade and transit flows, better serve to trade activities by reducing non-tariff
     transport costs, decreasing the price of imported goods and improving the competitiveness of Bulgarian
     products, thereby promoting private sector growth and creation of new jobs in the country;
    support the BCA in strengthening its tax collection capacity and implementing several international
     conventions in the environmental field, while reinforcing ongoing efforts against corruption;
    improve the border crossing infrastructure allowing a cost-efficient cross-border system with positive
     results for road transport;
    ensure better cooperation with other national border agencies, as well as with other Customs services,
     given the regional character of the project; and
    ensure better coordination between the five border agencies that exercise border control functions in
     Bulgaria: Border Police, Customs, Phyto-Sanitary Control, Veterinary Control and Road Taxes and
     Permits Control, as well as assist each border control agency in its efforts to harmonize its own
     procedures.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Project Development Objectives

The Bulgaria TTFSE Project, as part of the Regional TTFSE Program, seeks two development objectives:

(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings

These development objectives are achieved by: (i) supporting Customs reform; (ii) strengthening the
mechanisms of interaction between border control agencies and trading community; (iii) disseminating
information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure at selected border
crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new Customs procedures, information
technology, human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure and cooperation mechanism
for agencies at border crossings. The financing of infrastructure was dependent upon the successful
implementation of the reforms, including the application of targeting and selectivity techniques.




                                                      - 40 -

2. Project Components and Subcomponents (see Attachment 1 for details)

The Bulgaria TTFSE Project consists of the following five components:

(i) Customs Administration Institutional Reform;
(ii) Trade Facilitation Development;
(iii) Improvement of Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System (BICIS);
(iv) Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities; and
(v) Program and Project Implementation

3. Financing Plan (including taxes in US$ million)

(The amounts are shown as defined in the PAD - Exchange rate effective April 7, 2000)

             Source                     Local                  Foreign                     Total
  IBRD                                    0.0                     7.4                        7.4
  Government of Bulgaria                  3.6                     0.0                         3.6
  USA                                     0.0                     1.5                        1.5
  Total                                   3.6                     8.9                       12.5

4. Legal Agreements and Subsequent Amendments

The Loan Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) for the loan 4553 BUL amounting to 7,73 million Euro was signed on June 21, 2000
and was ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on October 25, 2000. The TTFSE
Loan Agreement became effective on November 29, 2000.

In the course of the TTFSE Project implementation three amendments to the Loan Agreement have been
made at the request of the Borrower and with the approval of the World Bank.

The first Amendmentto the Loan Agreement was for a 12 months' extension of the Loan Closing Date till
December 31, 2004. The extension was requested by the Borrower on July 11, 2003, following the
conclusions of the sixth World Bank supervision mission on the Bulgaria TTFSE Project. As agreed during
the Mission, the requested extension was needed to allow successful completion of the project activities in
terms of: (i) further progress in the BCA institutional reform; (ii) improved performance of the BCA and
other border agencies; (iii) sustainable increase of collected revenues; (iv) positive effects on private trade
community and freight forwarders and good regional cooperation; and (v) entire completion of the
construction works for the infrastructure improvements envisaged under the Project. The World Bank
response was issued on July 23, 2003 and thus the date December 31, 2004 was established as the later
date for the purposes of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.

From December 8 to 9, 2003, a World Bank mission visited Bulgaria for the seventh supervision mission of
the TTFSE Project for the country. Main conclusion of the Mission was that the Project continued to make
good progress and all components would be implemented as foreseen. On the other hand, it was considered
that some savings in the Loan proceeds were expected and the latter could be used for additional activities,
consistent with the Project objectives. Based on the agreement reached during the mission, on February 24,
2004 the Ministry of Finance submitted to the World Bank a request for reallocation of Loan savings. A
rationale attached to the request described the proposed usage of Loan savings, in particular for: (i)



                                                     - 41 -

"Development of Advanced Submission of Customs Declarations Module to the Bulgarian Integrated
Customs Information System (BICIS)" and (ii) execution of additional construction works at Kapitan
Andreevo border crossing point. On March 29, 2004 the World Bank sent to the Borrower its written
approval to the proposed reallocation being the second Amendment to the Loan Agreement. Schedule 1
"Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan" was revised as follows:


                                 Amount of the Loan
                                        Allocated              Amended Amount of          % of Expenditures
         Category                (Expressed in Euro)*          the Loan Allocated           to be Financed
 (1) Works                              6,120,000                    6,200,000           65%
                                    (US$7,344,000)                (US$7,440,000)
 (2) Consultants' services              730,000                       730,000            100%
 and training                        (US$876,000)                  (US$876,000)
 (3) Incremental                        130,000                       140,000            90% until June 30,
 Operating Cost                       (US$156,000)                 (US$168,000)          2001; 70% thereafter
 (4) Fee                                  77,300                       77,300            Amount due under
                                       (US$92,760)                  (US$92,760)          Section 2.04 of the
                                                                                         Loan Agreement
 (5) Unallocated                        672,700                       582,700
                                     (US$807,240)                  (US$699,240)
 TOTAL                                  7,730,000                    7,730,000
                                    (US$9,276,000)                (US$9,276,000)

*All equivalent amounts in US$ are estimated based on Exchange Rate 1 EUR = 1.20 US$ as of 30 September 2005 (Loan
Closing Date), WB Client Connection)


The third Amendment to the Loan Agreement comprised extension of the Loan Closing Date from
December 31, 2004 to September 30, 2005 and was made at the Borrower's written request, sent to the
World Bank on November 25, 2004. The request was based on the conclusions of the World Bank audit of
TTFSE Project, held within the Bulgaria Limited Portfolio Review, as well as on the agreement reached
between the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance on the good implementation progress and development
impact under the Project. The requested nine-month extension was to provide for the needed time for
completion of the last three construction sites and thus a full utilization of the sizeable amounts of the Loan
proceeds committed under the respective signed contracts for works. On December 17, 2004, after
considering the request, the World Bank issued a letter in favor of the above extension and the Borrower
was notified that September 30, 2005 had been established as the later date for the purposes of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement.

With a letter, dated August 22, 2005, the World Bank advised the Borrower that a four-month period had
been granted for further disbursements from the TTFSE Loan. In accordance with the current practice of
the World Bank the above disbursements were designated only for withdrawal applications received by the
World Bank by close of business on January 31, 2006 and in respect of eligible expenditures made before
the Loan Closing Date, September 30, 2005.




                                                       - 42 -

PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION

1. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

1.1. Institutional Involvement

National Coordinator

The Deputy Minister of Finance responsible for the Customs field was assigned for the National Project
Coordinator. The National Coordinator is member of the Inter-ministerial Committee on the Border
Crossing Control Issues. The TTFSE PIT Manager is member of the working group established to support
its work. The National Coordinator ensures backing to the TTFSE PIT in the Project implementation and
coordination at a high government level, whenever required.

TTFSE Project Implementation Team

The Project is implemented by the Ministry of Finance through a team (PIT) comprising of four experts:
Project Manager, Procurement Specialist, Accountant and Project Assistant. The PIT works in close
cooperation with the directorates of the Ministry of Finance, such as: the Directorate responsible for capital
investments of the agencies subordinated to the MoF, the Accounting Department, the External Finance
Directorate, the Government Debt Directorate, the State Expenditure Directorate, etc. The TTFSE PIT
coordinates the Project components implementation among other involved ministries and border agencies.

Inter-institutional Cooperation

With the assistance of the Inter-ministerial Committee on the Border Crossing Control Issues, the Project
implementation has been smoothed in a great extent. The aforesaid Committee consists of deputy ministers
of respective ministries, exercising border control functions as well as regional governors. The Committee
work is assisted by the expert working group, comprising all border agencies representatives. Issues,
regarding border crossing points and the border control are subject to initial consideration at an expert level
within the working group and are subsequently approved at sessions of the Inter-ministerial Committee.

The establishment of local project teams (LPT) at the selected pilot sites that evaluate operations to identify
problem areas and then develop ways to reduce or eliminate them has been also assessed as an innovative
tool towards TTFSE Project objectives.

1.2. Regional Implementation

Regional Steering Committee

Bulgaria has actively participated in the meetings of the TTFSE Regional Steering Committee (RSC) that
involves high-level government officials from the TTFSE member countries. By September 2005, nine RSC
meetings have been conducted - in Skopje, Bucharest, Sofia, Tirana, Cavtat (Croatia), Belgrade, Chisinau
(Moldova), Sarajevo (Bosnia and Herzegovina) and Milocer (Serbia and Montenegro).

The first meeting of the TTFSE RSC Working Group on exchange of information between neighboring
countries was held in May 2003, in Sofia. Representatives of TTFSE countries and observers from Greece,
Turkey, USA STAT and the World Bank attended the sessions. Under this initiative, subsequent meetings
of IT experts were conducted between the Bulgarian Customs and its Macedonian and Turkish
counterparts.


                                                    - 43 -

Improvement of the Cooperation with Customs Administrations from the Region of Southeast Europe

The Management of the National Customs Agency has initiated meetings with the management of Customs
administrations of Southeast European countries (Macedonia, Turkey, Serbia, Croatia, Greece and Bosnia
and Herzegovina). At these meetings the BCA has proposed to discuss the opportunity for initiating mutual
data exchange by electronic means. The latter will support the efforts of the administrations to combat
fraud, contraband and illegal drug trafficking. The Director General of the National Customs Agency took
actively part in various regional forums and conferences, including the RSC meetings.

2. Procurement Arrangements

                                    Number of
                                   Procurement
                                Packages/ Number
    Procurement/Selection          of Contracts  Disbursed Amounts
            Method                               (Expressed in Euro)
                                                                       Financed from the
                                                 Financed from the     Local Contribution
                                                    IBRD Loan                (GOB)                Total
1. International Competitive            7/8                6,327,269             3,406,414            9,733,683
Bidding (ICB)                                         (US$7,592,723)       (US$4,087,697)       (US$11,680,420)
2. Quality and Cost-Based               5/5                  309,132                61,826               370,958
Selection (QCBS)                                       (US$370,958)           (US$74,192)          (US$445,150)
3. Least-Cost Selection (LCS)           1/1                   52,221                10,444                62,665
                                                        (US$62,665)           (US$12,533)           (US$75,198)
4. Selection Based on                   1/1                   66,891                13,345                80,236
Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)                        (US$80,270)           (US$16,014)           (US$96,283)
5. Individual Consultants (IC)          1/ 4                   5,000                     0                 5,000
                                                         (US$6,000)                    (0)           (US$6,000)
6. Other:
FMS establishment and other                                  131,511                58,469               189,980
costs                                                  (US$157,813)            (US$70,163)         (US$227,976)

Costs associated with PIT                                     33,747                                 EUR33,747
training and other seminars and                         (US$40,496)                                 (US$40,496)
training
Total                                                     6,925,771*             3,550,498            10,476,269
                                                      (US$8,310,925)       (US$4,260,598)       (US$12,571,523)
* Front-end fee (EUR 77 300) not included.


PROJECT COSTS - USE OF FUNDS

As per the latest estimation, the actual total TTFSE Project cost amounts to EUR 10 553 570. The amount
of the disbursed Loan proceeds is EUR 7 003 071, which comprises 90.6% of the total Loan amount. The
remaining EUR 726 929 not used Loan funds form some savings at about 9.4% of the total Loan amount,
resulting mainly from: (i) difference of about EUR 263 000 between preliminary estimations of the
consulting services and their real cost as per awarded contracts for supervision services; and (ii) committed
but not fully disbursed amount for execution of works at Gyueshevo BCP due to the Contractor's
unsatisfactory performance and non-completion of part of the contracted works (about EUR 330 000).




                                                    - 44 -

1. Use of Loan Funds (in Euro million equivalents)

       Initial Loan Amount             Actual Used Amount                         Percentage
               7.730                             7.003                                90.6
            (US$9.276)                       (US$8.404)

2. Project Financing by Year (in Euro million equivalent)

   Financier        FY 2000        FY 2001           FY 2002       FY 2004        FY 2005           Total
IBRD Loan                0.126              0.56          1.19           2.74             2.38           7.0
                    (US$0.151)      (US$0.67)         (US$1.43)    (US$3.29)       (US$2.85)      (US$8.40)
Government of           0.0082              0.28          0.75           1.27             1.24         3.555
Bulgaria           (US$0.0092)      (US$0.34)         (US$0.90)    (US$1.52)       (US$1.49)      (US$4.26)
USA
Total                    0.134              0.84          1.94            4.01            3.62         10.55
                    ( US$0.161)     (US$1.01)         (US$2.33)    (US$4.81)      (US$4.35)      (US$12.67)

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

1. Implementation by Components and Subcomponents

      Component                   Subcomponent                                     Result

A. Customs
Administration
Institutional Reform
1. Monitoring and        1.1. Monitor and refine             Two border stations (Danube bridge BCP and
review of BCA            productivity indicators enabling    Gyueshevo BCP) and one inland Customs
procedures               international comparisons           office (Plovdiv CH) were designated to serve
                                                             as pilot sites for ideas to improve operations.
                                                             Pilot site objectives were to expedite the
                                                             processing and release of shipments by
                                                             introducing more efficient Customs operations
                                                             and to measure progress through the collection
                                                             and analysis of performance indicator data.
                                                             Main pilot site initiatives included: the
                                                             submission and processing of advance
                                                             information and Customs declarations;
                                                             automated risk analysis; and enhanced physical
                                                             examination facility.
                         1.2 Designated border stations      An Action Plan for replication of the
                         and inland customs stations to      following three pilot initiatives has been
                         serve as test sites for ideas to    developed:
                         improve operations
                                                             (i) the expedited procedures for delivery of
                                                             containers arriving at seaports initiative;
                                                             (ii) the acceptance of advanced
                                                             declarations at inland Customs offices



                                                    - 45 -

                                                      initiative; and

                                                      (iii) the refining the targeting and
                                                      selectivity process through uniform
                                                      reporting and analysis of physical
                                                      examination results initiative.
2. Implementation and 2.1. Inter-agency awareness and (i) liaison with environment authorities:The
training on new       training                        Ministry of Environment and Waters has
procedures                                            designated contact persons for the EMP.
                                                      The National Customs Agency has assigned an
                                                      environmental officer for liaison with
                                                      environmental authorities;

                                                      (ii) training: The compliance with EU
                                                      standards, in particular regarding the
                                                      legislation in the field of hazardous materials
                                                      and environmental protection at the border
                                                      stations, was subject of the prepared training
                                                      plan. -
                                                      Training on the CITES and Basel Conventions
                                                      provisions will also extend the Customs
                                                      officers competence on international
                                                      environmental standards and practices.

                                                      (iii) certification of acceptable practice at
                                                      border crossings: On-site inspections have
                                                      been carried out at all construction sites, and
                                                      the results from them recorded in minutes of
                                                      proceeding?, in compliance with the already
                                                      existing PIT practice.

                                                      (iv) construction: All awarded contracts
                                                      contain references to the Bulgarian laws
                                                      including safety. Environmental issues are
                                                      specifically included in the contractors' work
                                                      programs. As required by the Bulgarian
                                                      regulations related to civil works, documents
                                                      have been kept at the site until the construction
                                                      is finished. No violations of the existing
                                                      legislation have been recorded.

                                                      All Works' completion certificates (Protocol
                                                      15 according to the Bulgarian law), which
                                                      have been signed for all sites, contain
                                                      references to the environment protection in
                                                      confirmation that: (i) no damages to the
                                                      environment had been caused; and (ii) all
                                                      materials and products used were with high



                                              - 46 -

                                                         quality and were corresponding to the labor
                                                         safety requirements.

                                                         The aforesaid certificates have been signed by
                                                         a designated committee, which included
                                                         representatives of the local agencies,
                                                         responsible for the environment protection.
B. Trade Facilitation
Development
1. Strengthening of    1.1 Establish and maintain a      Regional website - elaboration and release of a
Private-Public         regional website to support the   joint information platform for users
Partnership            program and act as a focal point  (www.ttfse.org). To define and build the
                       for trade facilitation            platform, regional coordination meetings have
                                                         been repeatedly organized. The website,
                                                         regionally designated and maintained, provides
                                                         information on the requirements of many
                                                         border agencies in Southeast Europe. The
                                                         website has been upgraded now allowing the
                                                         website coordinators to view the work in
                                                         progress during development. The acceptance
                                                         tests have been successfully performed and the
                                                         website has been launched to the users and
                                                         general public.
2. Improvement of the  2.1. Expert services and training BULPRO and the National Centre for
performance of trade                                     Vocational Training (NCVT) have successfully
facilitation agents                                      completed the three-year training program.
                                                         BULPRO and NCVT have also started trade
                                                         facilitation training in the Association of
                                                         Balkan Chambers (ABC) Academy. BULPRO
                                                         has published the Guide for Crossing
                                                         Bulgarian Borders which provides for full
                                                         information on legislation and related
                                                         documents that in particular concern
                                                         passengers, traders and legal entities.
C. Improvement of
Bulgarian Integrated
Customs Information
System (BICIS)
1. Exchange program    1.1. Regional experience sharing  Working group on exchange of information has
                       program                           been established, according to
                                                         Recommendation of the National TTFSE
                                                         Coordinators, done at the sixth RSC meeting
                                                         (2002), and the follow-up of the seventh RSC
                                                         meeting (2003).

                                                         Several bilateral meetings between IT experts
                                                         of the BCA and Customs administrations of
                                                         neighboring countries took place to discuss



                                                - 47 -

                                                      technical aspects of data exchange via
                                                      electronic means.
D. Improvement of
Border Crossing
Facilities
1. Gyueshevo BCP   1.1 Administration building for    90% of the works have been completed,
                   Customs and Border Police          including the administration building, facility
                                                      building, the pedestrian and four control
                                                      booths, part of the paving, fencing and
                                                      canopies. The Ministry of Finance will
                                                      complete remaining part of the works after
                                                      closing of the Project and with state budget
                                                      funds.
                   1.2 Paving and fencing
                   1.3 Canopies
                   1.4 Control booths
                   1.5 Public facility buildings
                   1.6 Site utilities
                   1.7 Pedestrian control booth and
                   supplementary works
2. Vidin BCP       2.1 Additional lane and fencing    Additional lane for widening of the lane
                   (Vidin I phase)                    processing area at the Vidin-Ferry BCP has
                                                      been built. Works comprise construction of an
                                                      additional lane, retaining wall, site lighting,
                                                      fencing with barriers and storm drainage as
                                                      well.

                                                      Completed in November 2003.
                   2.2 New canopies and control       The second phase of the improvements at the
                   booths, reconstruction of          Vidin-Ferry BCP includes reconstruction of the
                   existing administration building,  existing administration building and its
                   site utilities (Vidin II phase)    supplemental canopies, construction of two
                                                      new canopies for entry and exit traffic as well
                                                      as of a law voltage cable network. In addition,
                                                      new control booths have been built up and
                                                      situated along the third traffic lane, a new
                                                      transformer, ramp, disinfection facility,
                                                      barriers and other site utilities have been
                                                      constructed as well.

                                                      Completed in December 2004.
                   2.3 Customs office and truck       The third phase of the improvements at Vidin
                   terminal, comprising               includes construction of a new Customs office
                   administration building, heavy     and truck terminal for the needs of the Vidin
                   vehicle detailed inspection        Customs, as follows:
                   building, parking areas, water
                   supply and drainage, electrical    Facility for detailed Customs inspection of



                                               - 48 -

                     utilities, fencing and etc. (Vidin trucks, administration building with adjoining
                     III phase)                         part for detailed Customs inspection of cars,
                                                        parking lots, site utilities and lighting, fencing,
                                                        step-down transformer and diesel generator,
                                                        waste water treatment facility, check point, etc.

                                                        Completed in mid September 2005.
3. Rousse BCP        3.1 Administration building for    Administration building for the Border Police
                     passport and visa control for the  with adjoining approach
                     needs of the Border Police
                                                        Completed in December 2003.
                     3.2 Site utilities and additional
                     works
4. Kapitan Andreevo  4.1 Canopy repairs                 The renovation and modernization of the major
BCP                                                     border station facilities consists of repair of
                                                        existing canopies and three buildings (including
                                                        painting, replacements and repairs of canopy
                                                        boards, lighting and utilities); overhaul and
                                                        reconstruction of an existing building and its
                                                        transformation into a building for detailed
                                                        Customs inspection; construction of a new
                                                        canopy with control booths, etc.

                                                        Completed in August 2005.
                     4.2 Building repairs
                     4.3 Canopy and booths
                     4.4 Warehouse reconstruction
                     4.5 Heating and electrical
                     repairs
5. Kulata BCP        5.1 Administration building        New Customs terminal and warehouse facility
                                                        has been built at the Kulata border crossing.
                                                        Works comprise reconstruction of three
                                                        existing buildings into an inspection building
                                                        and two warehouses, as well as construction of
                                                        a new administration building, parking area
                                                        and truck terminal, water supply and drainage
                                                        lines and other utilities.

                                                        The terminal was completed in February 2004.
                                                        In addition, some supplementary reconstruction
                                                        works have been carried out, and in June 2004
                                                        an existing building was reconstructed into a
                                                        Caf and lunch edifice.
                     5.2 Inspection building
                     5.3 Truck terminal parking area
                     5.4. Utilities
                     5.5. Additional - "Caf & Lunch



                                                 - 49 -

                          Edifice and Chilling Chamber"
6. Bourgas BCP            6.1 New container inspection      The construction of a new facility for detailed
                          terminal                          Customs inspection of containers on the
                                                            territory of the container terminal - port
                                                            Bourgas, comprising a main building, site
                                                            adjustment, roads and utilities was completed
                                                            in May 2005.
7. Technical assistance   7.1. Supervision of civil works   Completed
                          at Rousse and Vidin I and II
                          phase
                          7.2. Supervision of civil works   Completed
                          at Kulata BCP
                          7.3 Supervision of civil works at Completed
                          Gyueshevo and Kapitan
                          Andreevo BCPs
                          7.4 Supervision of civil works at Completed
                          Bourgas BCP
                          7.5 Supervision of civil works at Completed
                          Vidin III phase
E. Program and Project    PIT staffing, FMS                 Completed
Implementation            establishment, PIT training,
                          procurement consultant to PIT,
                          consulting services for audit

2. Achievements

The overall TTFSE Project implementation and the development objectives ratings have been satisfactory.

The process of the TTFSE Project implementation provides a good example for an inter-institutional
cooperation. The Project complex structure imposed a ceaseless coordination and cooperation with both the
five border control agencies and other ministries and institutions related to the Project objectives and
implementation. The mix of new border processing techniques, pilot site initiatives, infrastructure
improvement and modern buildings and facilities has led to the TTFSE Project positive results.

Customs Institutional Reform

Reduction of average import clearance time, border entry and exit times

The performance indicators data collected in the period 2000-2004 have revealed an average decrease of
67% for all the three pilot sites: Plovdiv 72% decrease (from 210 to 59 minutes); Rousse 67% (from 60 to
20 minutes) and Gyueshevo 30% (from 30 to 21 minutes).

Development Objectives

The Bulgarian Customs has increased the revenue collection 2.7 times in a four-year period. For 2004
revenues arrived at USD 2 615.957 million. The revenue growth for the nine months of 2005 is quite more
than the same period in 2004: almost 36% increase from US$1 807.448 million to US$2 458.854 million.




                                                    - 50 -

The number of SAD has increased 2.25 times, from 1 172 402 in 2000 to 2 636 236 in 2004.

The foreign trade volume has grown 2.14 times, from US$11 331.7 million to US$24 203.534 million.

The development objectives mark a steady increase. The indicator "Total Customs expenditures/total
Customs revenues" is the lowest one in the region having a level of 1.21% for 2000 and less than 1%
(0.99%) for 2004 and respectively 0.57% for the nine months of 2006.

Customs Business Strategy (See Attachment 2)

Replication of Pilot Initiatives

In 2003, the BCA, jointly with the STAT, developed an Action Plan for replication of three pilot initiatives.
The following Customs offices were identified for replication of the pilot site concept:

i)   Varna-East CP, Varna-West CP and Bourgas CH: for the expedited procedures for delivery of
     containers arriving at seaports initiative;
ii) Sofia CH, Plovdiv CH, Gorublyane CB, TK Evropa CB, Ilijanci CB, Varna Avto CB, Kremikovci
     CB, Suhodol CB, Rousse CB, Kyustendil CH, Obelja CB, and Blagoevgrad CH for the acceptance of
     advanced declarations at inland Customs offices initiative; and
iii) All border crossing points during the first phase and all inland Customs offices during the second phase
     of the initiative for the refining the targeting and selectivity process through uniform reporting and
     analysis of physical examination results initiative.

An upgraded version of the Action Plan for replication of the TTFSE project pilot initiatives was developed
in 2004, having in mind the extension of the TTFSE Project up to December 31, 2004. Furthermore, the
aforesaid step was preconditioned, in terms of additional measures to reflect the current needs of pilot
replication, by some practical difficulties, met during the implementation of the plan.

The objective of the seaport initiative (finalized in 2004) was to provide the trade community with the
opportunity to secure early delivery of container shipments arriving aboard vessels. The objectives of the
advanced declaration initiative and of physical examination results initiative are, respectively: to streamline
and reorder Customs procedures at inland Customs facilities, and to create an effective feedback
mechanism to permit analysis and redirection of the physical examination efforts carried out by the
Customs authorities.

BICIS Development

The implementation of the Customs information system (BICIS) Development plan is progressing well.
Currently, the functionality of BICIS provides for the automated processing of Customs documents in all
Customs offices and for all types of Customs regimes and procedures, stipulated in the Customs Act and its
Implementation regulation. Moreover, the management of all types of transit operations is automated in real
time and at national level. The system ensures the maintenance and usage of an electronic Integrated
Customs tariff. Functions for preparation of reference information and reports related to the various levels
of the administration management process are associated with BICIS.

According to the BICIS Development plan for stages 2 and 3, the following core tasks have been
accomplished during project implementation:




                                                      - 51 -

(i) introduction of a new version of BICIS 1 in all Customs offices in 2002;
(ii) putting into operation of the web-based BICIS 2.1 in all Customs offices and completion of the net
      necessary for the proper exploitation of BICIS 2.1 in 2003;
(iii) the start of the activities associated with the project "Construction of Advance Submission of Customs
      Declarations Module to BICIS", financed within the TTFSE project in 2004; and
(iv) introduction of BICIS 2.2, the Customs Authorities Decision Module, Customs Debt Module and Risk
      Analysis Module, in all Customs offices in 2005, and materialization of the BICIS amendment which
      will enable electronic lodgement of data contained in requests for permission of Customs economic
      regimes.

Trade Facilitation and Training

BULPRO has achieved sound progress in the implementation of the trade facilitation component. Trade
community training has been spread country-wide through numerous seminars and events.

Infrastructure Improvement at Border Crossing Points

The reconstruction and modernization of buildings and facilities at both the border crossing points and
inland Customs terminals started in the 90's, initially performed by the Bulgarian Customs Agency and
consequently by the Ministry of Finance.

The successful practice has continued that way in the course of the implementation of the Trade and
Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project. Six selected border crossing points have been either
built or modernized under the Bulgaria TTFSE Project:

     The facilities at the Rousse BCP (at the border with Romania) have been completed and put into
      operation;
     The modernization of the Vidin - Ferry BCP (at the border with Romania) has been completed;
     The facilities at the Kapitan Andreevo BCP (at the border with Turkey) have been completed and put
      into operation;
     New Customs terminal at the Kulata BCP has been was completed and is now operational;
     New facility for detailed Customs inspection of containers on the territory of the container terminal -
      port Bourgas has been completed (the first of such kind in Bulgaria);
     New Customs office and truck terminal - Vidin Customs has been completed; and
     New administration building, five booths for border control of trucks, cars, busses and pedestrians,
      public sanitary facility have been completed at the Gyueshevo BCP (at the border with the FYR
      Macedonia).

The total value of the investments is approximately 9.73 million Euro, 6.33 million Euro of which are Loan
proceeds. Thus, the Bulgaria TTFSE Project has achieved a maximum use of the Loan proceeds for
investments: 82 % of the 7.73 million Euro total Loan amount.

Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project (see Attachment 3)

In addition to the improvements planned for the Vidin BCP under the TTFSE Project, US Grant funds were
allocated for the same BCP in 2002 under the Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project. Seventeen
control booths, new mobile disinfection facility, and specialized equipment for border agencies, asphalt pavement
and other works and equipment have been procured under this Project.




                                                        - 52 -

The value of the investments made under the Project is about USD 413,000, USD 326,000 of which is
Grant funds. Thus, the share of funds spent for investments towards the total Project cost amounts to
84.3%, being another significant achievement, similar to the outcome of the major TTFSE Project.

3. Borrower's/Implementing Agency Performance

The Borrower's performance (namely of the Ministry of Finance) during the preparation of the Project was
highly satisfactory. Bulgaria was the first among the participating countries in the TTFSE Regional
Program that signed the Loan Agreement in mid 2000.

The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance (MOF), has actively acted during the Project life - from the
Project identification through the Project completion. During the Project implementation, the Borrower has
consistently maintained its commitment to the Project, through a strong Project Implementation Team (PIT)
established within the MOF.

The PIT has performed its duties under the leadership of the Project National Coordinator, Deputy Minister
of Finance and responsible for the Customs, and in close collaboration with the World Bank Project team in
taking corrective implementation measures and solving operational issues.

The PIT comprising highly committed and competent specialists has been acknowledged as one of the best
reporting teams in the TTFSE Regional Program and in the eight countries involved. The PIT has very
effectively managed to deal with the Loan management, procurement, disbursement and reporting. It proved
commitment, flexibility and ability to identify practical solutions and meet tight deadlines.

The PIT has timely prepared quarterly progress reports on project implementation and furnished to the
World Bank audit reports on the Project financial statements, prepared by an independent auditor in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing, which were considered acceptable to the Bank.

The performance of the Bulgarian Customs administration responsible for the implementation of two of the
five Project components, has been also satisfactory. TTFSE Project Team has been set up at the Central
Customs Directorate to function as a coordination "unit" for implementation of actions under the relevant
Customs components. The Deputy Director General of the National Customs Agency has been assigned as
the Head of the Team.

The overall Borrower's performance has been satisfactory. Delays in the Customs reform realization and
procurement plan were of serious concern in the beginning of the Project implementation. . As a result, in
2001 the Project was rated unsatisfactory on implementation progress. The World Bank and the
Government agreed on an action plan to bring the performance at pilot sites back to a satisfactory level
within a six months period. After successful implementation of the plan the project was upgraded to
satisfactory.

At the end of 2002, a Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out by a Quality Assessment Group
(QAG) panel of reviewers for the Bulgaria TTFSE Project. As per the final quality rating, the Bulgaria
TTFSE Team obtained an overall highly satisfactory rating, i.e. "1", which was the highest possible score
and a rare rating in the Bank as well.




                                                     - 53 -

Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project (VCFCIP) (see Attachment 3)

The Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project was a stand-alone project that was financed by US
Grant amounting to USD 400,000. The Project aimed at improving the connection between Vidin
(Bulgaria) and Calafat (Romania) over the Danube River, along Corridor IV.

The World Bank agreed to prepare and supervise the implementation of this Project on the basis of its
complementarity with the World Bank supported Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
(TTFSE) Program, in which both Bulgaria and Romania were participating.

The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the existing TTFSE Project Implementation Team were responsible
for the realization of the Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project Grant. The Project was
implemented from 2002 to 2004 (successfully completed in September 2004).

4. World Bank Performance

The World Bank performance during all stages of the TTFSE Project, including identification, preparation,
appraisal, implementation and completion, has been satisfactory.

Review teams providing flexibility, responsiveness and extensive assistance to the Borrower and the Project
Implementation Team have closely monitored the Project in the course of its implementation. In the
implementation period nine World Bank supervision missions were held and respective Aide-Memoires
have been regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging topical issues and defining follow-up concrete steps
and agreed actions.

The World Bank and Borrower's activities have been supported by the US Customs Advisory Team's
(STAT). The STAT advisers have brought their knowledge and expertise in the Customs institutional
reforms assessment, data collection, monitoring of performance indicators and selectivity and thus
contributed to the overall successful Project implementation.

LESSONS LEARNED

Customs Institutional Development and Trade Facilitation

In the context of the near future perspective of accession of Bulgaria to the EU, Customs should completely
assume trade facilitation as its own key policy. This is preconditioned by the expectation that the Bulgarian
Customs, along with the rest of EU family Customs administrations, will keep on facilitating import and
export operations with the intent to bring benefits to both the European economy and the economies of EU
trading partners. In particular, Customs should ensure: simplification of requirements and formalities in
respect of the clearance of goods; improved working methods and transparency of Customs operations;
reduction, simplification and standardization of Customs data; application of modern Customs techniques;
and use of simplified or pre-arrival Customs procedures and processes.

On the other hand, as a member of the World Customs Organization (WCO), the Bulgarian Customs
should further apply WCO instruments and standards of trade facilitation (such as the revised Kyoto
Convention, WCO Data Model, Time Release Study, etc.), as well as take part in its current initiatives and
programs.




                                                     - 54 -

Not lastly, the Bulgarian Customs administration activities should correspond to the global efforts of the
day to focus on non-tariff barriers and their impact on national economies and trade, including undertakings
with regional value.

The TTFSE Project has complemented the endeavors to meet the aforesaid facilitation requirements through
a number of initiatives and practices that proved to be useful during project implementation, or will have
lasting effect on Customs procedures. These are:

    Establishment of prerequisites for facilitation of operations of legal traders trough the usage of a
     streamline processing procedure for trucks with advanced information and a "green lane", of advanced
     declaration submission procedure, supported by BICIS module (at the inland pilot), and expedited
     procedures for delivery of containers arriving at seaports (pilot initiatives replication);
    Creation of an effective feedback mechanism to permit analysis and redirection of the physical
     examination efforts carried out by the Customs authorities through the uniform reporting and analysis
     of physical examination results (pilot initiatives replication) and minimization of number of trucks
     directed for routine checks (pilot initiative);
    Introduction of the interagency cooperation mechanism of local project teams at border crossings that
     has resulted in continuous work cycle during the shifts, permanent exchange of information among the
     authorities, and in a number of cases, in changes of the work methodology towards improvement of the
     organization and strengthening of border control;
    Establishment of flexible communications with trade community by means of regular working meetings
     with economic operators, forwarders and Customs agents (related to project pilot initiatives);
    Acknowledgement of the importance of the regional institutional approach (the TTFSE Regional
     Steering Committee) in supporting the efforts made by the Customs administration of Southeast
     Europe to abolish unwarranted impediments to trade, by means of direct contact between entities,
     opportunities to raise topical issues, coordination of various projects and subsequent concerted actions
     between the individual Customs administrations, at expert level; and
    Improvement of skills and competencies of Customs officials on modern Customs procedures and
     techniques, including inside acquaintance with foreign Customs expertise, by means of continuous
     dialog and consultations (STAT technical assistance).

Infrastructure Improvement and Trade Facilitation

On the one hand, the economic imperatives of trade liberalization and facilitation call for borders to become
increasingly pervious, and on the other hand, there must be credible controls at the borders to prevent
threats to national and world security. The national economies must have efficient infrastructure to
facilitate competitiveness, expand trade and investment, and thus improve the welfare of citizens.

Transport infrastructure improvements in the region of Southeastern Europe are important in order to
support the economic growth of the individual countries and the regional integration.

The TTFSE Project has responded to the above requirements by means of:

    Providing necessary investments for six of the main border crossing points in Bulgaria, thus
     complementing the government efforts (including agreed EU and international donor community funds)
     towards entire rehabilitation of border points;
    Contributing to the initiatives to reduce delays at borders, trough suitable physical infrastructure
     upgrading and new facilities that support expedite border processing;



                                                      - 55 -

  Establishing the grounds for next trade facilitation steps at border crossings, such as further
   strengthening of border procedures, improvement of information exchange between the border agencies
   and continuation of the equipment modernization process.

Moreover, some substantial issues, which would require narrow consideration by the respective government
authorities and follow-up measures, came up during the TTFSE Project implementation:

  Development of a sound investment program based on national priorities. One of the priorities of
   Bulgaria in the transport sector is "the elaboration of national strategy for development of the
   infrastructure of Bulgaria till the year 2015";
  Extension of infrastructure improvement efforts at border crossings in order to further diminish their
   function "to act as bottlenecks", in combination with institutional changes and use of best practices and
   modern technology; and
  Keeping the quality of infrastructure at border crossing points in line with the traffic volume estimates
   based on specific studies to be conducted by the concerned bodies.




                                                  - 56 -

                                                                                               Attachment 1


Project Components and Subcomponents

The Bulgaria TTFSE Project consists of the following five components:

A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform

                  Component                                        Subcomponent
1. Monitoring and review of BCA procedures     1.1. Monitor and refine productivity indicators
                                               enabling international comparisons
                                               1.2 Designated border stations and inland Customs
                                               stations to serve as test sites for ideas to improve
                                               operations
2. Implementation and training on new          2.1. Inter-agency awareness and training
procedures


B. Trade Facilitation Development

                  Component                                        Subcomponent
1. Strengthening of Private-Public Partnership 1.1 Establish and maintain a regional website to
                                               support the program and act as a focal point for trade
                                               facilitation
2. Improvement of the performance of trade     2.1. Expert services and training
facilitation agents


C. Improvement of Bulgarian Integrated Customs Information System (BICIS)

                  Component                                        Subcomponent
1. Exchange program                            1.1. Regional experience sharing program




                                                 - 57 -

D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities

                   Component                                         Subcomponent
1. Gyueshevo BCP                             1.1 Administration building for Customs and Border
                                             Police
                                             1.2 Paving and fencing
                                             1.3 Canopies
                                             1.4 Control booths
                                             1.5 Public facility buildings
                                             1.6 Site utilities
2. Vidin BCP                                 2.1 Additional lane and fencing (Vidin I phase)
                                             2.2 Canopies, booths, reconstruction of existing
                                             administration building, site utilities (Vidin II phase)
                                             2.3 New Customs office and truck terminal, comprising
                                             administration building, heavy vehicle detailed inspection
                                             building, parking areas, water supply and drainage,
                                             electrical utilities, fencing and etc. (Vidin III phase)
3. Rousse BCP                                3.1 Administration building for passport and visa control
                                             for the needs of the Border Police
                                             3.2 Site utilities
4. Kapitan Andreevo BCP                      4.1 Canopies repairs
                                             4.2 Building repairs
                                             4.3 Canopy and booths
                                             4.4 Warehouse reconstruction
                                             4.5 Passenger building
                                             4.6 Heating and electrical repairs
5. Kulata BCP                                5.1 Administration building
                                             5.2 Inspection building
                                             5.3 Truck terminal parking area
                                             5.4 Utilities
6. Bourgas BCP                               6.1 New container inspection terminal
7. Technical assistance                      7.1. Supervision of civil works at Rousse and Vidin I and
                                             II phase
                                             7.2. Supervision of civil works at the Kulata BCP
                                             7.3 Supervision of civil works at the Gyueshevo and
                                             Kapitan Andreevo BCPs
                                             7.4 Supervision of civil works at the Bourgas BCP
                                             7.5 Supervision of civil works at Vidin III phase


E. Program and Project Implementation

                   Component                                         Subcomponent
1. PIT                                       1.1. Operating costs
                                             1.2. PIT support
2. RSC Secretariat and Procurement Advisors  2.1.Consultant services
3. Auditors                                  3.1. Consultant services




                                                - 58 -

                                                                                                 Attachment 2


Customs Business Strategy

At the end of 2002 the BCA undertook to update the objectives and tasks included in the Business strategy
and particularly, the activities in the detailed plan for its implementation. This commitment was
preconditioned by the necessity to measure the achieved results, as well as to redefine some of the activities
and priorities, taking into account process developments at national scale and worldwide. Several
amendments of the Customs Act and its Implementation regulation have been prepared with the intent to
carry on the process of harmonization of Bulgarian Customs legislation with the EC law (activity 1.1. to
goal 1 of the Detailed Plan).

In compliance with activity 1.2 "Conclusion of intergovernmental agreements on cooperation and mutual
assistance in Customs matters" to objective 1.1, goal 1 of the Detailed Plan, bilateral Customs cooperation
agreements have been signed (during project implementation) with Azerbaijan, Armenia, Iran, Albania,
Moldova, Poland, France, Slovakia and Slovenia.

As regards cooperation with the economic and trade sector (objective 2.2, goal 1 of the Business strategy),
on July 16, 2002 was established (by Decree 147 of the Council of Ministers) the State-public consultative
Commission on support of the development of the Customs administration.

In compliance with activity 3 to objective 1.1, goal 1 of the Detailed Plan, relating to international Customs
conventions, Bulgaria has acceded to:

(i) the Convention on temporary import in 2003; and
(ii) the Protocol of amendment to the International convention on the simplification and harmonization of
     Customs procedures (the revised Kyoto Convention) in 2004.

In compliance with activity 1 "Development and introduction of a Customs Ethics Code" to objective 1.9,
goal 1 of the Detailed Plan, and according to the provisions of Art. 17(1), p. 5, of the Customs Act, the
Minister of Finance endorsed in 2003 an updated version of the Customs Conduct Code. This is the first
code of ethics in force in the state administration.

In compliance with activity 3 "Improvement of the interaction between the Customs administration and
other border and inland control authorities" to objective 4.1, goal 4 of the Detailed Plan, the following
major documents were signed during project implementation: agreement on cooperation and interaction
between the National Audit Office and the Customs administration (in 2002); instruction for interaction
between the National Customs Agency and the Tax administration (in 2004); agreement between the
National Customs Agency and the Supreme Public Prosecutor (in 2004); information exchange agreement
between the National Customs Agency and the Military Police and Counter-intelligence Service (in 2004);
memorandum of cooperation in the field of intellectual and industrial property rights protection in Bulgaria
between the National Customs Agency, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of
Justice and Patent Authority (in 2005).




                                                    - 59 -

                                                                                                    Attachment 3


Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project

Background

The Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project was a stand-alone project which has contributed to the
improvement of the connection between Vidin (Bulgaria) and Calafat (Romania) over the Danube river, along
Corridor IV.

The World Bank agreed to prepare and supervise the implementation of this Project on the basis of its
complementarily with the World Bank supported Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE)
Program, in which both Bulgaria and Romania were participating.

The Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania received grants from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) to cover the cost of the Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing Improvement Project.
The recipient of the grant on behalf of Bulgaria was the Ministry of Finance. The Grant Agreement became
effective on April 30, 2003, and the notification for its effectiveness was received on May 9, 2003.

For Bulgaria, the TTFSE Project Implementation Team (PIT), established at the Ministry of Finance, was
responsible for the implementation of the Vidin- Calafat Improvement Project.

Project Objectives and Components

The objectives of the project are to:

(i) increase the through-put capacity at the Vidin-Calafat Ferry Crossing by alleviating backups of vehicles
      waiting for border control processing and ferry loading; and
(ii) correspondingly reduce transport costs.

The Project will achieve these objectives by: (i) the reform of operational procedures at the two border crossing
points serving the ferry crossing and (ii) the financing of works, equipment, and consulting services necessary to
complement the operational reforms indicated in the Operational Plans.

The Project has three major components:

(i) civil works to improve the work sites of the border agencies;
(ii) equipment for enhancement of border processing; and
(iii) consultant services for the design and supervision of the works.

VCFCIP Implementation

The total amount of the Project was USD 491,000, USD 400,000 of which was Grant proceeds and respectively
USD 91,000 local contribution. The value of the investments was at the amount of USD 413,000, USD 326,000 of
which was Grant funds.

The construction works and delivery of equipment envisaged for financing under the Project were completed before
the Closing date of the Grant.

The Vidin Calafat Grant Closing date was June 2004. Meanwhile, the Bank granted grace period for finalizing the
Project activities and the VCFCI Project was completed successfully in October 2004.




                                                          - 60 -

- 61 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 30859
                      Salzburg
                                                              15                           Bratislava                         20                                                                    25  Chernivtsi                                                                    30
                                                                                                                                    Miskolc
                                    A U S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Yuzhnoukrayinsk
                                                                                                                                             Nyregyhza                                                                W  Siret
                                                                                                                                                                         Satu Mare                                                             M    Balti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                Gyor
                                                                                                   "                                                                                                                                                                           U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Suceava               O
                                                                                                                      Budapest                Debrecen                             Baia
                                                                                                                                                                                   Mare                                                              L
        Lienz                                                     Graz                         Szkesfehrvr                                                                                                                                          D
                              St Veit an                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                              der Glan                                                                      H U N G A R Y                                    Oradea                                                                                           Chisinau 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Iasi             V
                                                                                                   V                         Kecskemt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Piatra-                                A       Tighina
                                                            Maribor                                              V   X      IV                                                                                        Neamt
                                                                                                                                                                      Cluj-Napoca
                                  SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Odessa
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Targu Mures             Bacau      Bacau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                           Ljubljana                                   Macelj
                                                                                                      Pcs               Szeged                       Arad                                                                                       IX

                                                                        Zagreb
                   Trieste                           Jankomir                                                                                                                        R O M A N I A
                                                                           X
    Venice
                                       Rijeka                     Karlovac  CROATIA                    Osijek                                                                        Sibiu                                        Focsani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Brasov
45                                                      Maljevac W           Gradiska         Slavonski
                                                                                               Brod   Samac
                                                                               WNovi                                         Novi Sad                                                      IV
                                                                                                 W
                   Pula                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Braila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                Grad                  W                                                       IV
                                                                                          Bosanska             Zupanja                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Buzau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                   C  Izacic              Gradiska                                                                                  Ramnicu
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                      Bihac                                C  W Gunja                                                                Valcea
                                                                                Banja     Banja      Orasje
                                                                                 Luka                                                                             Drobeta-
                                                                                          Luka      Doboj    Raca C                                                                                   Pitesti  Ploiesti
                                                                                                                                                                    Turnu
                                                                                                           Tuzla          Belgrade
                                                                                                                                                                   Severin
                   A                                                            BOSNIA AND

   SAN                                                                                                                                                                       Craiova                                        Bucharest
   MARINO                 d                                                       Jajce     Travnik
                              r                                              HERZEGOVINA                                       FED. REP. OF                                                                                                       Constanta C     Constanta
                                 i   a                                          D Kamensko                                     YUGOSLAVIA                       Vidin W                                      Giurgiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B l a c k
                                                                                                  V
                                          t                                Split         Grude          Sarajevo                                                                                                          Rousse
                                              i                                                  Konjic                      (SERB./MONT.)                                                      VII                   C Rousse
                                                 c                                                                                                                                                                                           Dobrich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IX                                                                        S e a
                                                                                Gorica D                                                                 X
                                                                                              Mostar                                                                                        Pleven
  I T A L Y                                                                                                                                                Nis
                                                                                                                                                                           IV

                                                                                          D Doljani                                                                                                                                                     Varna
   Terni                                                                                                                                                          X                       B U L G A R I A
                            Pescara
                                                                                       Dubrovnik                                                                                                                             Sliven
                                                                                                                                                Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                     Sofia                            Plovdiv

                                                                                                                                                                 Pernik                                                               VIII      W  Bourgas

Rome  SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION                                              S                            Podgorica                                                                                  Stara Zagora                                   Bourgas

    TRADE AND TRANSPORT                                                         e                                                         Tabanovce
                                                                                                                                                                 C  Gyueshevo
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST                                                         a                                  Shkodr                           C      C
                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                            Qafe        Tetovo               Deve
         EUROPE PROJECT                                                                                                                             Skopje
                                                                                                                           Morina   Kumanovo                 Bair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kapitan      W
                (BULGARIA)                               Foggia                                                                                                                 Cotse
                                                                                                                                    Gostivar          FYR                                                                          Edirne
                                                                                                                                                                               Delchev                        Andreevo

                                                                                                          Durres                    VIII
              PROJECT*:                                                                                               Tirana               MACEDONIA                           Kulata
                                                                            Bari                             Durrs        Tirana                                            W                                                                   IV
          W  Naples
               INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                              C  Kafasan        Prilep
                                                                                                                                       Struga   X
          D    DESIGN PROJECT                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                   Elbasan              Ohrid
                                                                                                                            Qafe                Bitola                                                                                                                               Kadiky
               PILOT BORDER STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Istanbul                                       Sakarya
                                                                                                                           Thane                                          IV
               PILOT INLAND TERMINALS                                                                              ALBANIA                                        X

          C    COMBINED PILOT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                  Taranto                                     Kor俉                                                                                                                                                              Golck
                                                                                                                                                                       Thessaloniki
40                                                                                                          Vlor
          II  PAN EUROPEAN TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                                                 Lecce                                                                                                                                                                                         T U R K E Y
              MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                  Ersek                                                                                                                                                    Bursa

              MAJOR RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
    Mediterranean
              MAIN CITIES
                                                                                                                  Sarand                G R E E C E
             Sea
              NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          0       50     100     150     200                                                                                                                                 Balikesir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                 15                                                                                    20                                     Larisa                                  25                                                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30
              *Subject to change as other projects are finalized.                           KILOMETERS                                       Trikala                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAY 2000

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 30431
                                               15
                                                                CZECH REP.                                          20                                                                 25                                           30
  GERMANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
                                                                                                     SLOVAK REP.                                                                                         UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRADE AND TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                               Exports: Imports:                                                                                     (BULGARIA)
                                   AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                        $491 $815
                                                                                                                                                                               190/32 190/32
                                                                                                                                                                                 $3600 $3500                                                                           MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
                                                                                                                                                                                            To France
           Exports: Imports:     Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                       From France
              $767 $1616            $30 $136
              48/2 48/2            60/4 60/4                                                         HUNGARY                                                                                                               MOLDOVA
             $1400 $1400          $1500 $1700                                                                                                       Exports: Imports:                                                                                    IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (1998):
                                                                  Imports:                                                                           $1628 $2063
                                                                   $612                                                                             150/32 150/32                                                                                   EXPORTS (US$, Millions)                                        IMPORTS (US$, Millions)
                                                                   48/2                                                                              $2075 $2000
                                                                   $1300                                                                                                                                                                                                                Exports: Imports:     Thickness of line reflects Export amount
                               SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $211 $300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Transport Time                  192/24 192/24                       Transport Time
                                                                                 Exports:                                                                                                                                                      (between capital cities)/                  $3800 $3800                       (between capital cities)/
                                                                                   $654                                                                                                                                                         Waiting Time @ Border                                      Thickness of     Waiting Time @ Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           line reflects
                                      Exports: Imports:                            24/2                                                                                     ROMANIA                                                            Crossing Points (Hours)*                                    Import amount    Crossing Points (Hours)*

                                         $432 $722                                 $850                                                                                                                                                                                                     Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                               From                                                                            Costs
                                         10/2 10/2      CROATIA                                                                                                                                          Russian Federation                                                                    (US$)
                                         $650 $650                                                                                              To USA    Exports:                 $1390                           Imports:                                                    *Average time and costs estimated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                based on surveys and estimates.
45                                    $4520                                                                                                               $319                                                     $1062

     Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
       $802 $1500
       72/2 72/2                                                                                                                                                       Exports: Imports:                                                  45
      $1900 $1900                                  Exports: Imports:                                       FED. REP. OF                                                 $1827 $2058
                                                       $141 $366             $1200                         YUGOSLAVIA                                                  130/32 130/32                                 Exports:
                                Exports: Imports:      24/2 24/2                                                                                                        $2180 $2100                                   $323                                MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
                                   $36 $182            $500 $650      BOSNIA AND                          (SERB./MONT.)                                                                                              80/12                                       GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
  SAN MARINO                      40/3 36/3                                                                                                                                                                          $1015
                                  $700 $800                          HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $4000

                                                                                                                                                                Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                   $449 $723
                                                                                                                                                                144/36 144/36
                                                                                                                                                                  $1350 $1900                                                                                                                                       $2000
                                                                                                             Exports: Imports: Exports: Imports:
                                                                                         Exports: Imports:     $240 $242          $282 $255                                                                                        Black
                                                        Exports: Imports:                   $192 $353          24/5 24/5        96/12 96/12                                                                    From                 Sea                                                                             $1000

                                                          $144 $900                         24/4 24/4          $650 $650        $1800 $1800      Exports: Imports:                                       Russian Federation                                                                                         $500
                            Adriatic                      48/4 48/4                         $700 $700                                              $551 $396
                                                         $1900 $1900                                                                              96/36 96/36                                                       Imports:
                             Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Expor
                                                                                                                                                  $1700 $2300                  BULGARIA                              $1038                                                                    Impor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    240/36                                          Real
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ts                          GDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $1600                                              GDP           (FOB)        t (CIF)           per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                          Capita
    ITALY                                                                                                                                                                          $1230                                                                                                     in            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Exports:                                                               US$            US$           US$
                                                                                                                                                                                                           $339                                                                       billion        billion        billion      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                           32/5                                                                                                                      US$

                                                                                    Exports: Imports:                                                                                                      $800

                                                                                       $11 $30               Imports:               FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ALBANIA                             2.9            0.2               .8           810
                                                                                   192/24 192/24              $113         MACEDONIA
                                                                                     $3800 $3800              72/12                                                   Exports: Imports:                                                                 BOSNIA &                            4.1            0.8            2.5           1200
                                                                                                              $2000               $1290                                  $377 $297                                                                      HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                         48/5 48/5
                                                                                                 ALBANIA                                                                                                                                                BULGARIA                           12.3            4.6            5.0           1230
                                                                             Exports: Imports:                                                     Exports:              $900 $850

                                                                               $130 $352                                                             $97                                                                                                CROATIA                            20.5            4.4            8.8           4520

                                                                             144/24 144/24                                                          12/2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FYR MACEDONIA                       3.5            1.3            1.9           1290
                                                                             $2100 $2800                                                 Imports:   $500

                                                                                                          $810              Imports:      $149                                                                                                          ROMANIA                            38.2            8.3          11.8            1390
                                                                                                                              $32
40     To USA                                                                                                              192/24
        Exports:                                                                                                             $2800
         $175                                                                                                 Exports: Imports:                                                                                                            40
                                                                                                                 $26 $234                                                                                                                               0                      100                        200                         300
                                                                                                               96/24 144/24
                                                                                                               $1100 $1300                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                            Aegean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TURKEY
                                                                                                                              GREECE                                             Sea                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  15                                                                                20                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAY 2000

