Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4339-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
April 22, 1983
Power & Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Kyat(K) (100 Pyas) =    US$0.125
K 1 million                US$125,000
US$1                  =    K 8.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)                0.305k,meters (m)
I mile (mi)          =    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 pound (lb)               0.45 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (ton)     =    1.02 metric tons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFPTC    -      Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
ADB      -      Asian Development Bank
BAC      -      Burma Airways Corporation
BDC      -      Burma Dockyard Corporation
BFSSC    -      Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation
BIWTC    -      Burma Inland Waterways Transport Corporation
BPC      -      Burma Ports Corporation
BRC      -      Burma Railways Corporation
BSW      -      Brooking Street Wharves
CC       -      Construction Corporation
c.f.s.   -      Container Freight Station
CMCC     -      Central Movement Coordination Committee
ERR      -      Economic Rate of Return
FFYP     -      Fourth Four-Year Plan
GOB      -      Government of the Union of Burma
GDP      -      Gross Domestic Product
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
KKY      -      Suction Dredger "Kyant Khaing Yay"
MOC      -      Ministry of Construction
MOPF     -      Ministry of Planning and Finance
MOT      -      Ministry of Trade
MOTC     -      Ministry of Transport and Communications
OPEC     -      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCD      -      Progress Coordination Division
RTC      -      Road Transport Corporation
SEEs     -      State Economic Enterprises
SPW      -      Sule Pagoda Wharves
TEU      -      Twenty Foot Equivalent Units
TNY      -      Bucket Dredger "Thaung Naing Yay"
UGCF     -      Union of Burma Consolidated Fund
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. *  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ...         ....................................      1
A.  Economic Setting  .         ...................................        1
B.  The Transport System  ................................                 2
C.  Transport Administration, Planning and Organization ..                 5
D.  Past Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector ...                 6
II.   THE PORT OF RANGOON  .. ................ . ..................... .          7
A.  Organization and Administration                .....................   7
B.  Training   . .......... . ...........   .9
C.  Existing Port Facilities   .....          .......................    10
D.  Existing Operations   ................  ...................           12
III.  THE PROJECT              .............................................    14
A.  Project Objectives and Composition               .................    14
B.  Subsequent Development Strategy ......................               14
C.  Project Scope and Description ....             ....................  14
D.  C70st Estimates ...................................................  16
E.  Financing Plan ................. ...         .                       18
F.  Execution of the Project            .............................    18
G.  Procurement ..          .........................................    20
H.  Disbursements .....0...... ........................................  21
I.  Monitoring        ....................................... . ...      21
J.  Port Efficiency Indicators ..................... . ......            22
K.  Environmental Impact . ............................... .             22
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .............. . ........ ..............             23
A.  Major Determinants of International Trade ............               23
B.  Port Capacity Considerations .........................               26
C.  Economic Justification  .....           .........................    27
D.  Sensitivity Analysis  . ................................             28
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION..   29
A.  Introduction .............. . .                       .....29
B. Improvements in Accounting System              . . .30
C.  Budgets and Audits ..........                    .     .30
D. Tariffs                    ...31
E.  Past Performance  ..          .      ............... *.              32
F.  Future Prospects  ...............             .     .     .34
G. Financial Resources..                        .. .36
H.  Financial Aspects of Container Operations   .            .37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....      ..............    38
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Proposed Progress Coordination Division .............  .    40
Annex 2 - Existing Dockyard Facilities - Rangoon  . .............      41
Annex 3 - Improvements to Cargo Handling Productivity
and Throughput for General Cargo ......hufor.Ga o.....    43
Annex 4 - Proposed Container Yard  ........... ............    49
Annex 5 - Renewal and Renovation - Marine Works ............ oo-       52
Annex 6 - Reconstruction of Pontoon Jetties ...  o- .........    56
Annex 7 - Training and Technical Assistance ........ . -...... ...    58
Annex 8 - Details of the Economic Justification ....... o.........     60
Annex 9 - Assumptions Made in Preparing Financial Forecasts  ...       65
Annex 10- Port Efficiency Indicators  ....-.-.-.-.-..        ....    67
Annex 11- Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File .. .............    69
TABLES
Table  1 - Existing Berths and Storage Areas - Rangoon         ......  70
Table  2 - Existing Cargo Handling Equipment ...... o ..  .........    71
Table  3 - Existing Lightships and Navigation Aids .. .     .........   72
Table  4- Existing Major Vessels  oo- .       ..................... .....   73
Table  5 - Allocation of Existing Berths to Commodities  .....         74
Table  6 - General Cargo Productivity and
Berth Throughput 1984/85      . .......e... ***-..    75
Table  7 - General Cargo Productivity and
Berth Throughput 1989/90  .... -      ...............    76
Table 8- Estimated Project Costs                 ..                    77
Table  9 - Detailed Estimated Costs -
Cargo Handling Equipment  ......... ...-. ............   78
Table 10 - Detailed Estimated Costs - Container Yard,
Port Lighting, and Pontoon Renovation ... - ... ooo-    79
Table 11 - Detailed Estimated Costs - Marine
Works and Dredger Overhaul             ....              80
Table 12 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule  ......  -oooo.o ......    81
Table 13 - International Traffic through
Rangoon Port and Outports - 1975/76-1981/82  oo.o    82
Table 14 - Actual and Projected Interntional Traffic
Through Rangoon Port 1978/79-1999/2000 ...               83



-iii-
Page -No.
Table 15 - Forecast of Container Traffic
Through Rangoon Port - 1981/82-1999/2000      ..........   84
Table 16 - Economic Costs and Benefits  .... .....................    85
Table 17 - BPC Income and Expenditure Forecasts FY78 to FY82 ....   86
Table 18 - BPC Balance Sheets FY78 to FY82 ..* ...................   87
Table 19 - Key Cost Item Percentages FY78 to FY82 ................   88
Table 20 - BPC Income and Expenditure Forecasts FY83 to FY89  ....   89
Table 21 - BPC Balance Sheet Forecasts FY83 to FY89      .............   90
Table 22 - BPC Five-Year Investment Program -
Summary FY84 to FY88 ...............*******0-4s   91
Table 23 - BPC Sources and Application of Funds
Forecasts FY83 to FY89  .......................................   92
Table 24 - Traffic and Occupancy at Deepwater
Berths - 1978/79 to 1981/82 .............0...........   93
CHARTS
Chart I   - BPC - Existing Organization Chart        ...................   94
Chart II  - BPC - Proposed Organization Chart         ...            95
Chart  ItI - Project Implementation      ............................    96
Chart IV - Proposed Container Yard Phased Construction .........     97
MAPS
Map BPI       -  Port of Rangoon
Map BP2       -  Rangoon Approach Channel
Map 10044 R3  -   Burma
This report is based on information provided by the Government of Burma and
Burma Ports Corporation and on the findings of an appraisal mission in
October/November 1982 consisting of Messrs. M. Alikhan (Financial Analyst),
R.N. Vinekar (Sr. Ports Engineer), M. Pulgar-Vidal (Economist);
Ms. M. Kiwana
(Young Professional) and Mr. F. Higginbottom (Consultant).






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01    Burma covers an area of about 262,000 square miles and consists of
lowlands in the basins of the rivers Irrawaddy, Chindwin, Sittang and
Salween, surrounded by hills and mountains to the east, north and west,
and divided by a hill range running from north to south in central Burma
(IBRD Map 10044R3). The country is well endowed with natural resources
and has a total population of about 35 million, which is growing at a rate
of 2.3% per annum. About one-quarter of the population lives in urban
areas and the rest is dispersed in a large number of villages located in
the main agricultural areas, i.e., the river basins and the Irrawaddy
delta. The main centers of population and economic activity are Rangoon
and Mandalay, the former being the capital, the seat of government and
virtually the country's only international port.
1.02    Because of damage suffered during World War II, internal unrest
and a decade of economic stagnation during a period of social restructur-
ing (from the mid-60's to the mid-70's), Burma has only recently begun to
expand per capita output of major commodities and to augment export earn-
ings in real terms. During the mid and late 70's, the Government of Burma
(GOB) carried out a series of major reforms aimed at reorienting economic
policies in a more open and pragmatic fashion. These reforms included
shifts of investment priorities in favor of the primary producing sectors,
adjusted producer and retail prices to enhance incentives and rationalize
the price structure, and emphasized adherence to commercial principles in
the functioning of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs). Mainly as a result
of these reforms, the country's economic performance in recent years has
contrasted favorably with the previous period of economic stagnation. For
instance, real GDP increased approximately 6.5% p.a. between 1976/77 and
1980/81, while it grew only 2.9% p.a. between 1971/72 and 1976/77; the
relevant growth rates in the transport sector were 7.3% p.a. and -0.4%
p.a., respectively. GDP per capita has also increased and now stands at
about US$160 equivalent. The quicker pace of economic development is
reflected in (i) steadily rising agricultural production, resulting mainly
from GOB's decision to introduce high-yielding varieties and to increase
fertilizer usage; (ii) higher utilization of existing capacity in industry
and transport; and (iii) rapid increases in investment, particularly in
the public sector.l/
1/ Burma's past and present economic performance are extensively dis-
cussed in World Bank Report No. 3852-BA, "Burma: Priorities for
Continued Growth", dated May 7, 1982.



-2-
1.03    Transport and communications together account for about 5% of GDP
and slightly more than 3% of total employment. Mechanized freight traf-
fic 2/ in terms of tons loaded, grew at 6.5% per annum between 1976/77 and
1980/81, which suggests a GDP elasticity of freight transport demand
roughly equal to unity. Mechanized passenger traffic, in terms of numbers
of passengers, on the other hand, grew at only 3.3% per annum during the
same period. A closer look at freight transport in the country reveals
that the share of agricultural commodities is about 35%, and that of
forestry products, about 30%. It may therefore be argued that the recent
surge of demand for freight transport is largely a reflection of the rapid
growth of the agricultural sector.
1.04    The Government's main economic goal under the Fourth Four-Year
Plan (FFYP) 1982/83 - 85/86, is to maintain the momentum of growth, while
avoiding undesirable inflationary pressures. This will require, among
other things, (i) continued success in the development of the agricultural
sector; (ii) further improvements in capacity utilization and produc-
tivity, especially in industry and transport; (iii) a judicious choice of
investment projects; and (iv) sufficient resources -- both foreign and
domestic -- to carry out the investment program at the required rate.
Continued economic development will be reflected in increased import and
export levels, which will put additional pressures on the Port of Rangoon.
The proposed project is aimed at easing a potential transport bottleneck
by increasing the capacity utilization, the productivity and the overall
quality of services at the Port of Rangoon.
B. The Transport System
1.05    Historically, coastal and inland water transport have been the
most important elements of the transport system. With the development of
international trade and shipping, the Port of Rangoon was established in
the late 1800's and gradually expanded over the next eighty years. Simul-
taneously, and complementary to the inland water system, railway construc-
tion was started, resulting in the creation of a second major transport
mode linking Rangoon with other important inland centers. Later, other
smaller coastal ports were developed and roads constructed to complement
the rest of the transport system.
1.06    The transport system of Burma now comprises about 16,000 miles of
road; 2,000 miles of railways; 5,000 miles of navigable waterways of which
3,700 miles are navigable throughout the year; one main international port
and eight coastal ports (currently referred to as outports); and 45 air-
ports, of which only Rangoon airport handles international traffic. The
2/ Statistics concerning non-mechanized transport are virtually
non-existent.



-3-
topography of the country and the location of population and agriculture
along the rivers have emphasized river and road transport and moderated
the role of the railways. The north-south transport corridor connecting
Rangoon with Mandalay and Myitkina is the main artery of the transport
system and is served by road, river, railway and civil aviation. Com-
plementing those modes, coastal shipping services meet the demand for
transport along the coast and in the Irrawaddy delta. Of the total number
of ton-miles currently transported within the country, an estimated 57% is
carried by water, 39% by road and 4% by rail. Non-public involvement in
the transport sector remains preponderant; in 1981/82, for instance,
cooperative and private operators carried 64 out of a total of 76 million
tons transported in Burma. GOB's Central Movement Coordination Committee
(CMCC) (para 1.15) is the public entity responsible for allocating public
sector freight among available carriers, including (residually) private
operators. These usually avail themselves of the opportunity to haul
publicly-owned freight because it gives them easier access to domestic and
imported spares and tires at official prices. Such allocations, however,
are often insufficient, and private operators must purchase additional
amounts of spares and tires at considerably higher prices on the open
market.
1.07    The ports of Burma are administered by the Burma Ports Corporation
(BPC), which is under the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC).
The Port of Rangoon 1/ handles 90-95% of the country's exports and vir-
tually all imports. In 1981/82, total seaborne freight traffic loaded and
unloaded at Rangoon (Table 14) was about 2.8 million tons (of which 2.5
million tons were international cargo); in the same year, the Port of
Rangoon also handled about 1.4 million tons of cargo coming from or going
to inland waterways destinations. Total traffic at the outports (para
2.03) on the other hand, was about 0.5 million tons, of which over 0.1
million tons was international traffic, principally rice exports.
1.08    Ocean shipping is mainly carried out by Burma's Five Star Shipping
Corporation (BFSSC), which operates eleven sea-going vessels (six of them
in excess of 10,000 deadweight tons) and eleven coasters and tankers, and
charters foreign flag vessels. Freight carried on BFSSC's own vessels in
ocean and coastal trade amounted to about 950,000 tons in 1981/82. As a
whole, BFSSC carries about 30% of Burma's foreign trade on its own ves-
sels. It is estimated that about 80% of Burma's foreign trade is carried
by BFSSC's vessels, vessels chartered by BFSSC, and by tramps.
1.09    Inland water transport is provided by the state-owned Burma Inland
Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC), under MOTC, and by a large number of
1/ A more detailed discussion of the facilities, operation, organization
and administration of the Port of Rangoon is supplied in Chapter II.



-4-
private operators. Traffic carried by BIWTC in 1981/82 amounted to about
1.5 million tons and over 17 million passengers. No transport statistics
are collected concerning private inland water transport but, on the basis
of fleet statistics, it is estimated that private river crafts carry the
bulk of inland water freight transport in the country (about 32 million
tons in 1979/80). Private river operators are also estimated to carry
about 50% of passengers, mainly over short distances.
1.10    The railways are operated by the publicly-owned Burma Railways
Corporation (BRC) which is also controlled by MOTC. BRC owns about 2,000
miles of meter gauge track. Traffic has grown in recent years and in
1981/82, BRC carried about 56 million passengers and 2.5 million tons of
freight. While the railway track is generally in fair condition, the
locomotive and rolling stock fleet is not; in 1979/80, the availability of
motive power was about 70% and that of rolling stock, 75%. There have
been some improvements, however, and the shortage of spare parts and
skilled mechanics, particularly for diesel locomotives, is abating. Wagon
turnaround time, for instance, decreased from 16 to 13 days between 1975
and 1980.
1.11    The road network consists of about 16,000 miles, of which
one-third has bituminous surfacing. The main arteries are the two
north-south roads between Rangoon and Mandalay. One of the main shortcom-
ings has been lack of maintenance over the years, with many roads and
bridges now requiring extensive rehabilitation. In 1980 there were 96,000
recorded motor vehicles in Burma, about 80% owned by the private sector.
Trucks make up about one-third of the total. Registration data show that
the vehicle fleet has been growing at an average annual rate of about
2.5%, but these figures are of total registrations and take no account of
vehicles that are scrapped. Road Transport in Burma is provided by
private operators, cooperative institutions and public corporations. The
private sector owns the bulk of the truck and bus fleets, and consists of
owner-operators and small transport firms. The cooperative sector
includes five cooperatives engaged in transport and vehicle repair
activities, which operate on commercial principles. The public road
transport sector consists of the Road Transport Corporation (RTC) and the
fleets owned by major public sector corporations to cater to their own
needs.
1.12    The Civil Aviation Department, also under MOTC, is responsible
for the administration of all airports in Burma. Navigational aids are of
poor range and quality and standby equipment is virtually non- existent.
Aircraft maintenance and repair facilities are old, and the condition of
runways at a number of airports is deteriorating. The Government-owned
Burma Airways Corporation (BAC) is the sole Burmese commercial airline.
It operates 18 aircraft on domestic and limited international routes, and
carried about 5,00.0 tons of freight and 550,000 passengers in 1981/82.



-5-
C. Transport Administration, Planning and Organization
1.13    Following independence and particularly since 1962, GOB increased
its control over the sector by nationalizing transport firms and by
allocating government-controlled freight preferentially to public tran-
sport agencies. Railway and air transport and ocean-going shipping are
now entirely nationalized; private sector activity takes place in road
transport, inland water transport and coastal shipping.
1.14    Transport activities are within the purview of MOTC, except for
highway planning and construction, which come under the Ministry of
Construction (MOC). MOTC is responsible for enforcing government policies
regarding transportation, by (a) approving the budgets of transport agen-
cies in consultation with the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF);
(b) appointing top level officers at transport agencies; (c) setting
tariffs and tariff policies; and (d) enforcing relevant regulations in the
operation of the sector.
1.15    MOTC overlooks the operation of BPC, BRC, BAC, BIWTC, RTC, BFSSC,
the Burma Dockyard Corporation (BDC), and the Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation. Within MOTC there are seven departments: Civil Aviation;
Marine Administration: Meteorology and Hydrology; Posts and
Telecommunications; Road Transport Administration; Transport and Com-
munications Planning and Operations; and Waterways. Of these, the Tran-
sport and Communications Planning and Operations Department acts as a
secretariat to the CMCC (para 1.06). In addition, MOTC runs two permanent
training institutions: the Central Transport and Communications Training
School and the Institute of Marine Technology.
1.16    Transport planning is carried out within the context of overall
national planning, which is in turn based on long-term objectives estab-
lished by the Party Congress. On the basis of explicit targets for the
transport sector, MOTC and MOC prepare four-year plans for all transport
modes. In recent years, some progress has taken place as regards GOB's
planning function, in terms of improved data base and improved progress
reporting and project evaluation mechanisms. The general operation of the
transport sector has also improved as a result of GOB's decision to grant
increased autonomy to state enterprises to enable them to operate more
on commercial principles, including the freedom to choose the carriers to
transport their own freight. This, and some reductions in the extent of
the CMCC's control powers, have had an impact on public transport corpora-
tions which are now less protected against competition from the private
sector, and therefore pay more attention to costs and efficiency.



-6-
D. Past Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.17    The lending strategy of the Bank Group in Burma has emphasized the
improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of transport facilities to
achieve greater utilization of existing assets. Within this scope, past
lending operations have covered all important transport modes and financed
capital items and spare parts, as well as technical assistance.
1.18    The First Railways Project in 1956 (139-BA, US$5.35 million) and
the Second Railways Project in 1961 (247-BA, US$14 million) were designed
to help BRC in the postwar reconstruction of infrastructure and the intro-
duction of diesel motive power. After a decade of no Bank involvement
in Burma, a Third Railways Project (414-BA, US$16.7 million) was approved
in 1973 to continue the improvement and rehabilitation of the railways.
All projects were satisfactorily implemented. A Project Completion Report
(PCR) concerning project 414-BA was issued on October 10, 1978 and a
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) was issued on June 29, 1979.
1.19    Another Bank Group assisted project in Burma was that approved
in 1973 (413-BA. US$16.3 million) to assist the BIWTC rehabilitate its
fleet and acquire new vessels, engines and other equipment and spares.
This project was satisfactorily completed and the relevant PCR and PPAR
were issued on January 24 and June 18, 1979, respectively. The most
recent operation with some bearing on Burma's transport sector is a
Construction Industry Project, which was approved in 1982 (1253-BA,
US$20.0 million), and is aimed at improving highway maintenance and
strengthening the Construction Corporation.
1.20    The Bank Group's association with BPC dates back to 1956, when a
project was approved to reconstruct cargo berths and storage facilities
and to purchase cargo handling and other equipment (140-BA, US$14.0
million). This project was followed in 1977 by a Second Port Project
(671-BA) for US$10.0 million, with the objective of preventing further
deterioration of the Rangoon sea access channel, and improving cargo
handling equipment and other port facilities. This project was success-
fully completed on schedule and a PCR was issued on February 24, 1983.
Further development work and improvement of port operations are still
necessary, and the proposed Third Port project has been designed to meet
this need.
1.21    Overall, Burma's transport system has shown substantial ability
to meet the increasing demands placed on it by a growing economy. As the
economy continues to grow transport capacity is reaching its limits. Some
issues remain which need to be addressed to improve the efficiency of the
sector: (a) transport statistics are not routinely compiled on all modes,
and those that are available are not fully used as an input to investment,
pricing and regulatory decisions; (b) the allocation of traffic to public
transport agencies is done by CMCC on the basis of criteria that do not



-7-
adequately take into account the comparative advantages of different
modes; (c) maintenance of infrastructure and equipment is generally defi-
cient; (d) transport tariffs in many instances do not generally reflect
the cost of providing transport services, particularly in the case of
state transport corporations; and (e) the private sector is not given
sufficient attention by the Government, despite the fact that it carries
the bulk of goods and passengers in the country. The present project is
aimed at easing a major potential bottleneck and addresses some of the
issues outlined above. It contains provision for a minimum financial rate
of return (para 5.21), which would involve tariff readjustments for port
services; improvement of planning, management information system and
training functions at the port; and overall improvement of maintenance
practices of the port facilities. Other projects under preparation, such
as the Timber Distribution Project, will encourage improved coordination
among agencies and allocation of traffic on the basis of economic cost
rather than capacity availability in public sector transport agencies.
The Bank has, in previous transport projects, emphasized maximum utiliza-
tion of existing facilities; this project has been designed in line with
this strategy.
II. THE PORT OF RANGOON
A. Organization and Administration
2.01    A statutory body "The Commissioners of the Port of Rangoon" was
constituted as the Port Authority by an Act of 1879. The Rangoon Port
Act 1905, the provisions of which (as amended in 1954) are still in force,
contained provisions for the Commissioners' borrowing powers but its other
functions remained unchanged. The Amendment Act of 1954 revised the
membership of the Board of Commissioners, prescribed fresh terms and
conditions for floating loans and presentation of accounts and changed
its name to the Board of Management for the Port of Rangoon.
2.02    The Board ceased to function on the redesignation of the port
authority as the Burma Ports Corporation (Notification No. 1, dated
March 16, 1972). In August 1973, the Chairman of the former Board of
Management for the Port of Rangoon was redesignated as Managing Director
of the Burma Ports Corporation. The Managing Director is the Chief Execu-
tive and is directly responsible to MOTC. He is Chairman of a
seven-member Board of Management appointed by MOTC and the Worker's
Organization of Port Employees.
2.03    In 1962 the Outports came under the control of BPC and the
1905 Act was amended to enable BPC to administer the outports of Akyab,
Kyaukpyu, Bassein, Moulmein, Tavoy and Mergui. In 1965, the port of
Kawthaung was added and in 1968, Sandoway.



-8-
2.04    Beginning April 1976, BPC, in conjunction with other SEE's, was
given a greater degree of financial autonomy, as provided in the commer-
cial guidelines prepared by GOB for SEE's. Although all acts and proceed-
ings of BPC, including setting of tariff levels, are subject to the
approval of the Government, in practice BPC has a high level of autonomy
in conducting its affairs.
2.05    BPC's organization consists of seven departments, each headed by
a Principal Officer (Chart I), of which the Traffic Department is respon-
sible for all cargo handling and stevedoring operations in the port. In
addition, it also acts as shipping agency for all ships calling at the
ports of Burma and is responsible for assessing future berth and equipment
requirements to meet the changing technology in shipping and cargo
handling and growing traffic volume. The Chief Traffic Manager is
assisted by the Traffic Manager (Operations) responsible for all cargo
handling operations and the Traffic Manager (Agency) whno is responsible
for all agency work. The Traffic Department is sub-divided into nine
divisions. The outports are managed by BPC but are administered by Port
Officers; they are of little significance in the context of this report.
The Chief Mechanical Engineer manages the workshops and dockyards, and the
Chief Civil Engineer the repair and maintenance of all berths and tran-
sit/sheds including floating pontoon berths.
2.06    The Managing Director, as the Chief Executive Officer, is respon-
sible for dealing with all matters of policy affecting the port; he also
directs and coordinates the working of individual departments and is
assisted by the General Manager in the day-to-day running of the
Corporation and in matters relating to short and long-term planning,
personnel and financial policies.
2.07    A BPC proposed new management organization structure (Chart II)
has been submitted to MOTC for approval with the objective of better
distribution of workload. As a first step, duties and responsibilities
which are at present overlapping will be more clearly defined and new
divisions will be created. Even though at this initial reorganization
more officers will be reporting to the General Manager, informal arrange-
ments have been made by BPC to combine similar activities under a small
number of officers, who will be reporting directly to the General Manager.
After gaining experience with the new arrangements, an intermediate layer
of management will be proposed by BPC for formal incorporation into the
organization structure with GOB approval. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that as part of the above overall organizational changes to be
effected, BPC will establish by December 31, 1983 a Progress Coordination
Division, a Training Division and an Internal Audit Division (paras 2.09,
2.10 and 5.06 respectively).



-9-
Staff and Labor
2.08    The total number of regular staff employed by BPC at present is
7,675 including 194 officers. The sanctioned establishment strength is
9,780, plus casual laborers 3,750 (3,050 currently employed); BPC has
freedom to increase staff within these limits. Additional recruitment for
the Traffic Department will be necessary and this is not expected to
present any problems; BPC has plans for the necessary recruitment phased
over a period of four years. There is one Staff Association, which can
discuss working conditions, promotion and (theoretically) pay. Basic pay
rates are still very low for all employees including officers although
cost of living allowances have been granted in the recent past few years.
Cargo handling gangs are paid overtime pay and an incentive bonus for
moving more than standard tonnages per day. In spite of the low pay,
BPC's management and senior officials are competent and well qualified;
the level of general efficiency is higher than is found in other SEE's in
Burma and all required maintenance is undertaken by its own staff; the
dockyards and engineering shop's staffs are both experienced and com-
petent. The present port management has enjoyed a good relationship with
staff and labor which will be an advantage at the time of development and
inevitable change. Overall, current practices are basically sound and in
accord with other large modern ports.
Planning
2.09    BPC has relatively flexible and realistic planning procedures.
Under Credit 671-BA several port officials obtained experience in planning
and finance activities at various ports in South East Asia and UK. Never-
theless, the planning function needs to be strengthened and BPC, recogniz-
ing this, has proposed creation of a Progress Coordination Division (PCD)
which would be responsible for coordination between engineering and
development, traffic and finance activities. PCD would be guided by a
Planning Steering Committee, which would comprise the Managing Director,
the General Manager and nominated principal officers. Responsibilities,
duties and staffing of PCD were developed by BPC and reviewed by IDA and
found to be acceptable (Annex 1). BPC will effect this change by December
31, 1983 (para 2.07 and Chart II).
B. Training
2.10    An effective training program is an essential requirement for
Rangoon Port's advent into modern technology and especially container
operations. BPC presently has a number of good training programs mainly
for stevedoring and cargo handling operations in the port, run by the
Traffic Department. Under Credit 671-BA, the Organization for
Rehabilitation through Training (Switzerland) (ORT) presented courses and
introduced a program for instruction in a number of technical subjects;
dredger operating training was also undertaken. BPC is well aware of the
value of organized training but lacks the service of a central training



-10-
organization to initiate, coordinate and administer all aspects of train-
ing and development. A Training Division, suitably staffed and headed by
a Training Manager, will be established under the Administration Depart-
ment. BPC will effect this by December 31, 1983 (para 2.07 and Chart II).
Also BPC agreed to discuss with IDA, a Plan of Action for implementation
of a local training program for skilled and semi-skilled labor by
September 30, 1984, including proposals for instructorst training.
C. Existing Port Facilities
2.11    Rangoon is situated at the northern end of the Rangoon River
estuary, the easternmost of the numerous effluents of the Irrawaddy delta
area, which connects the port to the Gulf of Martaban (Map No. 10044R3).
The estuary is fed by three rivers with a common confluence in the
vicinity of the city: the Rangoon (or Hlaing) River which has a number of
connections with che Irrawaddy River, the Pegu River and the smaller
Pazundaung Creek (Map BP1).
2.12    The present entrance channel has a length of about 20 sea miles
between the Port of Rangoon and its mouth near Elephant Point (Map BP2).
At the Inner Bar, off Monkey Point, a minimum depth of about 12 ft. below
Datum level (lowest low water) is maintained by dredging, but BPC is
trying to increase this to 15 ft. No dredging is required at present at
the Outer Bar as 15 ft. depth is being maintained by natural forces. The
Outer Bar between the Spit Sands and the Eastern Grove Flats is crossed
by two natural channels of which the East Channel is the deeper and has
been the seaway channel since 1963, although the channel is not stable and
may change in future. These available depths presently limit access to
ships of about 10,000 dwt to the Port of Rangoon. Springtides have a
range of about 19 ft. and neap tides 8 ft. above Datum level. High water
at the Inner bar is about 1 hour later than high water at the Outer Bar,
permitting most ships to cross both bars during a single tide. Pilotage
is compulsory.
2.13    BPC carries out the maintenance dredging of the entrance channel
and that required alongside the berths with its own dredgers. The suction
dredger "Thaung Naing Yay" (TNY) has been utilized on dredging the Inner
Bar at Monkey Point whilst the bucket dredger "Kyant Khaing Yay" (KKY)
dredged the shipping berths. Two pontoon grab dredgers "Minton 5" and
"Minton 6" are utilized on general dredging and clearing at berths, pon-
toons and slipways. The dredgers TNY and KKY received major overhauls
under Credit 671-BA (para 3.12).
2.14    The general layout of Rangoon Port is shown in Map BP1.  The
twelve existing alongside cargo berths and one passenger berth (Port
Health Station) for ocean-going ships are in two groups - the upstream
group: Hteedan coal and, Hteedan and Ahlone rice berths, and the down--
stream group: Sule Pagoda berths, Brooking Street Wharves and the Port



-11-
Health Station (Table 1 and Map BP1). There are also a number of stream
berths in the form of buoy moorings, seven in the inner harbor and three
at Ahlone, where ships can be loaded and unloaded by lighters. Three buoy
moorings are available for tankers near the petroleum refinery at Syriam.
Ships waiting for the tide to use the entrance channel may be anchored
either at the three moorings outside the harbor limit at Hastings or at
the Explosives anchorage depending on the ship's draft. Except for the
upstream berths at Hteedan and Ahlone, which take advantage of the
proximity of the 30-feet depth to the shoreline, all the other berths
require maintenance dredging.
2.15    Storage facilities comprise both open storage and covered accom-
modation in transit sheds (Table 1). BPC also owns 66 landing areas and
facilities (the foreshore berths and jetties) along the river frontage on
the north side of the harbor for coastal traffic. These comprise mainly
floating steel pontoons moored off the foreshore and connected to it by
foot bridges. The landing facilities are served by a waterfront road
which gives access to godowns, also owned by BPC, or to Strand Road
immediately beyond. These godowns, 229 in number, are leased mainly to
the State-owned Trade Corporation, and serve the coastal trade handled at
the foreshore berths.
2.16    The port owns mechanical cargo handling equipment such as portal
type quay cranes, mobile cranes, tractors, trailers, forklift trucks and
one stationary heavy-lift crane (Table 2). Maintenance presents some
problems due mainly to a lack of foreign exchange to finance and maintain
inventory of essential spare parts; also spares for much of the older
equipment are no longer available. However, the equipment provided under
Credit 671-BA is being well maintained. The existing procedures and
practices of the maintenance workshops are satisfactory.
2.17    There are nine operational tank pontoon jetties in the port,
including the Hteedan coal berth and the passenger terminal (Port Health
Station); there are also 42 steel pontoons forming 33 jetties, used mostly
as foreshore jetties, and connected to land by 57 bridges (see Annex 6).
Some of the bridges are supported at the floating end by steel sponsons
consisting of a single steel tank. A number of these jetties were renewed
under Credit 671-BA. BPC can satisfactorily undertake repairs and
renewals in the Chief Civil Engineer's yard.
2.18    BPC is responsible for providing and maintaining all navigation
aids in Burmese coastal waters as well as in the entrance channel to
Rangoon, including lighthouses, lightships and navigation buoys (Table 3).
It owns a fleet of 10 major vessels (Table 4) to undertake these services,
all of which with the exception of two harbor tugs, are over 20 years old.
All these ships urgently need replacement or major overhauls (para 3.03(b)
and Annex 5). There are in addition a large number of harbor launches,



-12-
work barges and boats in need of repair. The difficulty has been provi-
sion of steel plate and sections, spares and engines on an adequate scale,
due to lack of foreign exchange. BPC's dockyards (para 2.19) are capable
of undertaking the work. Some additional equipment for the dockyards will
be provided under the project.
2.19    Six slipways are available in the dockyard and workshops area at
Theinbyu Street workshops, three being capable of slipping vessels of
about 150 tons. There are also three slipways at Angyi dockyard on the
south side of the harbor and a dry dock at Setsan in Pazundaung Creek
which can take vessels up to 220 ft. long with 11.5 ft. draft (which will
include all BPC-owned vessels). Details are given in Annex 2. The
facilities are mainly used by BPC vessels although the dock is used occa-
sionally by Navy vessels since it is the only dry dock in the country. A
buoy maintenance yard is available at King's Bank on the southside of the
harbor.
D. Existing Operations
2.20    Berthing of ships is arranged at the Chief Traffic Manager's daily
berthing meeting, as is the allocation of labor and mechanical equipment
for all port operations.
2.21    Operating personnel employed on permanent engagement total about
2,000 including some 1,000 stevedores. Casual labor, 1,000 approximately,
is employed on a daily basis and is used principally for the delivery of
cargos from quay sheds to consignees, and to supplement the quay gangs as
and when required.
2.22    Stevedoring and cargo handling gangs are provided in two 8-hour
shifts, which are worked each day, followed by four hours overtime. The
day shift commences at 8 a.m. and finishes at 8 p.m. while the night shift
takes over until 8 a.m. the following morning. The port is open seven
days per week for a total of about 330 days per year after allowing for
public holidays and time lost due to bad weather.
2.23    During 1981/82 Rangoon port handled 2.5 million tons international
cargo comprising 0.2 million tons of liquid bulk (crude, POL) and 2.3
million tons of dry cargo (grain, timber, fertilizer, coal and general
cargo). Some container traffic has started coming into Rangoon. The
liquid bulk cargo is handled at Syriam oil terminal which is separate from
the other port facilities and is more than adequate for present oil traf-
fic. The dry cargo and containers are handled at the twelve deepwater
cargo berths. A total of over 700 ships were serviced at the deepwater
berths during 1981/82 and the berth occupancy was about 88% (Tables 5 and
24).



-13-
2.24    General cargo is mostly handled with the use of ship's gear, the
available quay cranes being out of service for lack of spares. Mechanical
handling equipment is available (Table 2), as are some pallets, but addi-
tional equipment and pallets are to be provided under the proposed
project; improved lighting to port operating areas, to improve night shift
productivity, is also included (para 3.03(a)).
2.25    Storage capacity for general cargo, both in transit sheds and on
open storage areas (Table 1), is satisfactory. A major problem, however,
is the slow pick-up of cargo by consignees, resulting in excessive dwell
time of cargo in the port, currently about 30 days. The problem is recog-
nized by BPC and they have undertaken to improve the situation but, as
nearly all import cargo is for government corporations, they cannot
resolve the problem unilaterally. Provision of increased storage capacity
for importing corporations and additional transportation are matters for
consideration. During negotiations, BPC indicated that a survey to deter-
mine the main problems of the corporations had been initiated and agreed
that the target dates for reduction of cargo dwell time to 25 days, 20
days and 15 days will be December 31, 1984, June 30, 1985 and December 31,
1985 respectively.
2.26    The two main export cargos, rice and timber, are currently shipped
f.o.b., and this results in comparatively short notice of a ship's arrival
time for loading. AFPTC are responsible for loading export rice cargos
and there are currently considerable delays to shipping due to non-arrival
of the correct grade/quality of rice for loading, at the ship's side. The
situation is complicated by the number of grades of rice shipped and the
need to restrict storage time, if remilling is to be avoided. Shipping
export cargos c.i.f. would simplify these problems and the Government
should consider this. Although there is considerable storage available at
or near the port, it has been recommended that covered storage for rice be
increased by 12,800 sq.yds. to give 18 days storage. However, a Grain
Storage Study under the UNDP Umbrella Program is in hand and its findings
are expected during the first half of 1983. Provision of the additional
storage should, therefore, be subject to the findings of this study which
will be discussed with IDA. For timber products, additional log storage
will be provided by enlarging the area allocated behind Brooking Street
Wharves (para 3.03(a)). During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government that additional rice storage as may be agreed with IDA upon
completion of the Grain Storage Study would be provided. This would be in
addition to 11,600 sq.yds. already scheduled for construction.



-14-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Composition
3.01    The principal objectives of the proposed project are to enable
the Port of Rangoon to handle the expected growth in international break-
bulk general cargo and containerized traffic to 1989/90 by improving
efficiency and avoiding construction of additional berths; and to improve
the basic services necessary to enable shipping to use the port and
Burmese coastal waters. This will be achieved by (i) improving the
throughput of the existing twelve general cargo berths; (ii) providing
a container yard behind Brooking Street Wharves; (iii) renewing and
renovating BPC's major service vessels, harbor craft, and navigation aids;
and (iv) repairing some existing floating pontoon berths.
B. Subsequent Port Development
3.02    Traffic forecasts indicate that around 1990, congestion will
develop and reduce the efficiency of the port, causing unacceptable delays
to ships and cargos unless additional port capacity is provided; moreover,
further capacity expansion at the present site of Rangoon Port after 1990
will not be feasible because of lack of adequate backup space, although
the possible use of internal container depots should be investigated.
After investigating alternative sites for port expansion to meet the
anticipated traffic, a new port site at Thilawa, some 20 km downstream
from the present Rangoon Port, has been identified by the consultants,
Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, (UK). This site is not connected to the
mainland near Rangoon and a bridge over the Pegu River as well as the
related infrastructure, i.e., road and rail links, would need to be con-
structed. The level of investment required would be substantial. GOB
has earmarked funds under UNDP Umbrella Program III for conducting a
feasibility study for development of a new port at Thilawa. GOB/BPC will,
in consultation with IDA, decide on the appropriate timing for initiating
the feasibility study and its terms of reference.
C. Project Scope and Description
3.03    The scope of the proposed project is adapted from the feasibility
study carried out by BPC with the help of its consultants in 1981/82,
financed under the UNDP Umbrella II Program, the main recommendations of
which have been reviewed by IDA and agreed with GOB/BPC. The proposed
project will comprise:



-15-
(a) measures to increase port productivity and throughput by:
i) acquisition of additional cargo handling equipment and
pallets to expedite and improve general cargo and container
operations;
ii) provision of a container yard and container freight station,
and increased timber log storage area behind Brooking Street
Wharves (BSW);
iii) improved lighting to operating areas of the port;
iv) provision of telecommunication equipment for setting up a
centralized operating control center for cargo handling
operations;
also, as mentioned in paras 2.25 and 2.26, BPC and GOB are to take
measures to:
v) reduce delays of cargo dwell time in the port; and
vi) reduce delays to delivery of rice export cargos to ships;
BPC's documentation procedures primarily for handling containers will also
be reviewed by specialists (para 3.03.d.ii). Details of the above
proposals and the new general and containerized cargo handling equipment
to be provided are given in Annexes 3 and 4, and Table 9. The allocation
of traffic among the existing berths and the improvements expected in
productivity and throughput are shown in Tables 5, 6 and 7.
(b) Renewal and renovation of BPC's major vessels, harbor craft, and
navigation aids by:
i) acquisition of two new vessels;
ii) construction in BPC's dockyards of 2 small grab dredgers,
4 hopper barges, 8 mooring and 10 navigation buoys;
iii) renovation in BPC's dockyards of 3 service vessels,
16 mooring buoys, 10 navigation buoys, 10 launches, and 6
work barges and boats;
iv) procurement of spares and components for the maintenance of
vessels and position finding equipment;
v) overhaul of the suction dredger TNY and provision of spares
for it; and



-16-
vi) procurement of ancillary equipment, for the dockyard
workshops and for communications, and new lanterns for
navigation aids;
details of these proposals and of the ancillary equipment and lanterns to
be procured are given in Annex 5.
(c) restoration of berths constructed of floating pontoons used for
the foreshore jetties and two deep sea berths together with
approach bridges and ancillary equipment (Annex 6);
(d) technical assistance and training comprising:
i) training courses in Burma and overseas/regional training
for all categories of port workers;
ii) review of documentation procedures for general and con-
tainerized cargo operations;
iii) training of instructors; and
iv) provision of training equipment.
Details are given in Annex 7 and all necessary training facilities will be
provided by BPC.
(e) consulting services to supervise the construction of the container
yard and of the two new vessels.
3.04    Pending construction of the new container yard and shed, container
traffic is being handled on the existing berths with containers unstuffed
on available open storage areas. The number of containers which can be
handled by this method is limited to about 2,500 TEU per annum. The new
container yard is therefore required as quickly as possible to enable
increased container traffic to be handled.
3.05    Final engineering of the project was undertaken by Consultants
(Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners,(UK)) under a contract financed under the
UNDP Umbrella III Program. Detailed cost estimates and specifications
were provided by the Consultants.
D. Cost Estimates
3.06    The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes, is
estimated at about US$98 million equivalent with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$50 million equivalent (75% of estimated total cost net of
duties and taxes)., which would be financed under the proposed development



-17-
credit. Details of the cost estimates are given in Tables 8, 9, 10 and 11
and are summarized below:
---- Kyats 'OOOs -----           US$ 'OOOs          Foreign
Cost as
%age
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total  of Credit
General and
Containerized Cargo
Handling Equipment      1,840   91,360   93,200        230 11,420   11,650    23
Container Yard and
Container Freight
Station Construction  34,240   18,040   52,280   4,280  2,255    6,535          5
Port Lighting,
Electrical
Installation and
Jetty renovation       31,360   43,840   75,200   3,920   5,480   9,400    11
New Vessels                  640   60,560   61,200        80   7,570   7,650    15
Vessel renewals and
renovation, Dredger
overhaul spares and
ancillary equipment   36,120  105,320  141,440   4,515  13,165  17,680    26
Technical Assistance
and Training            1,120    8,720    9,840       140   1,090   1,230       2
Consulting Services          -      4,800    4,800      -        600      600     1
Base Cost               105,320  332,640  437,960  13,165  41,580  54,745    83
Duties and Taxes        244,840      -      244,840  30,605      -    30,605
Physical Contingencies  10,160   22,960   33,120   1,270   2,870   4,140          6
Price Contingencies      19,480   44,400   63,880   2,435   5,550   7,985    11
Total :    379,800  400,000  779,800  47,475  50,000  97,475   100
3.07    The cost estimate of the project works has been based on the
consultant's estimate based upon final engineering in 1983 prices, which
was prepared using cost of materials and labor in Rangoon and the cost of
materials and equipment to be imported; it is considered to be realistic.
Contingency provision is calculated using (a) physical contingency of 10%
for all items excluding cargo handling equipment procurement; and
(b) annual price escalation of 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985
and 6.0% for 1986 and 1987 in the case of foreign costs, and 6% for
1983-1987 in the case of local costs. The local price contingency has
been provided based on the nature of goods involved in the proposed
project. Provision for technical assistance and training is based upon 12
man-months expatriate specialist services at US$13,500 per man-month and
138 man-months of overseas/regional training at US$4,250 per man-month
(Annex 7).



-18-
E. Financing Plan
3.08    The proposed IDA financing of the project would cover the
estimated US$50 million foreign exchange cost of the project; US$48
million eqlivalent local cost would be met by BPC from its own resources
and, if there is a shortfall, it would be provided by the Government.
3.09    The Government of Burma will be the Borrower, and BPC the Execut-
ing Agency for this project. The proceeds of the Credit would be onlent
to BPC under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to IDA. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Govern-
ment regarding the onlending terms (para 5.21). Signing of the subsidiary
loan agreement should be a condition of credit effectiveness.
F. Execution of the Project
3.10    BPC will be responsible for the execution of the project.  Project
implementation is expected to take about five years as shown on the con-
struction bar chart (Chart III) commencing July 1983 and terminating June
30, 1988. At present a Project Implementation Unit, headed by a Project
Manager and staffed with appropriate support staff is in place at BPC.
During negotiations, it was agreed to maintain the unit for the duration
of the proposed project, adequately staffed.
3.11    A large part of the area to be used for the container yard behind
BSW (about 11 acres) is occupied by the offices of three government
departments: the Customs Department (Ministry of Finance), the Construc-
tion Corporation (CC) and the Irrigation Department (Ministry of Agricul-
ture) (Annex 4); there are also a few godowns and houses occupied by the
staff of BPC and the Customs Department. GOB has released the necessary
land to BPC but construction of the container yard will involve the fol-
lowing steps:
(a) arrangement of alternative accommodation for the present occupants
to be relocated;
(b) demolition of the existing buildings and structures to clear the
site; and
(c) construction of the container yard and c.f.s.
Clearance of the land can only be carried out in stages as and when the
present occupants have been relocated. Clearance of Phase I (Chart IV) is
expected by June 1984, Phase II by December 1984 and Phase III by
December 1985. In view of the need for providing additional storage area
as speedily as possible, to remove the existing constraints on handling of
container traffic, it will be necessary to develop the container yard in
phases as the cleared parcels of land become available. Having regard to



-19-
the modest workload involved in each phase, BPC proposes that the con-
struction be entrusted to CC under a negotiated contract, which will be
reviewed and approved by IDA prior to the award of the contract. Comple-
tion of the construction of the container yard is expected about mid 1986.
Accordingly during negotiation, confirmation was obtained from GOB that it
has initiated action to relocate the present occupants. Also agreement
was reached with BPC that it will: (i) be responsible for implementation
of the phased construction of the container yard and c.f.s.; (ii) procure
by ICB all imported materials and equipment required for such construc-
tion; and (iii) demolish the buildings and level the land by the dates
referred to above for each phase, so that phased construction can be
carried out in line with the agreed schedule given in Chart III.
3.12    The suction dredger TNY has a capacity to dredge about 1.25
million cu.yds. annually. It is the only suction dredger BPC owns, and is
critical for maintaining the port entrance channel. Total dredging on the
inner and outer bars of the Rangoon River channel for maintaning 15 ft
depth at low water is estimated at about 1.0 million cu.yds. (Annex 5(d)),
based on the best available assessment on the regime of the river and the
dredging requirements (reports by Gibb/Nedeco 1976 and AVECO 1979). The
rated capacity of TNY to maintain the required depths is, therefore,
adequate. The dredger has not, however, demonstrated its full effective-
ness to date and BPC and IDA agree it is necessary to undertake controlled
and sustained (working two shifts if necessary) dredging over two full
dredging seasons (November to June each year). Based on the results of
this test period, a technical, financial and economic evaluation of alter-
natives available to BPC, should be made to provide the basis for a deci-
sion on whether the service life of the suction dredger TNY should be
extended further by a major overhaul or it should be replaced by another
dredger. TNY is expected to demonstrate its capacity to meet the dredging
requirements and, accordingly, funds have been provided in the proposed
project for a further major overhaul. At negotiations, it was agreed with
BPC that the sum allocated for dredger overhaul will not be committed
prior to agreement between BPC and IDA on the effectiveness of the
dredger's performance, tested over two dredging seasons commencing
November 1983, and a technical, financial and economic evaluation of the
alternatives after data of two dredging seasons has been obtained; spares
required during the test period can however be procured; BPC indicated
that the required dredging to determine the dredger TNY's capacity and
reliability is now underway and hence an additional full two seasons of
work after November 1983 may not be required. It was, therefore, agreed
that the appropriateness of the data submitted to IDA to form a basis for
the decision to proceed, or otherwise, with the proposed dredger overhaul,
would be agreed between BPC and IDA when the appropriate data is avail-
able.
3.13    For operational and economic reasons, BPC proposes to carry out
the renovation of the marine vessels in its own dockyards. As none of the



-20-
vessels in question are deep sea-going craft, the cost and risk involved
in preparing and transporting the units to and from overseas dockyards
would be disproportionately large. Further, all the vessels being still
in service, the timing of their release for renovation will have to be
determined at short notice to ensure that port operations are not adver-
sely affected. This would be more practicable if renovation is carried out
in BPC's own dockyards. The facilities and staff available in BPC's
dockyards are adequate to undertake the proposed renovation program.
3.14    BPC would need to retain services of consulting engineers for
supervision of construction of the container yard and of the construction
of two new service vessels. At negotiations, agreement was reached with
BPC that experienced consulting engineers will be appointed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. About 40 man-months of specialists serv-
ices have been provided for in the project for this purpose. Supervision
of the dredger overhaul, if agreed (para 3.12), would be by an appropriate
international marine inspection agency approved by IDA.
G. Procurement
3.15    Contracts will be let on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB), in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procure-
ment, for (i) the construction of the two new vessels financed by the
project; (ii) cargo handling and other equipment to be procured; and
(iii) imported materials to be procured for all electrical and lighting
installations, service and harbor craft and pontoon berth renewals and
renovation, and for the container yard. The construction of the container
yard would be carried out under a negotiated contract with CC (para 3.11).
In the case of the container freight station, the prefabricated structural
steelwork, cladding and fittings will be procured through ICB while the
erection of the steelwork on the prepared foundations will be carried out
by BPC with local labor supervised by a specialist from the manufacturer,
under arrangements satisfactory to IDA. Rehabilitation of marine vessels
will be undertaken in BPC's own dockyards (para 3.13). The contract for
overhaul of the suction dredger TNY will be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding from prequalified shipyards. A preference of 15% of the
cif cost or the customs duty and taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed
for local manufacturers, but it is not likely that any of the items to be
procured will be manufactured locally, except possibly one of the new
vessels. The cost of spares and components to be procured by BPC, not
subject to competitive bidding, is estimated not to exceed US$500,000,
which includes up to US$150,000 for the dredger TNY. Documents for all
contracts estimated to cost over US$100,000 for equipment and other goods
will be reviewed by IDA before bids are invited and submitted to the Bank
for approval prior to the issue of tenders. Contracts for items to be
procured overseas costing less than US$100,000 equivalent will be awarded
by BPC and the details provided to the Association.



-21-
H. Disbursements
3.16    Previous experience, as reflected in actual disbursement profiles
of prior IDA projects executed by BPC, indicates that implementation has
been generally on schedule. The estimated schedule of disbursements is
based upon the profile and is reasonable for the proposed project
implementation period of about five years (Table 12). The closing date
for the Credit is September 30, 1988. All procurement would be completed
by December 31, 1987, but renovation of some marine vessels may continue
up to the project completion date of June 30, 1988. The proceeds of the
credit would be disbursed as follows:
Material and equipment for   )          100% of foreign expenditures
Container Yard Construction )         if imported; 100% of local
)      expenditures ex-factory, if
Cargo Handling Equipment        )       locally manufactured; and
)      65% of local expeditures if
Materials Procurement for    )          procured locally other than
port lighting, electrical  )         ex-factory.
installation, and             )
renovation and renewal        )
of vessels and pontoons    )
)
Construction of new             )
vessels                       )
)
Dredger overhaul, and           )
spares and components for  )
existing equipment            )
Consultants Services )
Technical Assistance )                  100% of total cost
and Training         )
The above proposals would cover disbursement of the full estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project. For the procurement of the oxyacetylene
plant and mobile lighting towers, BPC proposes to initiate action
forthwith. Retroactive financing, not exceeding US$750,000 equivalent,
required for this purpose, is recommended.
I. Monitoring
3.17    To facilitate monitoring the execution of the project, BPC have
agreed to (a) submit quarterly reports to IDA in specified formats;
(b) maintain a separate account of the expenditures relating to the
project; and (c) prepare a project completion report within six months of
the closing date of the credit.



-22-
J. Port Efficiency Indicators
3.18    In order to monitor on a continuing basis the efficiency of the
port's oper2tions, BPC will compute on a quarterly basis the following
statistics: (a) cargo handling rates (and associated berth throughput) for
the main categories of cargo, i.e., break bulk, unitized and containerized
cargo, covering separately timber, rice, fertilizer/minerals, general
cargo, rubber/jute, cement and coal; (b) average dwell time of cargo in
port; (c) average ship service time; (d) average ship waiting time, i.e.,
the average time elapsed between ship arrival at outer anchorage and ship
arrival at berth; and (e) berth occupancy for each deepwater berth.
Although BPC currently gathers routinely a significant amount of informa-
tion on port operations and ship movements, it is likely that additional
data collection efforts will be required for the quarterly derivation of
the above mentioned indicators. Details of the data to be collected are
outlined in Annex 10. The proposed targets concerning general cargo
productivity and berth throughput to be achieved in 1984/85 and 1989/90
are given in Tables 6 and 7. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that BPC will begin to compute such statistics no later than January 1,
1984, and quarterly thereafter, and use its best endeavors to reach the
proposed efficiency targets by 1984/85 and 1989/90.
K. Environmental Impact
3.19    None of the proposed works in the project are expected to have
any adverse influence on the environment either in the river or the city
of Rangoon.



-23-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Major Determinants of International Trade
4.01    About 95% of international seaborne traffic 1/ is handled at the
Port of Rangoon, with other minor coastal ports (outports) carrying small
amounts of export traffic (mainly rice). Annual traffic volumes through
Rangoon Port grew at about 10% p.a. from 1975/76 to 1981/82, with a slight
acceleration during the second half of the period (Table 13), reflecting
GOB's decision to set the economy on a growth-oriented path. Increasing
international trade volumes are illustrated in Burma's  openness factor,
i.e. the ratio of trade to GDP, which grew from 6% in 1977/78 to 11% in
1980/81. An interesting feature of Burma's international trade, is that,
over the period 1978/79 - 1981/82, export volumes outstripped import
volumes by a 3-to-2 ratio. In 1981/82, total international traffic
through Rangoon reached a level of 2.5 million tons, including about 1.2
million tons of dry exports, 1.1 million tons of dry imports, and 0.2
million tons of POL traffic. The country's development strategy under the
FFYP calls for increased exports of raw materials-- and, albeit to a
lesser extent, semiprocessed goods-- and increased imports of capital and
intermediate goods. Medium- and long-term forecasts of the likely growth
of exports and imports through Rangoon Port have been prepared by
Consultants, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (UK) on the basis of
commodity-by-commodity analyses (Table 14). The overall trend that emer-
ges is that total dry cargo traffic through Rangoon Port is likely to grow
at an average of about 5% p.a. in the medium-term, reaching the
3.3-million ton mark in 1989/90. This projection, though conservative, is
consistent with an expected GDP growth rate of about 5% p.a. in the medium
term, and with the fact that international trade volumes for a country at
Burma's stage of development are likely to grow at least as rapidly as
GDP.
Exports
4.02    Burma's major export over the period 1978/79-1981/82 were rice,
timber and various other agricultural products, which represented 40%, 19%
and 20% of exported dry tonnage, respectively. The high proportion of
1/ Virtually all of Burma's international trade is shipped by sea, as
movement on land routes is highly restricted and air traffic is
negligible.



-24-
agriculture- and forestry-based commodities reflects the predominance of
primary sectors in the Burmese economy. Rice is the single most important
commodity in the country and accounts for about 40% of export revenues.
Total rice production grew considerably during the 1970's and is expected
to continue to increase, in accordance with GOB's macroeconomic plans. In
the medium term, increased rice production and exports are expected to
result from (i) the continuation and strengthening of GOB procurement
practices aimed at giving greater incentives to farmers; (ii) increased
rice-sown acreage; (iii) accelerated diffusion of high-yielding rice
varieties; (iv) increased cropping intensity, where possible; (v) more
extensive use of appropriate amounts of fertilizer; and (vi) improved rice
storage, handling, milling and grading. The per capita domestic consump-
tion of rice, which is relatively high by international standards, is not
expected significantly to rise over present levels, as likely improvements
in living standards will probably bring about substitutions of other types
of foodstuffs. The resulting domestic surplus of rice is likely to find
ready buyers abroad, both in Asian and African markets.
4.03    Exports of timber, which are dominated by teak, account for over
20% of Burma's foreign exchange revenue. They have played an important
role to prevent significant reductions of export earnings in years when
rice exports fell short of expectations. The demand for high- and
medium-quality teak in international markets is likely to absorb the
larger production expected to result from GOB's renewed emphasis on the
forestry sector. Several large-scale projects are currently under way and
GOB is stressing a balanced approach to the various stages of timber
exploitation (girdling, felling, haulage and sawing) so as to prevent the
development of unnecessary bottlenecks. At present, large amounts of
already-felled teak logs are not being exported because of, among other
things, the lack of adequate transport facilities. In this regard, GOB
and the Bank Group are preparing a possible Timber Distribution Project,
whose main objective will be the improvement of transport and other
facilities required to encourage exports of timber.
4.04    Other agricultural exports from Burma include, principally, pul-
ses, maize, animal feed, jute and rubber. These exports will grow slowly,
as increased domestic consumption is likely to absorb the bulk of produc-
tion increases. Other exports, however, such as non-fuel minerals (mainly
tin, tungsten and copper ores and concentrates) are expected to increase
significantly as a result of current and planned projects aimed at expand-
ing production capacity. Cement exports, too, are likely to grow con-
siderably over the medium term. These exports began in the mid-1970's in
accordance with GOB's policy of obtaining greater foreign exchange earn-
ings from its industrial sector, but they were possible only at the cost
of constraining domestic cement consumption which, on a per capita basis,
is among the lowest in the world. Ceilings have now been placed on
exportable amounts, but expected increases in installed productive
capacity are likely to be more than sufficient to meet domestic demand.



-25-
Imports
4.05    The major commodities imported to Burma over the period
1978/79-1981/82 were transport equipment, fertilizer, construction
materials and machinery, which represented 14%, 12%, 10% and 9% of
imported dry tonnage, respectively. The bulk of recent import growth has
come from these commodities, while general cargo and foodstuff imports
have grown slowly. Underlying this import composition pattern is GOB's
implicit policy to use the country's foreign exchange earnings primarily
to purchase the capital goods required for the implementation of economic
development plans, while restraining the importation of consumer goods.
In particular, fertilizer imports (urea, potash and phosphates), which are
required to sustain the production of high-yielding grain varieties, are
expected to continue to grow, albeit at a slower pace, as GOB aims at
self-sufficiency in urea production.
Container Traffic
4.06    Although the Port of Rangoon does not currently have adequate
facilities to handle containers, some container traffic has been arriving
anyway in recent years. It is estimated that some 1,000 TEUs were handled
in 1981/82, using the ships' own gear and conventional cargo handling
equipment on land. The medium-term forecast of container traffic
(Table 15) is based principally on the plans of the Burma Five-Star
Shipping Corporation (BFSSC) and other shipping lines. 1/ Long-term con-
tainer traffic forecasts have been prepared taking into account the con-
tainerizability of various commodities 2/ and the extent to which Burma's
1/ BFSSC is expected to carry about 80% of container traffic in the near
future.
2/ The major assumptions concerning the containerizability of traded
commodities are as follows. For imports: transport equipment (50%);
construction materials (30%); machinery (50%); foodstuffs (100%);
other general cargo (75%); fertilizer (nil); and coal and coke (nil).
For exports: rice (nil); pulses, maize and animal feed (50%); logs
(nil); sawn timber (30%); cement (nil); minerals (15%); jute and
rubber (25%); and general cargo (80%). By taking into account the
relative volumes of various commodities as projected in the medium
term, it has been estimated that "transport equipment, construction
materials and machinery" will be 41% containerizable; "logs and sawn
timber", 12%;.and export agricultural products, 45%. These percent-
ages also take into account the traffic's country of origin or des-
tination.



-26-
international trading partners 1/ and shipping lines are likely to take
advantage of the proposed container facilities to be constructed under the
proposed project at the Port of Rangoon. It is now estimated that about
18,700 import TEUs will be arriving in Rangoon in 1989/90. Since the
proposed container facility would be able to handle up to about 25,000
import TEUb per annum, it is capable of meeting the needs of container
traffic through the end of the decade. However, relevant experiences in
the region and elsewhere in the world indicate that container traffic
usually grows faster than reasonable forecasts would suggest, and BPC will
perhaps have to start planning in about four or five years the construc-
tion of additional container depots.
B. Port Capacity Considerations
4.07    At present, port capacity is limited by two broadly defined types
of constraints: the low average throughput per berth, and the difficul-
ties associated with the movement of vessels from the outer anchorage to
the port itself. The main reasons for low berth throughput are: (i) low
gang productivity and inadequate cargo handling equipment, which reduce
the speed of cargo loading and unloading; (ii) the idle periods imposed on
berthed ships when commodities to be exported are not readily available
for loading; (iii) the excessively long time that imported cargo remains
in the port area unclaimed by consignees, cluttering scarce storage and
working space required for the efficient functioning of the port; (iv) the
lack of container handling equipment and storage space; (v) the lack of an
adequate port lighting system; and (vi) disrepair of some of the pontoon
jetties. Concerning the movement of vessels along the port access chan-
nel, the major constraints are: (i) draft limitations which result in
delays imposed on ships as they must wait for high tides, and/or the
additional costs involved in lightering part of their cargo before berth-
ing; (ii) inadequate navigational aids; and (iii) the fact that many
essential port service vessels are subject to frequent breakdowns as they
approach the end of their economic lives.
4.08    Despite the above limitations, the port's management has been able
to run a generally efficient operation. There are now some indications,
however, that increasing traffic levels have begun to tax the capacity of
the existing facilities. The average occupancy of deepwater berths, which
1/ In 1981/82, the major trading partners with potential for container
traffic were Japan (564,000 tons), Singapore (290,000 tons), the
Netherlands (94,000 tons), Romania (85,000 tons) and West Germany
(69,000 tons). In 1981/82, the bulk of Burma's exports went to Asia
(55%), Africa (15%) and Europe (17%); the bulk of imports came from
Asia (55%), Europe (32%) and Africa (11%).



-27-
stood comfortably at about 60% in 1978/79 (Table 24), is estimated to have
risen to about 88% in 1981/82. This is also reflected in the average ship
waiting time, which was estimated at about 1.75 days per ship in
1981/82. 1/ The strains that are now beginning to appear will become more
severe if operational improvements do not take place as traffic continues
to grow. To avoid this potential problem, the proposed project offers a
least-cost solution that combines institutional/operational changes and
some capital investment (Chapter III). Successful implementation of the
project will, among other things, increase overall cargo handling rates,
and will enable the existing berths to carry the traffic expected to
materialize through the end of the decade, with berth occupancy remaining
around an acceptable 70%. If, on the contrary, cargo handling rates were
to remain at their current low levels, there would be a dramatic increase
in berth requirements to handle future traffic. Even if the long ship
waiting times associated with a high 90% occupancy were to be tolerated,
as many as 16 berths would be needed to handle the tonnage projected in
1989/90, i.e., four more than are currently available. If, alternatively,
a more acceptable (but by no means ideal) 80% occupancy were tolerated,
then 18 berths would be needed in 1989/90, which would require the con-
struction of six new berths between now and the end of the decade.
C. Economic Justification
4.09    The economic feasibility of the proposed project rests upon the
fact that it will allow the Port of Rangoon to handle, within acceptable
congestion levels, the increasingly larger traffic volumes expected to
develop through the end of the 1980's. The benefits identified in the
economic analysis largely reflect expected increases in port productivity
and throughput, which will result from improved cargo, including con-
tainers. These benefits, however, would not fully materialize unless port
operations are facilitated by improved labor productivity, service ves-
sels, dredging, lighting, navigational aids and pontoon jetties. Since
the actual (but by no means secondary) impact of these components may not
be easily quantified, they have not been explicitly included. The project
benefits that have been taken into account are:
1/ Actual ship waiting time has been estimated on the basis of all ships
arriving to Rangoon in the months of June and December 1981.
Appropriate corrections have been made to account for the time spent
by ships waiting for daylight, and the normal time spent to go from
the outer anchorage to the port itself. No specific correction has
been made to account for time spent by ships waiting for high tides.
The accuracy of the estimated average waiting time is also limited by
the size of the sample used, and some theoretical estimates (Table 24)
suggest a higher figure.



-28-
(a)  the avoided construction of new berths, which the proposed project
will render unnecessary; and
(b)  the avoided increases in ship turnaround time, reflecting the fact
that both average waiting time before berthing and average service
time at berth will be lower with the project than without it.
Among the benefits that have not been taken into account are the
reduction of cargo handling unit costs, the avoided maintenance of new
berths and the postponement of investment on new equipment, which would be
required immediately as an alternative to the vessel renovation program.
No attempt has been made to quantify the broad effect that improved and
modern port facilities will have on the level and composition of the
country's international trade. For all these reasons, the economic jus-
tification presented herein is necessarily conservative. The streams of
costs and benefits thus calculated (Table 16) 1/ yield an economic rate of
return (ERR) of 29%, which is acceptable.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
4.10    To illustrate the adverse effect on the ERR of possible departures
from the assumptions used in the estimation of the base case, the follow-
ing sensitivity analyses have been carried out:
Base Case                              29%
If project costs are 20% higher        22%
If project benefits are 20% lower    20%
If project costs are 20% higher
and project benefits are 20% lower  14%
If the materialization of benefits
is delayed by two years               16%
It may be concluded from this analysis that the project remains feasible
even under fairly adverse eventualities.
4.11    The risks associated with this project are not expected to be
greater than those found in similar projects in the region. Given Burma's
growth-oriented macroeconomic trend, potential deviations from the assump-
tions used herein are more likely to increase rather than decrease the
project's ERR. Such would be the case, for instance, if traffic were to
grow faster than is now envisaged, which would result in a
more-than-proportional increase in avoided ship waiting time. The
procurement of cargo handling equipment and vessels (which represent about
1/ The assumptions underlying the economic analysis are described in
Annex 8.



-29-
one-third of project base costs) is unlikely to suffer any major delays.
Some delay may occur, however, in the implementation of civil works and
the vessel renovation program, both of which require significant
managerial and technical inputs. To minimize these risks, steps are being
taken to secure timely land availability, as required for the phased
construction of the container yard (para 3.11); the capacity of shipyards
and drydocks available in Rangoon has been examined and found to be
adequate to carry out the proposed vessel renovation program (para 3.13);
and provisions have been made under the project for training and construc-
tion supervision.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01    Up to March 31, 1976, BPC's finances were controlled by GOB.
Annual budgets on revenue account and on capital account had to be
approved by GOB and all surplus cash generated by BPC was paid into the
Union Government Consolidated Fund (UGCF).
5.02    Effective April 1976 GOB began the implementation of revised
commercial guidelines for SEE's including BPC. Major features included
internal retention of earnings and the creation of working capital and
depreciation accounts. In lieu of the former contributions to UGCF, BPC
now makes annual contributions to GOB of 30% of its annual surplus.
Actual capital expenditure remains subject to the ceiling established in
the annual budget, the current 4-year plan and the 20 year plan approved
in 1972.
5.03    The principal activities of the accounting department are
(a) preparation and maintenance of accounting records; (b) preparation of
budget in respect of operational and capital receipts and expenditure;
(c) preparation of interim financial reports and annual financial state-
ments; (d) financial aspects of shipping agency functions. The department
is divided into two main sections: (i) administration and budget plan-
ning, and (ii) shipping agency and invoicing, each headed by a Deputy
Chief Accountant, who reports to the Chief Accountant. BPC follows
accrual principles of accounting.



-30-
B. Improvements in Accounting System
5.04    Prior to 1981, BPC used a system of punch card accounting machines
for accounting and statistical work. Under IDA Credit 671-BA, BPC set up
(in conjunction with Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC) which
utilized IDa Credit 958-BA) a joint computer center for electronic data
processing of financial data and management information. Now many
accounting functions are being carried out by the computer, the main ones
are: income analysis, inventory, costing of engineering jobs both for BPC
and PTC. A minicomputer system, also acquired under Credit 671-BA for
BPC's Traffic Department is being used for preparation of ship and cargo
manifests. It is expected that the proposed new Progress Coordination
Division will utilize and expand computer operations to meet management
planning needs, including refinement of the costing system (para 2.09).
C. Budgets and Audits
5.05    BPC must submit an annual budget to GOB for approval, which
includes the revenue, current expenditure and capital expenditure
estimates. This budget is prepared on a three-year moving average basis.
BPC also prepares a Four-Year Investment Program which is also subject to
GOB approval. Budgeting control is rigid; a pre-audit system is applied
which disallows any expenditure outside the approved budget without prior
sanction of the Board.
5.06    BPC accounts are subject to internal and external audit.  BPC
maintains a competent internal audit division of about 40 staff members
with four functions (i) expenditure audit; (ii) revenue audit;
(iii) payroll audit; and (iv) verification of stock audit. At present the
Deputy Chief Accountant for Administration and Budgeting heads this divi-
sion and works under the Chief Accountant, but reports directly to the
General Manager on matters related to internal audit functions. However,
it was felt that this procedure was not appropriate to insure independence
of audit reports. Therefore, it was proposed that as part of changes to
the organization structure of BPC, a new autonomous Division of Internal
Audit would be created, the head of which would report directly to the
General Manager (Chart II). BPC will effect this change by December 31,
1983 (para 2.07 and Chart II).
5.07    The external audit is carried out by the Central Account Office
(CAO) of GOB which has very wide powers. CAO reviews BPC's year-end
accounts and formally certifies the financial statements on a timely
basis. Its findings are reported to both MOTC and MOPF, as well as to
BPC. The standard of accounting is considered acceptable. Under Credit
671-BA, BPC has been forwarding copies of the audited financial statements
to IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year. At nego-
tiations, agreement was reached that: (i) BPC will continue to furnish
audited accounts and reports (including sources and application of funds



-31-
statements) within four months of the end of each fiscal year; and
(ii) appropriate corrective action will be taken regarding deficiencies
pointed out in the audit reports.
D. Tariffs
5.08    Rangoon.  The tariff structure meets the test of simplicity and
low cost of administration. Beginning April 1, 1974, the tariffs
applicable to Rangoon Port were revised and simplified; a 30% surcharge
was imposed on those tariff rates which are paid by ocean-going vessel
operators and which are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates; the surcharge was increased to 50% in 1977. It has been
suggested that BPC should explore with GOB the possibility of linking
vessel charges possibly to one leading major convertible currency (i.e.,
such as US dollar or Pound Sterling); this is being investigated by BPC.
Rangoon's tariff rates (apart from port dues) are generally considered
low in comparison with other ports in the region. The tariffs are some-
what related to the cost of providing individual services, but further
adjustments are needed.
5.09    BPC's main sources of revenue are: (a) traffic, e.g., port dues,
vessel dues (54% of total revenue in FY82), and (b) demurrage revenue (26%
of total revenue in FY82). Obviously BPC's financial viability is still
dependent on demurrage income to a certain extent. As this component of
the ports revenue is projected to decrease as operations become more
efficient, and since BPC is currently in an expansionary period with heavy
investment plans with the aim of increasing port efficiency to meet grow-
ing traffic demands, there are strong indications that tariff rates on
other services will have to be revised upwards if BPC is to remain
self-supporting on both current and capital accounts, as stipulated by
GOB. These assumptions are reflected in the financial projections
(para 5.17).
5.10    Outports.  The eight outports handle only about 15% of total port
traffic in Burma. Each Outport has its own individual tariff structure
and separate accounts for each are maintained by BPC. The tariffs have
remained largely unchanged since the 1940's. The major exception was in
1975 and 1977 when BPC directed the outports to impose the same surcharges
as for Rangoon (para 5.08). These changes had the general effect of
raising tariff charges of Outports by about 80% from their 1940's level.
The tariff structures at the Outports are all outmoded and bear little
relation to the operating costs of the respective outports. Under the
ADB/OPEC Outports projects, all the Outports' tariff structures are to be
simplified to the format existing at Rangoon and are to be adjusted ini-
tially to the tariff rates currently existing at Rangoon and subsequently
raised in stages in order that the outports cover all costs by 1987/88,



-32-
thus eliminating the present small element of cross-subsidization from
Rangoon Port. 1/
E. Past Performance
5.11    BPC's actual revenue and expenditure accounts for the period FY78
to FY82 are summarized below and detailed in Table 17. The balance sheets
for the corresponding period are shown in Table 18.
Actual Revenue and Expenditure
(in current Kyats million)
Annual
Growth
1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 Rate (%)
Total Revenues               66.5    75.7    103.3   105.3   157.1    24.0
Total Working
Expenses                  40.7    44.7       45.3    47.8    60.0    10.2
Depreciation                  9.0     8.9       8.7    11.6    16.2    15.8
Total Operating
Expenses                   49.7    53.6      54.0    59.4    76.2    11.2
Operating Revenues           16.8    22.1      49.3    45.9    80.9    48.1
Interest Charges             0.5      1.5       4.7     6.5      6.2    87.6
Total Expenses               50.2    55.1      58.7    65.9    82.4    13.2
Net Revenues                 16.3    20.6      44.6    39.4    74.7    46.3
Operating Ratio (%)          74.7    70.8      52.3    56.4    48.5        -
Rate of Return
on avg. Net Fixed
Assets (%)                 12.1    12.7      27.2    26.4    45.8        -
5.12    During this period, revenues had more than doubled and BPC
achieved a net surplus every year. Since no tariff increases were imple-
mented during this period, the revenue increases (average annual growth
rate of 24.0%) were mainly due to an increase in international traffic
throughput (para 4.01), and an increase in demurrage income which grew
from about K 8.6 million in FY78 to K 40.7 million in FY82 (average annual
growth rate of 47%). While demurrage income has improved port finances,
the effects of port congestion on operations must be considered and this
source of revenue should decline (para 2.25). Net revenues showed an
average annual growth rate of 46.3% p.a. Other income was generated
mainly from coal operations, rental income, and shipping agency operations
comprising about 25% of total revenues. The coal agency was transferred
from BPC to another Ministry on July 1, 1980.
1/ ADB Appraisal Report, Outports Project, May 1980.



-33-
5.13    Growth rates of some key cost items are shown as percentages of
working expenses and of total revenues respectively in Table 19. Total
expenses have grown at an average rate of about 13.2% p.a. Low growth in
labor costs (6.0% p.a.) has been partly due to BPC's current policy of
reducing its underutilized work force through attrition. Maintenance and
repair costs grew rapidly during the period (16.9% p.a.) because of BPC's
efforts to catch up on backlog of maintenance and repair needs. It is
expected that the growth rate of cost items would stabilize at about the
present level and similar annual percentage increases have been reflected
in the financial projections (para 5.17 et seq). Overall, the working
expenses were kept well under control by BPC and the operating ratio
decreased from 74.7% in FY78 to 48.5% in FY82. One main reason for very
favorable ratios in recent years and high increase in rate of return on
fixed assets is attributable to considerable increases in demmurage income
(para 5.12).
5.14    Depreciation charges have been low, which is another reason for
the favorable operating ratios but these charges are expected to increase
considerably in the future as the asset base expands. The last revalua-
tion of fixed assets took place in 1975. BPC is developing appropriate
methodology, satisfactory to IDA, for revaluation of its fixed assets in
operation and at negotiations has agreed to reflect revalued assets on its
balance sheet as of March 31, 1985. It was also agreed that revaluation
of BPC's fixed assets in operation will be carried out at least once every
four years thereafter. Nevertheless, after completion of the revaluation
in March 1985, IDA and BPC will review the frequency for such revaluation
to be undertaken in the future and also, on the basis of the findings of
the revaluation, review the appropriateness of the annual rate of return
of six per cent (6%) (para 5.21) on BPC's average net fixed assets in
operation to ascertain whether any adjustment is needed, keeping in view
the financial position of BPC at that time.
5.15    The financial position of BPC has been consistently sound.  BPC's
balance sheet for FY82 shows an accumulated reserve balance of K 299.0
million. About 47% of this reserve (K 140.7 million) is invested in
short-term GOB Savings Bonds earning a very low interest rate of 1% p.a.
(as allowed by GOB), which is even lower than the implicit GNP deflator
which has been about 3% p.a. during the period. The cash reserves will
contribute substantially to the local cost of the proposed project
although there are prior commitments (para 5.16). BPC's debt/equity ratio
has been consistently favorable and in the latest year FY82 was 0.2
(Table 18).
5.16    In 1980 a loan was agreed between GOB/BPC and ADB/OPEC Special
Fund for an Outports improvement project for the period 1980/81-1985/86
and is being currently executed by BPC. The total cost of the project
is US$45 million with a foreign exchange cost estimated at about US$22



-34-
million equivalent financed by ADB/OPEC Special Fund. The local currency
cost of about US$23 million equivalent is to be covered by BPC's own
resources. I/
F. Future Prospects
5.17    Table 20 shows forecast revenue and expenditure accounts of BPC
for the years FY83 to FY89 so as to cover the project implementation
period and one year of post-project operation. The assumptions used for
the financial projections are detailed in Annex 9. In conformity with the
practice followed by BPC, the projections do not provide for capitaliza-
tion of interest during construction period. The projections are sum-
marized below:
Forecast Revenues and Expenditure
(in current Kyats million)
Base
Year     ---Project Implementation Period---   Annual
Estimate                                            Growth
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 Rate (%) 1988/89
Total Revenues 148.8   149.9   181.4   221.6   276.2   288.7    14.2         302.2
Total Working
Expenses       66.1    72.6    79.1    88.2    97.0   107.0    10.1        117.8
Depreciation    15.5    22.4    38.8    62.4    76.7    81.9    39.5          81.6
Total
Operating
Expenses      81.6    95.0   117.9   150.6   173.7   188.9    18.3         199.4
Operating
Revenues       67.2    54.9    63.5    71.0   102.5    99.8        8.2     102.8
Interest
Charges         5.2     4.7     4.2    11.9    11.3    10.7    15.5         39.1
Total
Expenses       86.8    99.7   122.1   162.5   185.0   199.6    18.1        238.5
Net Revenues    62.0    50.2    59.3    59.1    91.2    89.1         7.5      63.7
Operating
Ratio (%)      54.8    63.3    65.0    68.0    62.9    65.4         -       66.0
Return on Avg. Net
Fixed Assets (%)
- Historical  31.5    17.8    11.8       8.2     9.7      8.8       -        9.1
- Revalued    17.4    10.6      7.0      5.9     6.9      6.0       -        5.5
1/ ADB Appraisal Report for Outports Project, 1980.
* First year of operation after completion of the project.



-35-
5.18    Operating revenues are based on BPC's estimated results for FY83.
Future traffic revenues have been projected to increase by about 5.5% p.a.
in line with traffic forecasts which are considered conservative and are
discussed in Chapter IV. Based on these forecasts increases of 20% in the
general tariff level would be required for each of the three financial
years 1985 to 1987 if BPC is to maintain a viable financial position. It
would be beneficial if regular tariff revision took place from time to
time in small installments to ensure that BPC generates sufficient inter-
nal funds to remain financially independent on both current and capital
accounts as desired by GOB. Demurrage income has been projected to reduce
during the period (para 2.25) and other income is expected to increase by
about 1.0 million Kyats per annum from 1982/83. Under these conditions
total revenues are conservatively expected to grow by about 14.2% p.a.
5.19    Expense forecast for the period FY83 to FY88 have been projected
using current prices. Labor costs are expected to increase by 8% p.a.;
maintenance and repair costs by 10% p.a.; and administration and other
costs by 13% p.a. and 10% p.a. respectively. Total working expenses would
have a growth rate of 10.1% p.a. Depreciation charges are expected to
increase considerably from K 15.5 million in FY83 to K 81.9 million in
FY88 (39.5% p.a. growth) as a result of asset-base expansion. Interest
charges increase by only 15.5% p.a. Thus overall total expenses are
expected to grow by 18.1% p.a. The operating ratio would increase from
54.8% in FY83 to 68.0% in FY86, dropping to 66.0% in FY89 the first year
of operation after the project implementation period, which is reasonable.
5.20    Forecast balance sheets for the period F83 to FY89 are shown in
Table 21. As the proposed project is implemented, the debt equity ratio
is expected to increase from 19:81 in FY83 to about 48:52 in FY88.
Despite the change, the forecast balance sheets indicate a strong finan-
cial position for BPC from both a liquidity and a capital structure stand-
point. BPC may require a short-term loan of K 35 million from a local
bank in FY85/86. The net fixed asset base is expected to expand from K
247.8 million at the beginning of FY83 to K 1,083.5 million by the end
of FY89. The rate of return on average net fixed assets for FY83 to FY89
based on historical costs are shown in para 5.17. Also, calculation of
rate of return on average net fixed assets after being revalued (rough
estimate based on indexing method), indicate that BPC would be able to
realize an average rate of six per cent (6%) p.a. for the years FY83 to
FY89.
5.21    At negotiations, agreement was reached for BPC to earn annually a
minimum 6% rate of return on its average net fixed assets in use revalued
periodically (see para 5.14). This should be adequate to provide BPC with



-36-
sufficient funds to meet its debt service and to provide for foreseeable
future capital needs.  The financial forecasts assume that the proceeds of
the credit would be relent to BPC at 8.5% p.a., which is in line with
current onlending rates in Burma and is estimated to be positive over the
loan period, with a repayment period of 20 years including 5 vears grace
period and that the foreign exchange risk would be absorbed by GOB.  The
terms of onlending were agreed to at negotiations.
5.22    Financial forecasts are most likely to be affected by variation in
operating costs and accordingly a sensitivity analysis was performed using
tariff levels currently in effect and increasing costs on the assumptions
outlined in Annex 9 by 10%; these indicate that BPC would require tariffs
increases in the order of about 25% for each of the three financial years
1985 to 1987 to cover its financial commitments over the project period.
G. Financial Resources
5.23    A summary of the investment program for the five-year period
1983/84 - 1987/88 is shown in Table 22. The period 1983/84 - 1985/86
covers the last three years of the Fourth Four-Year Plan and the two years
1986/87 and 1987/88 will form part of the Fifth Four-Year Plan.
5.24    Estimated spending for the five-year period during which the
proposed project is to be executed amounts to about K 1,200 million (in
current Kyats). The proposed IDA project accounts for about K 779 million
(65% of the total investment program for the period); the foreign exchange
component of the proposed project amounts to about K 400 million (33% of
the total investment program) and would be covered by the proposed IDA
Credit. Foreign exchange requirements for the other items in the program
will be provided by the ADB/OPEC Loan and BPC. The proposed investment
program is adequate and reasonable considering the financial resources of
the port. Agreement was reached with BPC at negotiations (i) on the
investment program for 1983/84 - 1987/88, and (ii) that BPC will not make
any investments in excess of US$3 million equivalent in any fiscal year
outside the agreed program without prior consultation with IDA.
5.25    The forecast sources and application of funds statement for the
five-year period FY84-FY88 of project implementation is shown in Table 23
and is summarized as follows:



-37-
Kyats            US$      %
(million)       (million)
Sources of Funds
For Investment Program
BPC internal cash generation                814            102       60
ADB/OPEC Loan                               117             15       9
Proposed IDA Credit                         400             50       30
Local Bank Loan                              35              4        1
Sources of Funds - Total                  1,366            171     100%
Required Funds
Capital Expenditure                       1,200            150      87
IDA Credit 671-BA  Repayment 1/              47              6       4
ADB/OPEC Loan Repayment 1/                   23              3        1
Local Loan and Debenture Repayment 1/        47              6       4
Payment to GOB 2/                           105             13       8
Change in Working Capital                   (56)            (7)      (4)
1,366            171     100%
1/ Repayment = Interest charge + principal repayment
2/ In lieu of contribution to UGCF; 30% of net revenues.
BPC would be able to provide about 60% of its total fund requirements out
of internally generated funds. The balance would be met mainly with funds
provided by IDA and ADB/OPEC, with the local bank loan providing 1% of
funds required.
5.26    Having regard to the satisfactory level of all financial
indicators (working, operating and debt/equity ratios) as reflected in the
financial projections and the tariff increases necessary for fulfillment
of the revenue covenants, the risks of failure to achieve forecast finan-
cial results are small provided that GOB grants the required tariff
adjustments. The proposed project is financially feasible and BPC's
financial position will continue to be sound.
H. Financial Aspects of Container Operations
5.27    Although BPC is already handling some container traffic, it does
not yet have a separate tariff for containers in its tariff structure.
Consultants have reviewed BPC's tariff structure and recommended in the
study that a tariff structure for container services should be provided by
the port. This would enable BPC to generate sufficient revenues to cover



-38-
the cost of container operations including the container yard. At nego-
tiations, agreement was reached that BPC will, by March 31, 1984 incor-
porate tariff rates for container services in its tariff structure which
will be based on the findings of the study.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
a) With GOB:
i) provision of additional rice storage as may be agreed with
IDA upon completion of the Grain Storage Study (para 2.26);
ii) the onlending terms of the proposed Credit to BPC (paras
3.09 and 5.21); and
iii) (a) availability of land necessary for the construction of
the container yard and c.f.s., and (b) appropriate arrange-
ments to relocate present occupants (para 3.11).
b) With BPC:
i) establishment of PCD, the Training Division and Internal
Audit Division by December 31, 1983 (paras 2.07, 2.09, 2.10
and 5.06);
ii) reduction of cargo dwell time in the port to a maximum of
25 days by December 31, 1984, 20 days by June 30, 1985 and
15 days by December 31, 1985 (para 2.25);
iii) to maintain the Project Implementation Unit headed by a
Project Manager and staffed with appropriate support staff
acceptable to IDA (para 3.10);
iv) that it will: (a) be responsible for the implementation
of the phased construction of the container yard and
c.f.s.; (b) procure through ICB materials and equipment for
the  container yard and c.f.s. which are not available in
Burma on conditions satisfactory to IDA; and (c) demolish
the buildings and level the land so that phased construc-
tion can be carried out in line with the schedule given in
Chart III (para 3.11);
v) the funds allocated for dredger overhaul would not be
disbursed prior to (a) agreement between BPC and IDA on the



-39-
practical capacity of the dredger; and (b) a technical,
financial and economic assessment of alternatives available
to BPC (para 3.12);
vi) appointment of experienced consulting engineers, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.14);
vii) compilation of port efficiency indicators to begin
January 1, 1984 and achievement of efficiency targets
indicated (in Tables 6 and 7) by 1984/85 and 1989/90
(para 3.18);
viii) (a) furnishing audited accounts within four months of the
end of each fiscal year; and (b) taking appropriate action
on exceptions raised by the auditors (para 5.07);
ix) earning 6% annual rate of return on its average net fixed
assets in operation revalued by March 31, 1985 (paras 5.14
and 5.21);
x) (a) the investment program for 1983/84 to 1987/88; and
(b) not making any investment of more than US$3 million
equivalent in any fiscal year outside the agreed program
without prior consultation with IDA (para 5.24); and
xi) incorporating by March 31, 1984 tariff rates for container
service into BPC's tariff structure (para 5.27).
6.02    The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement should be a condition
of credit effectiveness (para 3.09).
6.03      Based on the agreements reached on the matters indicated above,
the proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$50
million equivalent to the Government of Burma.



-40-
Annex I
Page 1 of I
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Proposed Progress Coordination Division
1.        The main functions of this division would be as follows:
(a) collection, processing and maintenance of necessary data and
information for the Planning Steering Committee;
(b) maintenance of Port Statistics related to Port planning;
(c) coordination between individual departments within the Corpora-
tion and with other related economic organizations regarding
port planning;
(d) provision of expert opinions on economic, technical and opera-
tional matters;
(e) provision of services for effective operation of Management
Information System (mostly computer based); and
(f) provision of secretarial services to the Planning Steering
Committee.
2.        For the effective functioning of the Division, the Divisional
Manager (a Port Engineer) will be assisted by an economist, a coordinator,
two statisticians and four clerical staff.
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



-41-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Existing Dockyard Facilities - Rangoon
1.      BPC has dockyard facilities available for maintenance and con-
struction of its service vessels, harbor craft, and navigation aids at
Theinbyu Street dockyard, Angi dockyard on the South bank of the river,
Setsan dry dock in Pazundaung Creek, and the Kings Bank mooring main-
tenance yard. These are briefly described below:
A. Theinbyu Street Dockyard
2.      The dockyard has six slipways:
No. 1     150 - 200 tons          No. 3     15-20 tons
No. 2     150  tons              No. 4      20-25 tons
No. 6     150  tons               No. 5     15-20 tons
Winches for each of these slipways are in good or fair condition, but the
slipways suffer from heavy siltation and need regular dredging or/and
sluicing at low water.
3.      The yard has extensive workshops for maintenance and manufacture
of parts required for engines, hull, and ancillary equipment. The shops
cover the following trades: electrical, welding, carpenter, pattern
making, steel plate rolling and shaping, machine fitting, foundry, black-
smith and chain testing and annealing.
4.      The equipment available in the shops is generally adequate for
requirements and will be supplemented by provision of additional equipment
provided under the proposed project. Major items are: mobile cranes,
water jet and sand surface preparation equipment, aluminium welding equip-
ment, oxyacetylene producing plant, electric generators and 100 ton
hydraulic press.



-42-                            Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
B. Angi Dockyard
5.      The yard is mostly used for construction and repair of wooden
craft and hc- one slipway of 100 ton capacity and two of 35 ton capacity,
the latter being linked by a transfer system to construction bays for
craft with a maximum 60 ft length.
6.      Workshops are adequate for the work to be done under the proposed
project and work can be carried out at Theinbyu street for particular
requirements, as necessary.
7.      The yard is not connected to the main town electrical supplies and
power is supplied by a variety of generating plants.
C. Setsan Dry Dock
8.      This is the only available dry dock in Burma and is some 50 years
old. It is capable of taking vessels up to 220 ft long and 45 ft beam at
11.5 ft light draft. It can take all existing and proposed vessels owned
by BPC and is in structurally sound condition. A new 4" water pump, and
one of the mobile cranes, being provided under the project will improve
the dry dock's usefulness and the water/sand injected jet equipment
provided under the proposed project will considerably improve hull
preparation for painting.
D. King Bank
9.      This is a small facility for repairs to mooring facilities and
will not be used for any of the works proposed under the project.
10.     Alternative and more modern facilities for construction of buoys
are available adjacent to the plate shop at Theinbyu Street Dockyard; this
area is served by an overhead travelling crane and will be used for the
buoys to be renewed under the project.



-43-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Improvements to Cargo Handling Productivity,
and Throughput for General Cargo
A. Productivity and Throughput
1.      The dry cargo traffic currently handled in the port, together with
the estimated tonnages for 1985 and 1990 are given in Tables 13 and 14;
and the estimated tonnage of cargo expected to be handled in containers is
in Table 15. The berth occupancy is presently about 88%.
2.      The objective of the proposed project is to enable BPC to handle
the increased tonnage to 1990 over the existing twelve general cargo
berths at an acceptable berth occupancy rate, with new construction
limited to provision of a container yard behind the Brooking Street
Wharves 1 and 2 (Chart IV). Additional storage area, also behind the
Brooking Street Wharves, will be allocated to the storage of timber log
exports and there may be need to increase the available shed storage for
rice exports at Ahlone and Hteedan.
3.      The increase in productivity and annual tonnages to be handled
over the existing berths will be achieved by:
(a) acquisition of additional cargo handling equipment to expedite and
improve operations and increased cargo unitization;
(b) improved lighting to working areas;
(c) reduction of cargo dwell time in the port;
(d) centralized control of cargo handling operations;
(e) clearance of land within the general port areas; and
(f) reduction in delays in delivering rice and timber export cargos to
ships berthed in the port.
4.      These methods of increasing productivity are discussed further
below:



-44-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
(a) Acquisition of Additional Equipment and Cargo Unitization
(i) Additional equipment provided under the proposed Qroject will
enable the existing gangs to increase productivity in unload-
ing break bulk general cargo, particularly the availability
of additional fork lift trucks for use in the ship's hold and
on the berth. Increased palletization of cargo in the ship's
hold will also improve the unloading rate and will avoid
double handling in moving cargo from the ship's side to the
sheds, as well as in shed storage and delivery to consignee.
(ii) New quay, mobile and tower cranes will expedite log handling
and handling of break bulk general cargo in the open storage
areas. Details of the additional equipment are given in
Table 9 and part B of this annex.
(b) Improved Lighting
An important factor in increasing overall throughput of break bulk
general cargo will be improved performance by the night shift
through improving port lighting. The current standard of lighting
is inadequate, and poor maintenance has rendered many available
light fixtures inoperative. Improvement of lighting to a satis-
factory standard for operations will be achieved by provision of
new modern lighting fittings and maintenance of those existing.
Appropriate agreement to this effect have been obtained from BPC.
(c) Reduction of Cargo Dwell Time
An essential feature for increased throughput of any port is the
regular and speedy movement of cargo from transit sheds to provide
space for new cargo to be unloaded from ships. A constant and
rapid flow of cargo to the consignee is the objective with the
cargo remaining in the port only 10-15 days as a maximum. Cur-
rently the dwell time of cargo in the port is 30 days and this is
unacceptable, which BPC recognizes. BPC have undertaken to reduce
dwell time to 25 days as a first step by December 31, 1984, and
subsequently to 20 days by June 30, 1985 and 15 days by Decem-
ber 31, 1985. Lack of adequate storage space and transport equip-
ment available with the consignees appear to be major constraints.
As a first step BPC has initiated a survey of the major problems
associated with moving goods from the port area, and, through
MOTC, will initiate appropriate actions to ensure expeditious
removal of cargos by other corporations. BPC will require assis-
tance from higher authorities to ensure acceptance of cargo by
state corporations. An appropriate condition to this effect is
included in the credit conditions. Provision of necessary storage



-45-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
and transport facilities to importing corporations may be neces-
sary depending upon the outcome of BPC's survey which is currently
underway.
(d) Operating Control Center
Centralized control of operations will involve provision of an
appropriate existing building by BPC and provision of magnetic
wall boards for recording of statistics as well as telephone
and/or radio communications to all operating areas and to corpora-
tions supplying export cargo. The control center will cover all
operating functions from early information on ship's cargo
manifests to delivery of cargo to consignee. Adequate records of
storage and delivery statistics must be provided to management
daily. The control center will assist in providing better coor-
dination of the supply of export cargos, berthing of ships and
allocation of labor and equipment to the required locations.
(e) Clearance of Port Areas
Clearance of scrap and unnecessary items from the storage areas
of the port will permit full usage of available space. Some port
sheds in the main port area were leased to others, but these
leases have been cancelled.
(f) Reduction in Export Cargo Delivery Delays
The two major export commodities, rice and timber, suffer undue
delays in loading ships through failure to maintain an adequate
delivery rate to the loading gangs. Waiting time in 1980/81 for
gangs handling rice and timber exports amount to some 20% and 27%
of total gang hours, respectively, and of this delay, 53% and 78%
was due to awaiting cargo. Rice is handled at the upstream berths
and timber at Brooking Street Wharves.
(i) Rice. The causes of delay are complex. In the first place,
shipping is done f.o.b. so that the consignee arranges for
the vessels arrival, and inadequate notice is received by the
AFPTC (the export corporation for rice) and BPC. This could
be overcome by having adequate stocks at the port but this
again is complicated by the number of varieties and qualities
exported, and the need to limit the storage period if remill-
ing of the rice is to be avoided. However, the Consultants,
(Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners) recommend, and the Associa-
tion agrees, that 18 days storage should be available for
loading and provision of an additional 12,800 sq.yds. storage
is necessary to achieve this. Such provision is however



-46-                           Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
subject to the results of the Grain Storage Study currently
being undertaken financed under the UNDP Umbrella II program.
The results of the study will be reviewed with IDA. If
shipping was c.i.f. rather than f.o.b., storage of suitable
qualities and varieties of rice for export would be
simplified, and it is strongly recommended that the Govern-
ment investigate this alternative. If the latter procedure
was adopted additional storage space may not be necessary
or may be reduced. The additional storage referred to above
is in addition to that already approved (11,600 sq. yds.)
for construction by AFPTC.
(ii)  Timber.  Timber exports are in the form of logs and sawn
scantlings. Improved handling of sawn timber will be
achieved by provision of additional fork lift trucks, mobile
and tower cranes. For improved log handling it is necessary
that additional stock piling on land is achieved by
(a) moving floating log rafts ashore (6T Quay cranes), and
(b) early delivery of logs supplied by land to the stock
pile. Loading from a stock pile on shore is much faster than
handling from log rafts in the river. Under the proposed
project, additional mobile cranes and front-end log loaders
are provided; and additional open storage, to give a total of
3.5 acres, (Chart IV) will be made available. These measures
will improve the handling rate for timber logs and sawn
timber. A marketing and distributing study is currently
being initiated by GOB and IDA to be financed by the UNDP
Umbrella III Program which would also review timber handling
procedures near the port area.
5.      The improvements to cargo handling rates and annual throughputs to
be attained are set forth in Tables 6 and 7 for 1984/85 and 1989/90,
respectively. Agreement was reached on achieving these targets.
6.      Table 5 shows the berth requiremer.ts to handle forecast traffic
1984/85 and 1989/90; the allocation of berths made to each type of cargo,
results in berth occupancies of 70% and 72%, respectively, which are
acceptable. Tables 6 and 7 were calculated on a 65% berth occupancy, so
that the required handling rates to achieve the required throughput will
be marginally smaller than indicated in Table 5. However, the Association
considers that actual berth allocation will be considerably improved
compared to that shown in Table 5, because the containerized cargo tonnage
in 1985 and 1990 is expected to exceed the 123,000 and 346,000 tons
forecast containerized cargo, on which the berth allocation has been
based. A feeder vessel type container service with backup space as
proposed (Annex 4) could handle about 425,000 tons per annum.



-47-                           Annex 3
Page 5 of 6'
B. Additional Equipment Provision and Utilization for Improvement to
Annual Berth Throughput and Port Capacity
7.      In order to achieve the improvements in productivity described in
section A above, the equipment detailed in Table 9 will be provided under
the proposed project. The existing equipment available to BPC (Table 2),
and that to be supplied are described below:
Quay Cranes and        Four of the existing 3T/5T quay cranes are to
Tower Cranes           be overhauled and US$60,000 for spares is
included. The remaining old quay cranes should
be scrapped. Two 6T- Quay cranes and four 6T Tower
cranes are provided for log handling and for use
in handling break bulk cargo on the open storage
areas.
Log Loader             One additional front-end log loader and attachment is
to be provided to give a total of three available.
Mobile Cranes    (a)  Existing
BPC have one-40T (Second IDA Port Project), two-25T
(16 yrs. old) and ten-13T (Second IDA Port Project)
mobile cranes available and operating. There are also
also fourteen 7 ton capacity mobile cranes belonging
to BPC, which are over 16 years old. These are being
scrapped as maintenance become excessive and spares
more difficult to obtain. One operating and two
training cranes can be assumed available from the
16-year old cranes.
(b) Proposed
One 30T crane is to be supplied as a replacement
for one of the existing 25T cranes which is over-aged
and one additional 30T crane is required for the
general cargo storage areas and for containers until
the new yard is available. The requirement for 13 ton
capacity cranes is evaluated as follows:



-48-                            Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
Cargo Type            Number of Cranes Required
Fertilizer, Rubber                 1
Jute                               2
General Cargo Storage Areas        7
Timber                             4
Total                             14
Number available                  10
Thus, two 30T and four 13 T capacity cranes are to
be supplied.
Fork Lifts Trucks
The basic requirement for 3-ton or 4-ton fork lift trucks is
calculated as follows:
(a) general cargo berths and sheds          6 berths  x 6   =   36
(b) general cargo open storage areas        6 berths  x 3   =   18
(c) for use in holds of:
(i) general cargo vessels           4 vessels x 4)
(ii) timber vessels                  1 vessel  x 3')      19
(d) sawn timber handling                    1 berth   x 4         4
Total :                                         77
Extra to cover maintenance and repairs :        8
Total requirement :                            85
Available Fork Lift Trucks in the Port are:
(a)   40 - 3 Ton Toyota Diesels (supplied by Second IDA Port Project)
(b)   12 - 3 Ton Toyota Electric
(c)    7 - available for use from 11 older models
59 - Total
The minimum requirement is therefore for 26 additional forklift trucks and
it is proposed these will be 4,000 kg capacity. 32 are to be supplied
including an allowance for replacement of these currently considered
available from older machines. Training requirements will be supplied
from the existing older machines. Two 15T and five-8T FLT's are already
available for heavier loads.
Tractors and Trailors
The existing 5T tractors and trailers are adequate for require-
ments. Two additional lOT capacity are to be supplied for heavier loads.
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



-49-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Proposed Container Yard
1.      The new container yard is to be constructed behind Brooking Street
No. 2 Wharf (Chart IV and BP1). The area to be developed is some 11.3
acres and is adjacent to the proposed timber yard to be used for log
storage (3.5 acres). No. 2 Brooking Street Wharf will be the main con-
tainer berth and No. 1 Brooking Street Wharf, the main timber berth.
2.      Over 50% of the required area is currently occupied by the
Construction Corporation, MOC, the Irrigation Department (Ministry of
Agriculture), and Customs Department of (Ministry of Finance). Each of
these departments has numerous offices, warehouses, and/or houses on the
land they occupy, which will have to be demolished and the land cleared
prior to starting the new development. There are also a number of houses
and godowns to be demolished, which are currently occupied by BPC as well
as the Port health clinic.
3.      Assurances have been received from the Government that all the
existing occupants have been served notice to vacate and the land has been
handed over to BPC. Clearance of personnel and provision of alternative
accommodation (offices and housing) is essential prior to demolition of
existing buildings, and whereas the land has been handed over, it will
take time for the different steps to be accomplished and the site to be
cleared. It is anticipated that in fact the land will become available
for demolition and clearance by sections and assurances have been obtained
that BPC has arranged for demolition and clearance as these sections
become available and that demolition will be completed not later than
December 1985. Clearance of Phase I (Chart IV) will be by June 1984,
Phase II by December 1984 and Phase III by December 1985. Construction
will, therefore, be undertaken on a phased basis commencing as soon as
sufficient area is available to start work and proceeding as suitable
parcels of the land are cleared, to completion; it is estimated that the
work will be undertaken in the three phases referred to above (Chart IV)
and on this basis the work would require two years commencing mid-1984 and
is expected to terminate around mid-1986 and in any event not later than
December 1986. Given the need to construct the yard in phased sections,
construction will best be done using the Construction Corporation (CC) to
do the work on an agreed contractual basis with BPC as executing agents.
4.       It is important that use of the yard for container operations is
available as speedily as possible as the existing arrangements are not



-50-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
adequate for handling container traffic. The proposed phased construction
program will avoid bottlenecks and remove the constraints inhibiting
development of container traffic in Rangoon, and will enable BPC to accom-
modate increased container traffic at the earliest practical date;
capacity can be further increased as additional areas become available,
thus obtaining maximum operational efficiency from the development.
5.      The new container yard when fully completed will permit about
25,000 TEU 1/ imports per annum to be handled and it is anticipated that
50% of these will be exported full and 50% as empties, at any rate up to
1990. The consultants estimate container traffic in 1990 as 18,700 TEU
with a high forecast of 23,000 TEU. If container traffic quickly develops
up to the maximum capacity of the container yard, as has been the
experience elsewhere, the total tonnage handled at the container wharf
will be about 425,000 t and will contribute significantly to the overall
improvement in throughput over the existing wharves. Further the number
of containers to be handled during 1985 is expected to significantly
increase compared to the total forecast by the Consultants' (Sir Alexander
Gibb & Partners) study (2,500 TEU).
6.      Civil works involved, in addition to about 40,000 sq.yds. paving
with appropriate drainage and foundations, will be a 5,500 sq.yds.
prefabricated steel frame c.f.s. A main drain crossing the site will also
have to be rebuilt as a reinforced concrete culvert. Lighting and elec-
trical installations with provision for refrigerated containers are also
included.
7.      Until the new container yard is available, containers are being
handled by 30T mobile crane and 15T forklift trucks. They are emptied on
the open storage area behind Sule Pagoda berths and transferred empty to
Brooking Street Wharves for reloading (but may in practice be reloaded at
any of the Sule Pagoda berths). These are interim make-shift measures
and, therefore, it is essential that the container yard is brought into
operation at the earliest possible date for more efficient container
handling. No full container loads for direct delivery to consignee are
being received at present.
8.      When the new container yard provided under the project is avail-
able, feeder vessel services, with self unloading ability are expected to
develop. Delivery from ship side to yard will be by tractor and trailers,
and handling in the yard by two 35T rubber-tyred gantry cranes and a
15-ton forklift truck for empty containers. Unstuffing of containers at
1/ TEU = twenty foot equivalent units (2x40 ft containers plus 20 ft
containers).



-51-
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
the c.f.s. will be by 2.5 ton short mast electric forklifts. A 36-ton
forklift with a top loading spreader will also be provided to handle full
40 ft containers in case of breakdown of other equipment.
9.      Equipment to be supplied (Table 9) and the prefabricated steel
frame for the c.f.s. building will be procured by International Competi-
tive Bidding. BPC will also arrange for supply of construction materials
not available in Burma by ICB and this procurement, together with any
additional equipment (this would be minimal equipment of specialized
nature) required for expeditiously completing the construction work, will
be financed under the project. The prefabricated c.f.s. building will be
erected under supervision of a supervisor supplied by the manufacturer by
local labor supplied under arrangements satisfactory to IDA.
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



-52-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Renewal and Renovation - Marine Works
A. Service Vessels and Navigation Aids
1.      As shown in Table 4, all BPC's service vessels are over 20 years
old except for the harbor tugs "Konbaung" and "Tayza" - 16 years old. The
whole fleet can be considered in need of replacement and except for use
in close in coastal waters cannot be considered seaworthy. However, this
is not financially practicable at the present time and measures to prolong
the life of the existing vessels by about ten years have therefore been
agreed.
2.      Considerable renovation is also required to the navigation aids
which are essential to the operation of Rangoon as a major port, and for
the use of Burmese coastal waters by international shipping. Details of
existing navigation aids are given in Table 3.
3.      All of these vessels and the buoys will have to be repaired at
times when they can suitably be taken out of service, and repairs in BPC's
own yards will be most suitable in these circumstances irrespective of
the transportation problems involved in preparing them for repairs in
other yards.
4.      The work to be undertaken under the project to improve the
availability of service vessels, harbor craft and navigation aids is as
follows:
(a) provision by international competitive tender of:
i) a new oil rig supply type vessel to serve as the new
lighthouse tender and as an emergency sea-going tug; and
ii) a new 90-ft unmanned light ship;
(b)  construction by BPC of 8 new mooring buoys and two 1.5 m3 grab
dredgers and 4-125 m3 self-propelled hopper barges;
(c) renovation by BPC of:



-53-
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
i) a buoyage vessel;
ii)  a fire fighting vessel;
iii)  a survey vessel;
iv)  16 mooring buoys;
v) 10 navigation buoys; and
vi)  two light floats.
B. Harbor Craft
4.      BPC's fleet of minor vessels consists of 13 heave-up boats for
maintaining moorings of floating pontoon wharves, mooring buoys, etc., 24
launches, 8m-20m long, 3 work barges and 2 water boats. Much of the fleet
is beyond its normal useful life and it is proposed to renovate the fol-
lowing minor vessels in BPC's yards:
(a) 3 survey launches,
(b) 2 hydraulic measurement launches,
(c) 3 general purpose steel launches,
(d) 2 general purpose wooden launches,
(e)  2 civil engineer's work barges, and
(f) 4 heave-up boats.
5.      All necessary steel plate and sections, engines, general fittings
and paint will be supplied through ICB to enable BPC to carry out the
construction and renovation work described in sections A and B above.
C. Ancillary Equipment
6.      In addition to the renewal and renovation works, the following
ancillary equipment will be supplied under the project; the new workshop
equipment will further enhance BPC's capability to carry out the renewal
and renovation program. It will be procured by ICB.
(a) A communication network for manned lighthouses and the manned
lightship - 300 mile range high frequency radio.
(b) Workshop equipment:
i) oxyacetylene making equipment,



-54-
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
ii) high pressure water lance with sand injection for hull paint-
ing preparation,
iii) aluminium welding equipment,
iv) mobile cranes, electrical generators, and equipment for BPC's
dockyards and machine shops.
(c) Position finding equipment:
A printout facility for the existing position finding equipment
to be fitted in the new survey launch, so that it can more accurately
check the dredging carried out by the dredger TNY. A maintenance equip-
ment set for the Autocarta (Decca) system on the dredger, the equipment on
the survey launch and for the master positioning land units, and spares
for all the existing equipment on a scale to be recommended by Decca Ltd
and approved by BPC and IDA.
7.      Ancillary equipment for the renovation of navigation aids includes
provision of 25 new lanterns for the buoys and lightships (light floats).
8.      BPC's staff and dockyard facilities are adequate to carry out the
program of vessel renovation outlined and will be strengthened by provi-
sion of the new workshop equipment supplied under the proposed project.
Details of the existing dockyard facilities are given in Annex 2.
D. Dredger Overhaul
9.      The self-propelled suction dredger Thaung Naing Yay (TNY) was
built in 1960 in Holland and overhauled in 1979. It is capable of main-
taining the inner bar channel at 15 ft which will require up to 390,000
cu.yds. dredging per annum and, if the outer bar deteriorates or changes
its present location as has happened previously, it can dredge the addi-
tional 600,000 cu.yds per annum that will be required for maintenance of
15 ft depth. The capacity of the dredger TNY is about 1.25 million
cu.yds. p.a. Dredging takes place during the dry season (November -
March) and with the use of the position finding equipment supplied pre-
viously the dredging will be more effective in that it can be concentrated
in the width of the required channel. Dredging can be continuous if
necessary as the dredge can readily locate its position both by day and by
night when using the position finding equipment. The dredger has not
however demonstrated its full effectiveness todate due to lack of a
stand-by crew and the lack of use of the position finding equipment,
although since November 1982 it has been working twelve-hour shifts with a
good production record although the position finding equipment was not
fitted. It is necessary before additional expenditure on the dredger is
committed, to demonstrate over two full seasons of continuous dredging,



-55-
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
after November 1983 that TNY can carry out the necessary maintenance work.
BPC should provide standby crew including officers to ensure continuous
operation of the dredger over two shifts or for the necessary time to
achieve required production. Based upon the results of this test period a
technical, financial and economic evaluation of the options open to BPC,
including purchase of a larger dredger should be made. Agreement to this
effect was obtained at negotiations. It is believed at this time that
TNY, properly manned and fitted with the position finding equipment, will
prove adequate for the task and a major overhaul about 1987/88 would be
justified. Accordingly the sum of US$4.05 million is included in the
project for this purpose but, except for a sum not exceeding US$150,000 on
essential spares to maintain the dredger in operation, this sum is only to
be expended, following review by BPC and IDA of the dredger's performance
over two continuous dredging seasons and the evaluation of options open to
BPC as mentioned above. BPC explained however that, in their view, the
work already in hand by TNY since November 1982 can be considered as part
of the two season test, and accordingly an additional two full seasons
dredging from November.1983 might not be necessary. It was agreed that
the appropriateness of any dredging results submitted by BPC would be
agreed between BPC and IDA when such results were available.
Source: BPC/Consultants/Bank staff
November 1982



-56-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Reconstruction of Pontoon Jetties
Tank Pontoon Jetties
1.        There are nine operational tank pontoon-type jetties including
the Hteedan coal wharf (470 ft) and the Port Health Station (500 ft). The
other seven are foreshore jetties. Each consists of a 40 ft. wide steel
deck supported on individual 40ft x 10ft x 5ft tanks at 14ft centers.
Tanks can be removed individually for repairs.  The condition of the two
larger jetties built in 1955 and 1960 is generally poor. Material for
replacement of the shell of 105 tanks is included in the project for
US$1.7 million. The framework of the tanks and pontoons previously
repaired by BPC have generally been found to be in good condition.
Pontoon Jetties
2.        These consist of a standard pontoon 120ft x 20ft and there are a
total of 42 pontoons forming 33 jetties in the port. Eight were replaced
under the Second IDA Port Project. Most are used for foreshore jetties
but a few serve port departmental operations. Twelve pontoons will be
renewed under the project at a cost of US$1.0 million.
Bridges
3.        Access to the floating jetties is by wooden decked steel truss
bridges.  57 bridges serve the 42 operational jetties.  Eight were renewed
under the Second IDA Port Project and 24 will be renewed under this
project at a cost of US$1.2 million.
Sponsons
4.        These are generally 30ft x 20ft x 5ft tanks which support the
floating end of some of the access bridges. There are 34 sponsons in use
and eight were replaced under the Second IDA Port Project; 21 more spon-
sons now need repair at a cost of US$500,000.
5.        Repairs consist mainly of replacement of the steel shell; as
previously stated, the internal frames are normally in good condition.
BPC can and have previously carried out renewal of these jetty components



-57-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
at the Chief Civil Engineers Yard and work inspected there by the mission
was satisfactory. For mooring of the floating berths 100 new sets of
1-1/4" mooring chains and shackles are included at a cost of US$200,000.
Suitable marine paint and steel plate and sections will be the main items
supplied and the foreign exchange required amounts to 52% or a total of
US$2.4 million.
Source: Bank Staff
November 1982



-58-
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
1.        Training needs were extensively discussed with BPC and the
following areas have been identified to be covered under the proposed
project.
Training Overseas
Per
Man-      Total
Total      month   Estimated
No. of                 Man-         Cost      Costs
Training Activity           Personnel    Months   months        (US$)       US$
Computer (Operation and
Maintenance                   2            6         12
Computer (Programming)          2            6         12
Computer (System Analyst)       2            6         12
Dredge Master                   2            6         12
Tug Master                      2            3          6
Civil Engineering and
Marine Works                  2            6         12
Port Operations and
Management                    2            4          8
Container Operations            2            4          8
Finance and Port
Economics                     2            6         12
Instructors - Operation,        2)
and Management                 )           4         16
Instructors - Technical         2)
Aluminium Welding               2            4          8
Lofting 1/                      2            6         12
Foundry Operation               2            4          8
138       4,250    586,500
1/ Lofting covers the layout on full scale of the shape and dimensions
of sections of a ship under construction originally done in the
loft over a sail shop.
Training in Burma
Dredging Crew                   1            4          4
Container Documentation         1            8          8
12     13,500   162,000



-59-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Overseas Management Visits
Management/Technology
(Senior Port Officials)        8            4        32       3,750   120,000
Total Cost:                                                             868,500
Rounded to:      870,000
2.        To update BPC'S training needs for equipment and training aids,
the following list of items have been identified:
(a) 16 mm movie projector
(b) Movie camera
(c) Overhead Projector
(d) Slide Projector
(e) Screens
(f) Magnetic Board
(g) Epidia scope
(h) Video Cassette Recorder/Player Set, and
(i) Miscellaneous: Demonstration panels,
model engines and cargo handling
equipment, reference material etc.
Total cost of these items is estimated at:                   170,000
Contingency                                                   50,000
Total Training needs provided in the proposed project 1,090,000
3.      In addition to the overseas training, BPC will undertake local
training of skilled and semi-skilled labor together with training of
suitable instructors. A Plan of Action for local training will be
prepared by BPC not later than September 30, 1984.
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



-60-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 5
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Details of the Economic Justificatjon
A. General
(i) Not all benefits have been included in the analysis. Of the
benefits resulting from improved cargo handling and from the
provision of container facilities, those included here are the
avoided ship turnaround time and the avoided construction of
new berths; those not included here are the avoided maintenance
of new berths and the reduced cargo handling unit costs.
Benefits resulting from other project components have not been
explicitly included in the analysis because they may not be
accurately quantified; these proposed components are, neverthe-
less, indispensable to the port's efficient operation and
indeed to the project's successful implementation. The ERR
thus calculated is, therefore, an under-estimation of the
project's true ERR. Since the calculated ERR is acceptable,
then the project is a fortiori feasible.
(ii) A fifteen-year project horizon (regarding the stream of costs
and benefits) has been used, which is in line with the fact
that the weighted average life of the proposed investment is
about twenty years.
(iii) The official Kyat/US Dollar rate of exchange, which was
K 8.0096 per US Dollar at the end of September 1982, has been
applied in the case of tradeable goods. However, a countrywide
Standard Conversion Factor of 0.8 has been used for the
non-tradeable component of local costs.
B. Costs
(1) The share of non-tradeable goods (mainly labor and various
construction materials such as gravel and bricks) has been
estimated at 90% of local costs in the case of all project
components, except for the construction of container
facilities, where the relevant figure is 70%.
(ii) In addition to the standard exclusion of import duties from the
economic analysis, a further correction has been made to deduct
the tax component of local costs. No accurate estimate of such
tax component is possible, however, as available information is



-61-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
limited and complex, and different taxation systems apply to
different types of entities. For instance, the production of
construction materials in the private sector is subject to
business profit tax, while the cooperative and public sectors
must pay commodity and service taxes. In the face of these
difficulties, the assumption has been made that the tax element
included in the project's local cost is 15% across the board,
based on the fact that the tax effort ratio in Burma is about
10% and that tax rates are higher than average in the case of
non-agricultural products, which are precisely the inputs to
this project.
(iii) The annual cost of operation and maintenance (including spare
parts) of cargo handling equipment has been estimated at 7% of
capital costs, including 70% foreign exchange component.
C. Benefits
(i) Commodity-specific analyses of major components of interna-
tional trade suggest that aggregate traffic is likely to grow
at a rate of about 5% per annum over the medium term. This
estimate is consistent with GOB's recently renewed efforts to
set the economy on a growth-oriented course, but also takes
into account the long period of economic stagnation that ended
in the mid-1970's.
(ii) Benefits attributed to the project have not been allowed to
grow beyond 1989/90 (despite expected continued traffic
increases thereafter), because in this year traffic is expected
to reach the operating capacity of the proposed investment.
(iii) It is estimated that about 80% of Burma's international trade
is carried by vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star
Shipping Corporation, or by tramps. For this portion of traf-
fic the entire amount of avoided ship turnaround (waiting and
service) time is considered to accrue directly as a benefit to
the Burmese economy. As regards the remaining 20% of the
traffic, which is carried by foreign liners, the assumption
has been made that congestion-related surcharges normally
imposed by conferences when congestion develops, would be of a
similar order of magnitude as increases in ship waiting time;
thus, avoided waiting (but not service) time is considered to
accrue as a benefit to the Burmese economy. The financial
running cost of a ship is estimated at US$8,000 per day includ-
ing a 90% foreign exchange component, for the type of ship
coming to Rangoon; the relevant economic cost is about US$7,900
per day.



-62-
Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
(iv) In estimating the economic benefits from avoided berth con-
L>ruction, it has been assumed that, were the project not to be
implemented, the port management would have to take steps to
build additional berths so as to prevent the development of
unmanageable congestion levels. Specifically, the
"without-project" scenario assumes a maximum berth occupancy of
85%, which, though higher than desirable 1/ is not, however,
much lower than the occupancy rate of 887% recorded in 1981/82.
The financial cost of berth construction is estimated at about
US$9 million per berth (net of duties and taxes), with a
foreign exchange component of 60%; the resulting economic cost
is abouL US$8.5 million per berth. The relevant avoided
investment is assumed to be spread evenly over the period
1983/84 to 1989/90.
(v)  The estimation of avoided ship waiting time for future traffic
has been carried out on the basis of the generalized queueing
model E(a)/E(s)/n, which applies to a port system with an
"effective" berths under the assumption that the statistical
distribution of ship interarrival time and ship service time
are members of the Erlang family, with parameters a and s,
respectively. 2/ The model was calibrated on the basis of a
sample that included information on all ships arriving to the
port of Rangoon in June and December 1981. It was found that
the actual ship interarrival and service time patterns fitted
Erlang distributions with parameters 0.8 and 1.8, respectively.
On the basis of this evidence, it was decided to use the
closest model for which tables were easily available, i.e., the
model with parameters 1 and 2, respectively. 3/ Model calibra-
tion required specific corrections of raw data to account for
navigational constraints on port access (such as the practice
1/ In the "with-project" scenario, on the contrary, overall berth
occupancy does not rise above about 70%. The quantum of investment
required therefore is near optimal as it roughly coincides with mini-
mum total port costs (i.e., the sum of congestion-related costs and
the cost of physical investment itself).
2/ The square root of the Erlang parameter is equal to the ratio of the
mean over the standard deviation.
3/ United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, "Port Development.
A handbook for planners in developing countries."
Report TD/B/C.4/175, Annex II on Mathematical Techniques.



-63-
Annex 8
Page 4 of 5
of daytime pilotage only) and the actual time spent steering a
vessel from the outer anchorage to the port itself. These and
other constraints (such as draft limitations requiring ships to
wait for the high tide and/or resort to lighterage operations)
will have no impact on project feasibility because the project
will have no effect on them, and will therefore cancel each
other when comparing the with-project and the without-project
cases.
(vi) The number of "effective" berths, which is an integral part of
the generalized queueing model, is not the same as the number
of "physical" berths. "Effective" berths are those actually
involved in the process whereby a ship arriving to the port
faces alternative berth assignments and "chooses" one of them.
The difference between the number of "effective" and "physical"
berths, therefore, reflects those constraints, operational or
otherwise, why a ship cannot "choose" from the entire set of
berths. In the specific case of the port of Rangoon, although
there are twelve deepwater berths, the actual number of alter-
natives available to any individual ship is limited by the
following constraints:
- The Sule Pagoda Wharves (SPW 1 through 7) are suitable for
almost any cargo, but less so for rice exports, as they are
located at a long shore distance from the rice godowns.
- The Brooking Street Wharves (BSW I and 2) may be used for all
imports and exports, and they are particularly suitable for
timber exports and container traffic.
- The upstream berths (Hteedan Rice Wharf, Hteedan Coal Wharf
and Ahlone Wharf) have no storage facilities for imports,
except coal; they are only suitable for exports of bagged or
baled agricultural goods; and are located at a long shore
distance from other berths' storage.
As a result, most ships carrying imports have a choice of
nine possible berths, while export-carrying vessels can use
two berths for timber, seven for cement, nine for most other
cargos, and perhaps twelve berths for rice and other bagged
agricultural products. Taking all this into account, it has
been assumed that, on average, ships chose berths out of
eight alternatives. Thus, the number of "effective" berths
is eight, i.e., two-thirds of the number of physical berths.
This proportion of effective to physical berths has been
assumed to remain constant over the project horizon to



-64-
Annex 8
Page 5 of 5
account for the fact that most of the berths to be con-
structed in the future will be specialized berth.>.; (as
required to achieve greater throughput), which keeps a limit
on the number of berths from which a ship can effectively
choose.
Sgurce: Bank staff
January 1983



-65-                           Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Assumptions made in Preparing Financial ForecastE
A. General
The financial projections in current prices cover the period
1982/83 to 1988/89 and account for increases in the traffic throughput and
assume tariff increase of 20% overall in each of the three years 1984/85 -
1986/87.
B.1 Revenue and Expenditure Forecasts
The base revenue figure consists of BPC's estimated results
1982/83. Thereafter, the traffic revenues are expected to be influenced
by (i) an average expected annual growth of 5.5% p.a. in the traffic
volume; (ii) necessary increases in the general tariff rates required to
preserve the port's healthy financial position (it is assumed that con-
tainerized general cargo will pay approximately the same charges as
non-containerized cargo).
Uniform tariff increases on traffic revenue effective April 1 of
each fiscal year have been assumed as follows:
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
------------------ Kyats million ----------------
Original Revenue
Estimate          148.8    149.9    151.2    153.9    159.8    167.1    174.8
20% Increase in
1984/85             -         -       30.2      30.8     32.0      33.4      35.0
181.0    184.7    191.8     200.5    209.8
20% Increase in
1985/86             -        -         -        36.9     38.4      40.1      42.0
221.6    230.2    240.6    251.8
20% Increase in
1986/87             -        -         -         -       46.0      48.1      50.4
276.2    288.7    32 .2
Adjusted Total
Revenue           148.8    149.9    181.4    221.6    276.2    288.7    302.2
Effect of Tariff
Increase            -                 30.2      67.7    116.4    121.6    127.4
These adjustments are not proposals, but rather indicators of the order of
magnitude of the adjustments which would be required for BPC to maintain a
reasonable financial position and meet its financial commitments.
Demurrage income for the period was reduced proportionally, in view of the
fact that BPC is actively engaging in reducing the "dwell time" of imports
at the port. Other income was unusually high in 1981/82 due to proceeds



-66-
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
obtained from liquidating the last of BPC's leftover coal inventory.
Therefore, it was forecast to decrease in 1982/83 and to increase by
approximately K 1.0 million per annum thereafter.
B.2 Operating Expenses
(a) Labor costs are projected to increase by 8% per annum due to BPC's
intention to expand its work force;
(b) maintenance and repair costs are assumed to continue at an
increase of 10% p.a.;
(c) administration costs are projected to increase by 13% because of
planned restructuring of BPC's organization, creation of a
Progress Coordination Division and introduction of a Training
Division.
(d) other expenses are expected to increase by 10% p.a. as in the
past;
(e) depreciation figures were provided by BPC, using the straight-line
depreciation method and utilized the following rates: (i) civil
works (2.5%), (ii) vessels and craft (7%), cargo handling equip-
ment (15%), plant and machinery (15%).
The last revaluation of fixed assets took place in 1975; another revalua-
tion will be done by March 31, 1985 and agreement to revalue fixed assets
at least once every four years was reached at negotiations.
B. Interest Charges
These charges are composed of four elements, repayment of:
(i) IDA Credit 671-BA; (ii) ADB/OPEC Loan; (iii) the proposed IDA credit;
and (iv) the short-term local bank loan.
Capital Expenditure
The sources and applications of funds forecast (Table 23) were
determined on the basis of the investment program shown in Table 22.
Withdrawal of funds from own reserves were also based on the investment
program.
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



Mae  I E
-67--
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Port Efficiency Indicators
1.      In order that Port Efficiency Indicators may be computed on a
regular basis, the following important data should be collected.
(a) For each ship serviced at the port:
i) date and time of arrival at the outer anchorage,
ii) name, dead-weight tonnage, length and draft on arrival of
ship,
iii) date and time of start and end of lighterage operations (if
any), tonnage handled;
iv) date and time of arrival at berth and name of berth
assigned,
v) date and time of departure from berth,
vi) periods when ship is idle at berth and reasons therefore,
vii) tonnage and category of cargo discharged and loaded,
viii) number of gangs and number of men in each gang employed in
each shift,
ix) number of hours including overtime worked,
x) type, number and hours of cargo handling equipment
requested,
xi) type, number and hours of cargo handling equipment was
available.
(b) For each transit shed and open storage area:
i) tons of cargo cleared within free period,
ii) tons of cargo remaining uncleared for more than 2, 3 and 6
weeks, and average dwell time in the port,
iii) number of containers (TEUs) cleared within free period,



-68-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
iv) number of containers (TEUs) (full) remaining uncleared for
more than 2, 3 and 6 weeks,
v) number of containers (TEUs) (empty) remaining uncleared for
more than 2, 3 and 6 weeks.
2.      From the above data, the following indicators should be derived
each quarter and compared with the targets shown in Tables 6 and 7.
a) Throughput per ship         Total tonnage handled divided by
per day (24 hours)         number of hours at berth
Break bulk general cargo;
Palletized general cargo;
Bagged cargo; Iron and Steel;
Fertilizer; Grain; and
Containers.
b) Productivity                Total tonnage handled divided by total
Tons per net gang hour    gang time (including overtime) less
stoppages not attributed to the gang
(e.g., weather, cargo/equipment not
available, etc.).
Break bulk general cargo;
Bagged cargo; Fertilizer;
Grain; and Containers.
c) Average Dwell Time          Ton-days of cargo in storage beyond
free period divided by total tonnage
stored.
d) Waiting Time                Total time between arrival (at outer
(hours/ship)               anchorage) and berthing of all ships
Divided by number of ships.
e) Service Time                Total time at berth of all ships divided
(hours/ship)               by number of ships.
Note:  BPC is already collecting much of the data suggested above and is
computing some of the above and other efficiency indicators.
Source: BPC/Bank staff
November 1982



-69-
Annex 11
BUJRMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
1. Feasibilitv Study - Rangoon Port Study (September 1982) by
Sir Alexander Cibh & Partners, UK, Volumes I, II, III and IV.
2. Schedule for renovation/construction of vessels, barges and mooring
buoy with sliDway to be used.
3. Details of marine procurement and renewals program including ancillary
and workshoD equipment.
4. Interim ReDort by Burness, Corlett and Partners, UK, on the proposed
construction of the Lighthouse Tender/Salvage Tug.
5. Specification prepared by BPC for Unmanned Lightship and outline
drawing.
6. ProDosed Drocurement contracts for the Project.
7. Calculation of container yard capacity.
8. Drawings showing container yard and timber yard.
9. Container Yard layout - Drawing No. 80382 (two parts).
10. Schedule showing list of other pertinent project data on file.
Source: Bank staff
January 1983



"70"
Table 1
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Existing Berths and Storage Areas - Rangoon
Apron   Storage Areas
Length   Depth   Width   Sheds    Open   Current Main
Berths                  ft.       ft.      ft.    (square yards)    Function
A. Upstream Berths
i) Hteedan Coal 1/       480        28       40    10,500  25,700   Coal and Coke Imports,
Rice Imports
ii) Hteedan No. 1         455        28       40     7,900      -     Rice Exports
iii) Ahlone                440        31       50    21,900 2/  -       Rice Export
B. Sule Pagoda Berths
No. 1                 450        20      40      6,000  13,200   Fertilizer Imports
No. 2                 450        15      40      6,200  14,550   Rubber and Jute
No. 3                 450        15      40      4,600  11,250   Coastal Trade
No. 4                 450        10      40      8,000  20,750   Coastal Trade
No. 5                 525        25       50    14,450  18,350   General Cargo
No. 6                 525        25      50    19,200  26,420   General Cargo
No. 7                 525        25       50    15,650  19,650   General Cargo
C. Brooking Street Wharves
No. 1                 450        27     100      2,650   5,550   Timber Exports
No. 2                 450        27      100     3,775   8,330   Timber Exports
D.  Port Health Station 1/  500         20       40        -        -    Passenger
1/ Pontoon berth.
2/ Includes 11,600 square yards already agreed.
Source: BPC
November 1982



-7 1-
Table 2
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Existing Cargo Handling Equipment
Date
Description                            Acquired           Total        Operating
(1) Quay Cranes:
40 ton                         1939                1               1
10 ton gantry                  1935                1               1
5 ton gantry 1/               1974                1              1
3 ton                                             5              _
2 ton                        1952                 4              -
1 1/2 ton                     1957                 6               -
(2) Mobile Cranes:
40 ton Coles                  1979                 1               1
25 ton Coles
Endurance                     1966                 1               1
25 ton Russian                1966                 1              -
13 ton Coles                  1979                10             10
7 ton Coles Proteus          1966                 7              7
5 ton Coles Argus            1962                 1              1
5 ton Nelson                 1958                 6              2
(3) Side Loader:
4 ton                        1979                 4              4
(4) Forklift Trucks:
Matbro 5 T                    1977                 5               5
Toyota 15 T                   1979                 2              2
Toyota 8 T                    1979                 3              3
Toyota 3 T                    1979                40             40
Others 1.5 T-3 T               -                   6              2
Toyota  3 T                   1979                12             12
(5) Tractors:
Ferguson 5 T                  1960                 2               1
Ford 3 000 5 T                1969                10              5
ZWE 5 T                       1973                 6              2
Massy Ferguson 135 5 T        1979                12              12
Ford 3600 5 T                 1979                21             21
(6) Trailers:
5 T                           1979                72             72
10 T                          1976                 2              2
5 T                            -                  90             90
(7)  Front End Loader                  1979                 4              4
1/   Being re-erected at new site.
Source: BPC
November 1982



-72-
Table 3
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Existing Lightships and Navigating Aids
The lighthouse division of the Marine Department operates and
maintains:
7 Lighthouses including one unattended
4 electric operated light
2 gas operated light
1 acetylene operated light
2 Lightships - manned
electrically powered 114 ft ships
Drayon and Thuriya
4 Light floats, 1-40 ft. - 3-28-ft.
At Lanthaya, and the upper and lower floats
in the Rangoon entrance channel plus one spare.
These are effectively unattended lightships.
2 Light floats - coastal waters 70 ft.
1 at Sanda and 1 lightship/float relief.
23 Navigation Buoys
23 in use now, of which 10 are new.
Source: BPC
November 1982



-73-
Table 4
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Existing Major Vessels
Type               Name            Built      Cross Registered Tons
1.  Pilot Vessel          Thamada         1958              777
2.  Buoy Vessel           Thiha            1955             768
3.  Buoy Vessel           Sinpyaung       1959              743
4.  Lighthouse Tender    Mee Pya           1954             856
5.  Survey Vessel         Maykhalar       1955              298
6.  Sea Going Tug         Natthar         1959              637
7.  Harbor Tug            Konbaung        1966              165
8.  Harbor Tug            Tayza           1966              140
9.  Harbor Tug            Thiri            1944             110
10.  Firefloat             Natmin           1961             127
11.  Trailing Suction      Thaung Naing   1960               870m3 hopper
Hopper Dredger        Yay
(self-propelled)
12.  Buckel Dredger        Kyaut Khaing   1960
(self-propelled)    Yay                                   3
13.  Grab Dredgers (2)       -             1970/71           1.5m  grabs
Source: BPC
November 1982



-74-
Table 5
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Allocation of Existing Berths to Commodities
1981/82           1984/85            1989/90
Imports
General Cargo                  5.17              4.20              3.19
Fertilizers                    0.66              0.76              0.89
Coal and Coke                  0.04              0.06              0.08
Sub-Total                      5.87              5.02              4.16
Exports
Rice                           2.25              3.01              3.10
Pulses, Maize and
animal food                    0.43              0.43              0.30
Sub-total                      2.68              3.44              3.40
Timber-logs                    0.90              0.62              0.48
Timber-sawn                    0.75              0.61              0.38
Sub-Total                      1.65              1.23              0.86
Cement                         0.55              0.55              0.81
Minerals                       0.04              0.20              0.27
Jute and Rubber                0.20              0.28              0.27
Other General Cargo            0.22              0.20              0.15
Sub-Total                      1.01              1.23              1.50
Containers 1/                  0.04              0.16              1.18
Coastal                        0.75              0.92              0.90
Total Number of Berths        12.00             12.00             12.00
Required Berth Occupancy         88%             70.5%               72%
1/   Container berth occupancy is three-quarters of that of other berths.
This table gives the allocation of berths to different cargos up to
1989/90. Increased usage of containers is expected as the new yard
becomes available; which will reduce the demand for general cargo
berth allocation.
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff
November 1982



BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
General Cargo Productivity and Berth Throughput - 1984/85
Av. No. of                      Workingl/ Tons per  Maximum   Planning
Ship Gangs  Tons per 2/ Hrs   Days per  Working   Tons per  Basis/Tons
Cargo            Per Berth   Gang Hour   Day        Year       Day      Year      per Year
Timber logs       3.5          10 (5)      22       214        770     164,780   148,000
and sawn
Scantlings
Rice              3.0          25 (22)    22        214     1,650      353,100   317,000
Fertilizer/
Minerals          3.5          20 (12)    22        214      1,540     329,560   296,000
General cargo    3.5           10 (6)      22       214        770      164,780   148,000
Rubber/Jute       3.0          10 (6)      22       214        660     141,240   127,000
Cement            3.0          20 (20)    22        214      1,320     282,480   254,000
Coal and Coke    4.9           10 (10)    22        214      1,078     230,692   207,000
1/  Based on 330 available working days and 65% berth occupancy.
2/  1980/81 productivity in brackets.
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff
November 1982



BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
General Cargo Productivity and Berth Throughput (1989/90)
Workingl/ Tons per  Maximum   Planning
Av.No. of   Tons per   Hrs   Days per  Working   Tons per  Basis/Tons
Ship Gangs  Gang Hour  Day      Year       Day       Year    per Year
(per berth)
Cargo
Timber logs and
sawn scantlings         3.5         15        22      214    1,155      247,170   220,000
Rice                     3.0         30        22      214    1,980      423,720   381,000
Fertilizer/
Minerals                 3.5         20        22      214    1,540      329,560   296,000
General Cargo            3.5         12        22      214       924     197,736   177,000
Rubber/Jute              3.0         12        22      214       792     169,488   152,000
Cement                   3.0         20        22      214    1,320      282,480   254,000
Coal and Coke            4.9         10        22      214    1,078      230,692   207,000
1/ Based on 330 working days and 65% berth occupancy.
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff
November 1982



-77-
Table 8
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
----- Kyats '000s       -----      - US$ 'O0Os ------
Local.  Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Cargo Handling Equipment:
(a) General Cargo                      1,840   54,320   56,160         230      6,790    7,020
(b) Containerized Cargo                  -      22,280   22,280         -       2,785    2,785
(c) Spares                               -      14,760   14,760         -       1,845    1,845
Subtotal:                       1,840   91,360   93,200         230    11,420   11,650
Construction of Container
Yard and Shed                          34,240   18,040   52,280       4,280      2,255    6,535
Port lighting and electrical
installation:
i) General Port                     12,320   19,680   32,000       1,540      2,460    4,000
ii) Container Yard                    1,440    4,960    6,400         180        620       800
Subtotal:                      13,760   24,640   38,400       1,720     3,080    4,800
Renovation and repair of
Pontoon jetties                        17,600   19,200   36,800       2,200      2,400    4,600
Marine Renewals and Renovation:
i) Provision of 2 new vessels          640   60,560   61,200          80      7,570    7,650
ii) Renovation of vessels,
Navigation and
Moor.ing Buoys                 30,800   59,640   90,440       3,850      7,455   11,305
iii) Provision of Lanterns,
Communication and
Workshop Equipment                520   18,080   18,600          65      2,260    2,325
Subtotal:                      31,960  138,280  170,240       3,995    17,285   21,280
Dredger Overhaul                          4,800   27,600   32,400          600     3,450    4,050
Technical Assistance and Training         1,120    8,720    9,840          140     1,090    1,230
Consulting Services for Supervision         -       4,800    4,800         -         600       600
Base Cost                               105,320  332,640  437,960    13,165    41,580   54,745
Duties and Taxes                        244,840      -      244,840    30,605        -      30,605
Physical Contingencies                   10,160   22,960   33,120        1,270     2,870    4,140
Price Contingencies                      19,480   44,400   63,880       2,435      5,550    7,985
GRAND TOTAL :                      379,800  400,000  779,800    47,475    50,000   97,475
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



Table 9
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Detailed Estimated Costs - Cargo Handling Equipment
--     Kyats '000s -         -----          US$ '000       ----------
Number       Local    Foreign    Total           Local       Foreign       Total
A.  General Cargo
1. 6T Quay Cranes            2                    16,360    16,360             -         2,045        2,045
2. 6T Tower Cranes           4                    10,960    10,960             -         1,370        1,370
3. Mobile Cranes
i) 13 Ton              4                      3,480      3,480           -            435          435
ii) 35 Ton              2                      5,120      5,120           -            640.         640
4. Forklift Trucks
i) 4 Ton              32                     11,680    11,680            -         1,460         1,460
ii) 2.5 Ton            12                      3,880      3,880           -            485          485
5.  Log Loader               1                        680        680           -            85            85
6.  IOT Tractors             2                        320        320          -             40            40
7.  10T Trailers             2                         80         80           -            10            10
8.  Control Center Radio                              200        200           -            25-           25
9.  Pallets                 5000        1,840       1,080      2,920          230          135           365
10.  Spares:
i) 3T Quay Crane repair                               480        480           -            60            60
if) New and Existing Equipment (15%)               11,400    11,400             -         1,425        1,425
Subtotal :                 1,840    65,720    67,560            230        8,215         8,445
B.  Container Yard
1.  35T Gantry Cranes        2            -       14,800    14,800             -         1,850        1,850
2. Forklift Trucks:
i) 36 Ton Kg           1                      2,800      2,800           -            350          350
ii) 15 Ton              1                      1,120      1,120           -            140          140
3.  28T Tractors             2                        680        680           -            85.           85
4.  40T Tractors             2                      1,080      1,080           -           135           135
5.  20 Ft Trailers           4                        440        440           -            55-           55
6.  40 Ft Trailers           4                        560        560          -             70            70
7.  20 Ft Spreaders          2                        160        160          -             20            20
8.  40 Ft Spreaders          4                        440        440           -            55            55
9. Fork Blades for
existing FLT                                    40          40          -              5            5
10.  UHF Radio                                         160        160           -            20            20
11.  15% Spares                          _          3,360       3,360           -           420           420
Subtotal :                   -       25,640    25,640            -         3,205         3,205
Base Cost                  1,840    91,360    93,200           230        11,420        11,650
Duties and Taxes          57,160        -       57,160       7,145           -           7,145
Physical Contingencies        80        -            80         10           -              10
Price Contingencies          280      5,280      5,560          35            660          695
59,360    96,640   156,000         7,420        12,080        19,500
Source: Bank staff
No-vember 1982



-79-                           Table 10
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Detailed Estimated Costs - Container Yard,
Port Lighting and Pontoon Renovation
----- Kyats '000 ---    ---- US$ '000 ------
Item                           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
1.  Container Yard
(a) container freight station
(5,500 sq.yds.)(cfs)            7,840   8,120  15,960    980   1,015    1,995
(b) surfacing and drainage
(40,000 sq.yds.)    24,800   9,920  34,720  3,100   1,240    4,340
(c) site clearance                    1,600     -      1,600    200       -        200
Subtotal                            34,240  18,040  52,280  4,280   2,255    6,535
2.  Port Lighting and
Electrical Installations
(a) 35 light towers            )
(b) 64 eaves lights            )    12,320  19,680  32,000  1,540   2,460    4,000
(c) cable & transformers       )
(d) electrical installations
(i) c.f.s.                         120      600      720      15      75        90
(ii) containers                   1,320   4,360   5,680    165        545       710
Subtotal                             13,760  24,640  38,400  1,720   3,080    4,800
3.  Pontoon Jetties Renovation
(a) 105 tank units       )
(b) 12 pontoons          )           17,600  19,200  36,800  2,200   2,400    4,600
(c) 21 sponsons          )
(d) 24 approach bridges)
Base Cost                            65,600  61,880 127,480  8,200   7,7735   15,93
Duties and Taxes                     55,080    -      55,080  6,885       -      6,885
Physical Contingencies                6,400   6,160  12,560    800        770    1,570
Price Contingencies                  12,040  17,720  29,760  1,505   2,215    31720
TOTAL                              139,120  85,760 224,880 17,390  10,720   28,110
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



-80-
Table 11
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Detailed Estimated Costs - Marine Works and Dredger Overhaul
----- Kyats  000 --       ---       US$       ------0
Item                          Local  Foreign   Total          Local  Foreign  Total
1.   New Vessels                          520   47,720   48,240         65      5,965   6,030
(a) lighthouse tender
(b) unmanned lightship              120   12,840   12,960         15      1,605   1,620
Subtotal                            640   60,560   61,200         80      7,570   7,650
2.   Renovation & Renewal
Vessels, Buoys and Barges
(a) major vessels                 7,160   22,160   29,320        895      2,770   3,665
(b) launches                      2,160    4,960    7,120        270        620      890
(c) work boats and barges         2,360    3,640    6,000        295        455      750
(d) grab dredgers and
hopper barges               9,200   13,880   23,080   1,150         1,735   2,885
(e) mooring buoys                 7,600   11,320   18,920        950      1,415   2,365
(f) navigation buoys              2,320    3,680    6,000        290        460      750
Subtotal                         30,800   59,640   90,440   3,850         7,455  11,305
3.   Suction Dredger Overhaul           4,800   27,600   32,400        600     3,450   4,050
4.   Workshop Equipment                   360   14,400   14,760         45     1,800   1,845
5.   Communications and
Position Finding Equipment          40    1,200    1,240          5        150      155
6.   Provision of Lanterns                120    2,480    2,600         15        310     325
Base Cost                        36,760  165,880  202,640   4,595    20,735  25,330
Duties and Taxes                132,600      -      132,600  16,575         -    16,575
Physical Contingencies            3,680   16,800   20,480        460      2,100   2,560
Price Contingencies               7,160   21,400   28,560        895      2,675   3,570
180,200  204,080  384,280  22,525    25,510  48,035
Source: Bank Staff
November 1982



-81-
Table 12
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Bank             Bank
Fiscal           Fiscal                             Cumulative
Calendar   Year              Quarter           Amount             Amount
1984     1984               III                400                 400
IV              2,350              2,750
1985                I              3,010               5,760
II              4,000              9,760
1985                        III              4,000              13,760
IV              3,140             16,900
1986               I               3,600              20,500
II               4,500             25,000
1986                       III               3,600              28,600
IV               3,020             31,620
1987               I               3,670              35,290
I.I              2,400             37,690
1987                       III               2,400              40,090
IV               2,400             42,490
1988               I               2,140              44,630
II               2,060             46,690
1988                       III               1,500              48,190
IV               1,810             50,000
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



-32-
Table 13
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
International Traffic Through Rangoon Port
and Outports 1975/76-1981/82
(000's tons)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
1. Rangoon Port
Twelve Deepwater berths I/
Export                         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       746      1,362      1,292      1,185
Import                         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       782        685        718      1,121
Total                          n.a.       n.a.       n.a.    1,528       2,047      2,010      2,306
Other Facilities 2/
Export                         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       181        265        193        179
Import                         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        59         19         29         27
Total                          n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       240        284        222        206
Rangoon Port
Export                          832        960      1,090       927      1,627      1,485     1,364
Import                          614        619        553       841        704        747      1,148
Total                         1,446      1,579      1,643    1,768       2,331      2,232      2,512
2.  Outports  3/
Export                         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        69        147        102        138
Import                         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.         0          0          0          0
Total                          n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        69        147        102        138
n.a. = not applicable/available
1/  These twelve deepwater berths are:  Sule Pagoda Wharves (SPW 1 through 7);
Brooking Street Wharves (BSW 1 and 2); Hteedan Coal berth; Hteedan
Rice Wharf; and Ahlone Wharf.
2/  The other facilities include SPW 8 (which is used almost exclusively
for coastal seaborne traffic), the foreshores, and stream moorings.
3/  The eight outports are Akyab, Kyaukpyu, Sandoway, Bassein, Moulmein,
Tavoy, Mergui and Kwathaung.
Source: Burma Ports Corporation
January 1983



-83-
Table 14
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Actual and Projected International Traffic
Through Rangoon Port 1978/79- 1999-2000
(Mfs tons)
Actual Traffic                             Projected Trafficl/
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82    1984/85   1989/90   1994/95/-'  1999/2000-
l. DRY EXPORTS
Rice -/                              182        733        597        613       1032( 0)  1306(  0) 1630(  0)  2100(  0)
Minerals                               14        11         18         16         65( 1)    97(  9)  120( 14)   135( 18)
Timber                       4/      230        259        210        219        199( 2)   230( 17)  270( 26)   310( 33)
Other Agricultural Products-         189        203        354        252        212( 9)   251( 69)  340(122)   585(237)
Cement                               121        126         75         90        153( 0)   225(  0)  360(  0)   500(  0)
Other General Cargo                  191        151         58         33         20( 2)    40( 20)   80( 51)   170(122)
TOTAL DRY EXPORTS                       927      1483       1312       1223       1681(14)  2149(115) 2800(213)  3800(410)
2. DRY IMPORTS
Coal and Coke                         64         32         25         26         13( 0)    18(  0)   30(  0)    40(  0)
Machinery                              98       111         94        154        130( 4)   160( 36) )
Construction Materials               -74         78         84        113        155( 3)   188( 25) )550(158) ) 650(213)
Transport Equipment                  147         61         99        153         76( 3)    95( 21) )
Foodstuffs                            41         57         52         58         56( 4)    66( 30)  100( 70)   100( 80)
Fertilizer                            44         26         64        267        242( 0)   293(  0)  370(  0)   550(  0)
Other General Cargo                  349        306        306        360        287(15)   342(115)  450(236)   660(396)
TOTAL DRY IMPORTS                       817       671        724       1131        959(29)  1162(227) 1500(464)  2000(689)
3.  TOTAL DRY TRAFFIC                      1744      2154       2036       2354       2640(43)  3311(342) 4300(677)  5800(1099)
4. POL TRAFFIC-/
Exports                                0        144        173        141         n.a.      n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Imports                               24         33         23         17        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
TOTAL POL TRAFFIC                        24       177        196        158         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.
5.  TOTAL TRAFFIC                          1768      2331       2332       2512         n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
n.a. - not available
1/   Figures between parentheses indicate the containerized tonnage.  The port of Rangoon handles 90-95% of exports
(only small amounts of rice are exported from the outports) and virtually 100% of imports.
2/   The long-term projections for 1994/95 and 1999/2000 are at best very tentative.
3/   "Rice" includes only rice and broken rice.  Rice bran is included under "Other Agricultural Products".
4/   "Other Agricultural Products" include mainly jute, rubber, pulses, maize and animal feed.  In recent years,
pulses, maize and animal feed have represented about 70% of this category, and jute, another 15%.  Animal feed
includes rice bran, groundnut cakes and sesame cakes.
5/   POL traffic is handled at the Syriam oil jetties, located outside the immediate port area.  POL projections
are irrevelant to the justification of the proposed project, and no accurate figures are availaole.
Source: Burma Ports Corporation, Annual Reports for the years 1978/79, 1979/80, 1980/81 and 1981/82 (Tables III(9)
and III(19)). Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners: "Rangoon Port Study" (September 1982).
January 1983



-84-
Table 15
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Forecast of Container Traffic Through Rangoon Port 1981/82-1999/2000
% of
Containerizable      Containerizable        Containerized       Number of
Tonnage          Tonnage Actually           Tonnage           Import
Year         (000 tons)         Containerized            (ooo tons)         TEUs 1/
Imports  Exports    Imports  Exports    Imports  Exports
1981/82    370       134         2.3       3.5          9         5          720
1982/83    384       139         4.0       6.1         15         8        1,300
1983/84    400       148         5.0      7.3          20        11        1,660
1984/85    415       157         6.9      9.8          29        15        2,380
1985/86    433       166        18.5     26.2          80        43        6,700
1986/87    450       173        30.0     42.1         135        73       11,200
1987/88    466       181        35.0     48.9         163        89       13,600
1988/89    483       190        40.0     55.1         193       105       16,100
1989/90    500       198        45.0     61.5         225       122       18,700
1992/93    595       276        60.0     70.0         357       193       29,700
1994/95    658       312        70.0     80.0         461       250       38,400
1999/2000  855       412        80.0     90.0         684       371       57,000
1/  The average tonnage per imported TEU is assumed to
be 12 tons. Than of a exported TEU, about 6.5 tons.
Source: Burma Ports Corporation and Consultants.
January 1983



BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits 1/
(US$ Million)
Costs                                      Benefits
Potential Benefits at "Full Implementation"            Total
Additional          Avoided         100% of         80% of              Benefits 2/   Net
Capital         Operating and           Berth       Avoided Ship   Avoided Time                        Benefit
Year       Investment       Maintenance Costs    Construction   Waiting Time   Service Time  Total                   Stream
1983/84          0.74               0.05                6.10                                        6.10               (0.79)
1984/85         18.19               1.32                6.10            5.30            6.90       18.30    0.20      (19.31)
1985/86         19.47               2.69                6.10            5.50            8.20       19.80    6.70      (15.46)
1986/87          8.43               3.28                6.10            5.80            9.50       21.40   14.80        3.09
1987/88          8.10               3.84                6.10            6.00           10.70       22.80   19.20        7.26
1988/89          0.72               3.90                6.10            6.30           12.00       24.40   24.20       19.58
1989/90          -                  3.90                6.10            6.50           13.30       25.90   25.90       22.00
1990/91          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
1991/92          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
1992/93          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
1993/94          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
1994/95          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
1995/96          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
1996/97          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
1997/98          -                  3.90                -               6.50           13.30       19.80   19.80       15.90
ERR =28.6%
Say 29%
1/  Assumptions underlying quantification of economic costs and benefits are found in Annex 7.
2/  Actual benefits are calculated as a proportion of the relevant potential benefits at full implementation; the                       H
proportionality factor being the fraction of cumulative capital investment completed at previous year.
Source: Appraisal Mission, BPC, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners.
January 1983



-86-
Table 17
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
BPC Income and Expenditure Forecasts - FY78 to FY82
(figures in current Kyat million)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Income
Traffic Revenue                        42.5   39.2   55.3   58.5   86.3
Demurrage  -                            8.6    9.9   15.6   21.0   40.7
Other Income                           15.4   26.6   32.4   25.8   30.1
TOTAL REVENUES                        66.5   75.7  103.3  105.3  157.T
Expenditure
Labor                                  17.5   18.4   18.4   17.2   21.2
Mantenance & Repairs                    6.3    7.8    7.6    9.0   13.1
Administration                          9.8   11.0   11.3   12.1   15.0
Other                                   7.1    7.5    8.0    9.5   10.7
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                40.7   44.7   45.3   47.8   60.0
Depreciation                           9.0    8.9    8.7   11.6   16.2
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES              49.7   53.6   54.0   59.4   76.2
Interest Charges                        0.5    1.5    4.7    6.5    6.2
TOTAL EXPENSES                        50.2   55.1   58.7   65.9   82.4
Net Revenues                           16.3   20.6   44.6   39.4   74.7
Working Ratio (%) 1/                   61.2   59.0   43.9   45.4   38.2
Operating Ratio (%.7 2/                74.7   70.8   52.3   56.4   48.5
Debt Service Coverage (times) 3/    51.6   20.7   12.3    8.8    8.2
Rate of return on average
net fixed assets (%) 4/              12.1   12.7   27.2   26.4   45.8
1/  Total working expenses as percentage of total revenue.
21 Total operating expenses as percentage of total revenue.
3/ Total revenue less working expenses divided by interest and financial
charges.
4/  Net operating income (excluding interest charges) divided by average
net fixed assets (revalued in 1975).
Source: Burma Ports Corporation
November 1982



-87-
Table 18
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
BPC Balance Sheets as of March 30 - FY78 to FY82
(figures in current Kyat million)
1978     1979       1980     1981      1982
Current Assets Less Current Liabilities
Stores or works in progress                    15.1      22.7       26.4     20.1      30.7
Receivables less prov. for bad debts           42.1      50.7       61.1    103.4      62.6
Cash-in-hand                                   46.1      77.2      127.1     16.3    106.9
103.3    150.6      214.6    139.8    200.2
Less: Security deposits                           9.3      15.7       25.6     25.1      41.5
Creditors                                  45.2      60.3      46.8      62.4     65.5
Miscellaneous credit balances              60.0      73.2      65.6      73.9      31.3
Excess/(deficit) of current assets
over current liabilities                       (11.2)      1.4       76.6    (21.6)    61.9
Fixed Assets
At cost less depreciation to date                156.0    189.4      172.1    173.6    179.4
Investments                                       -         -          -      130.7    140.7
TOTAL NET ASSETS                               144.8    190.8       248.7    282.7    382.0
Financed by:
Proprietory interest of Government                 8.7     20.0       20.0     20.0      20.0
(Equity)
Accumulated Surplus                              126.2    146.8      176.0    203.0    299.0
Foreign Loans
- IDA credit                                      1.9     19.5       48.2     53.9      53.5
- ADB loan                                        -         -         -        1.6       1.9
- UNDP aid                                        -         -         -        -         3.4
- Outstanding debentures                         8.0       4.5        4.5      4.2       4.2
TOTAL CAPITAL EMPLOYED                         144.8    190.8       248.7    282.7    382.0
Return on average net fixed assets                12.1     12.7       27.2     26.4      45.8
Debt to equity ratio                             0.07      0.14       0.27     0.27      0.20
Source: Burma Ports Corporation
November 1982



-88-
Table 19
BURMA
BURMA PORT PROJECT
Key Cost Items Percentages FY78 - FY82
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82
Key Cost Items as Percentages
Total Working Expenses            100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Labor                              43.0    41.2       40.6      36.0     35.3
Maintenance and repairs             15.5    17.4      16.8      18.8      21.8
Other expenses                     17.4    16.8       17.7      19.9     17.8
Administration                     24.1    24.6       24.9      25.3     15.0
Key Cost Items as Percentages
of Total Revenue
Total working expenses             61.2    59.0       43.9      45.5     38.2
Depreciation                       13.5    11.8        8.4      11.0      10.3
Total operating expenses           74.7    70.9       52.3      56.5     48.5
Interest charges & financial
charges                             0.8      2.0       4.5       6.2      3.9
Total expenses                     75.5    72.8       56.8      62.6     52.5
Net revenues                       24.5    23.2       43.2      37.4     47.5
Source: Bank staff
November 1982



-89-
Table 20
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
BPC Income and Expenditure Forecasts FY83 to FY89
(in current Kyats million)
Base Year   -------- Project Implementazion Period --------
(Estimate)                                                                *
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89
Income
Traffic Revenue                   92.3       97.4      102.7      108.4     114.3      120.6      127.3
Demurrage                         35.0       30.0       25.0       21.0       20.0      20.0       20.0
Other Income                      21.5       22.5       23.5       24.5      25.5       26.5       27.5
Effect of Tariff Increases         -          -         30.2       67.7     116.4      121.6      127.4
TOTAL REVENUES                   148.8      149.9      181.4      221.6     276.2      288.7      302.2
Expenditure
Labor                             22.9       24.7       26.4       28.8      31.1       33.6       36.3
Maintenance and Repairs           14.4       15.8       17.2       19.2       21.2      23.2       25.5
Administration                    17.0       19.2       21.4       24.5      27.5       31.2       35.3
Other                             11.8       12.9       14.1       15.7      17.2       19.0       20.7
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES            66.1       72.6       79.9       88.2      97.0      107.0      117.8
Depreciation                      15.5       22.4       38.8       62.4      76.7       81.9       81.6
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES          81.6       95.0      117.9      150.6     173.7      188.9      199.4
Interest Charges 1/                5.2        4.7        4.2       11.9      11.3       10.7       39.1
TOTAL EXPENSES                    86.8       99.7      122.1      162.5     185.0      199.6      238.5
Net Revenues                      62.0       50.2       59.3       59.1      91.2       89.1       63.7
Working Ratio (%) 2/              44.4       48.4       44.0       39.8      35.1       37.1       39.0
Operating Ratio (%) 3/            54.8       63.3       65.0       68.0      62.9       65.4       65.9
Average Net Fixed Assets         213.6      309.2      534.6     860.2   1,056.5   1,128.0   1,124.3
Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets 4/                       31.5       17.8       11.8        8.2       9.7        8.8        9.1
*   First year of operation after completion of the project.
1/  BPC does not capitalize interest charges and this practice has been
conformed to in the financial forecasts.
2/  Total working expenses as percentage of total revenues.
3/  Total operating expenses as percentage of total revenuez.
4/  Net operating income (excluding interest charges) divided by average
net fixed assets (revalued in 1975).
Source:  Bank Staff
November 1982



-90-
Table 21
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
BPC Forecast Balance Sheets FY83 - FY89
(in current Kyats million)
Base Year   -------- Project Implementation Period --------
(Estimate)                                                                  *
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89
Fixed Assets
Net Fixed Assets                  247.8      370.6      698.5    1,022.0   1,091.9   1,165.1   1,083.5
Investments                       140.7      140.7       30.1        -          -           -        100.2
Total Long-term Assets                       511.3      728.5    1,022.0   1,091.9   1,165.1   1,183.7
Current Assets
Stores Work-in Progress            3-1.5      32.0       35.0        40.0       45.0       45.0       40.0
Receivables less Bad Debt
Provision                        65.0       67.0       70.0        75.0       70.0       70.0       70.0
Cash in Hand                      108.6       71.9       56.7        27.6       73.6        67.1       58.6
Total Assets                      593.6      682.2      890.2    1,164.6   1,280.5   1,347.2   1,352.3
Financed by:
GOB Proprietary Interest           20.0       20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0       20.0
Accumulated Reserves              342.4      377.5      419.1       460.4      524.3      586.6      631.2
Total Equities                    362.4      397.5      439.1       480.4      544.3      606.6      651.2
Long-term Liability
IDA Credit 671-BA                  48.0       42.4       36.8        31.2       25.6       20.0        14.4
Outstanding Debenture               4.2        4.2        4.2         -           -          -          -
UNDP aid                            4.7        4.7        4.7         4.7        4.7        4.7         4.7
ADB/OPEC Loan                      28.0       73.4       96.9       141.7      138.4       131.3      122.6
Proposed IDA Credit                 -          6.0      143.6       285.6      341.5      400.0      380.0
Total Long-term Liabilities        84.9      130.7      286.2       463.2      510.2      556.0      521.7
Current Liabilities
Security Deposits                  48.0       50.0       52.0        63.0       68.0       59.6        58.2
Creditors                          57.6       65.8       73.3        79.0       75.6       75.0       70.0
Miscellaneous Credit Balances   40.7          38.2       39.6        44.0       47.4       50.0        51.2
Local Loan                          -          -          -          35.0       35.0        -           -
Total Current Liabilities         146.3      154.0      164.9       221.0      226.0      184.6      179.4
Total Equity + Liabilities        593.6      682.2      890.2    1,164.6   1,280.5   1,347.2   1,352.3
Debt Equity Ratio 1/                0.2        0.3        0.6         0.9        0.9        0.9         0.8
*  First year of operation after completion of the project.
1/ Total long-term liabilities divided by total equities.
Source: Mission estimate
November 1983



BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
BPC Five-Year Investment Program - Summary FY84 to FY88
(Figures in current Kyat million)
1883/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88    Total
1.  Cargo Handling Equipment           4.33       45.55      38.90      22.60      18.16    129.54
2. Container Depot                      0.80      36.58      27.85        -           -       6' 23
3.  Port Area Lighting                   -         33.48      9.19        -          -        47.67
4.  Construction of Pontoon Jetties 10.00          20.75      18.67     18.23       2.48      7u. 3
5. Service Vessels and
Marine Equipment                60.55      147.50    194.77       42.19      12.73    457.74
6.  Overhaul Suction Dredger             -           -          -        0.66      60.05      60.71
7. Plant and Machinery for
Maintenance Work                14.61       11.37      11.33      11.33      11.33      59.97
8.  Minor Construction Works           13.41       10.62       6.29       5.20      4.67      40.19
9. Workshop Machinery
and Equipment                   10.00        2.20       1.30       1.20       1.00      15.70
10.  Office Equipment                    4.09        3.99       3.99       3.99       3.99     20.05
11.  Engineering and Training             -          3.44       2.72       2.88        -        9.04
12.  Consultancy Services                1.62        6.76       5.78       0.72        -       14.88
13.  Unallocated Expenses               30,73       39.46      65.64     37.62      40.70    214.15
150.14     361.70    386.43    146.62    155.11  1,200.00
Sources of Financing
1983/84                1984/85                  1985/86                   1986/87                  1987/88                  Total
LC     FC    TC        LC      FC      TC       LC      FC      TC        LC     FC    TC          LC      FC     TC        LC      FC       TC
IDA Project          4.00   6.00  10.00   119.36 137.64 257.00   133.60 142.00 275.60    57.00  55.88 112.88    65.52  58.48 124.00   379.48 400.00   779.48
ADB/OPEC Project   43.57  45.41  88.98    56.74  23.47  80.21    32.23  48.21  80.44              -      -       -         -       -      -      132.54 117.09   249.63
BPC                 33.03  11.89  44.92    19.48  10.00  29.48    16.82  13.57  30.39    18.04  15.70  33.74    15.21  15.90  31.11   102.58  67.06  169.64
UNDF                 0,50   0.75   1.25        -       -      -         -       -       -         -      -       -         -      -                0.50   0.75       1.25
Total :             81.10  64.05 145.15   195.58 171.11 366.69   182.65 203.78 386.43    75.04  71.58 146.62    80.73  74.38 155.11   615.10 584.90 1,200.00
Source: BPC
January 1983



-92-
Table 23
BURMA
BURMA PORTS CORPORATION
BPC Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds Statements FY83 to FY89
(figures in current Kyats million)
Base Year             Project Implementation Period --------
(Estimate)                                                                 *
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89
Sources
Operating Revenue 1/               67.2      54.9       63.5       71.0      102.5       99.8      102.8
Depreciation                       15.5       22.4       38.8      62.4       76.7       81.9       81.6
Investment Withdrawal               -          -       110.6       30.1        -          -          -
Total Internal Cash Generation  82.7        77.3       2q12.9        163.5   179.2      181.7      T}
Proceeds of ADB Loan               26.1     45.4         23.5      48.2        -          -          -
Proceeds of IDA Credit             -         6.0       137.6      142.0       55.9       58.5        -
Proceeds of Local Loan             -         -           -         35.0        -          -          -
Total Internal Cash Generation  26.1        51.4       161.1      225.2       55.9       58.5        _
Total Sources                    108.8    128.7        374.0      388.7      234.1      240.2      184.4
Application of Funds
Contribution to GOB 2/             18.6     15.1        17.8       17.8       27.3       26.7       19.1
Debenture Redemption                -        -           -          4.2        -          -          -
IDA Credit 671-BA
Debt Service 3/                 10.8      10.3         9.8        9.3        8.8        8.3        7.8
ADB/OPEC Loan Debt Service 3/    -           -           -          2.2        8.1       12.5       12.2
Local Loan Debt Service 3/          -        -           -          2.8        2.8       37.8        -
Proposed IDA Credit
Debt Service 3/                  -         -           -          -          -          -          5.4
Total Repayments                   29.4     25.4        27.6       36.3       47.0       85.3       45.5
Proposed IDA Project                -       10.0       257.0      275.6      112.9      124.0        -
Other Capital Investments          83.9    135.2       109.7      110.8       33.7       31.1        -
Investment in GOB Bonds            -         -           -          -          -          -        100.2
Total Investments                  83.9    145.2       366.7      386.4      146.6      155.1      100.2
Working Capital Change             (4.5)   (41.9)      (20.3)    (34.0)       41.5       (0.2)      39.7
Total Applications               108.8    128.7        374.0      388.7      235.1      240.2       84.2
*   First year of operation after completion of the project.
1/ Net Revenue plus Interest Charges (Table 20).
2/ In lieu of contribution to UGCF; 30% of Net Revenues.
3/ Repayment of principal and interest charges
Source: Mission estimates.
November 1982



-93-
Table 24
BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Traffic and Occupancy at Deepwater Berths, 1978/,.-1981/82
1978/79        1979/80        1980/81       1981/82
1. Sule Pagoda Wharves 1-7
Nurnber of vessels                  381            432            447            437
Hours alongside berth             43850          52414          51650         55764
Average occupancy                    72%            85%           84%             91%
2. Brooking Street W4harves 1-2
Number of vessels                    91            114            107            134
Hours alongside berth             12556          14369         14503          15753
Average occupancy                    72%            82%            83%            90%
3. Hteedan Rice Wharf, Hteedan Coal
Wharf and Ahlone Wharf
Number of vessels                    41            101            114            133
Hours alongside berth              6258         15232          16958          21167
Average occupancy                    24%            58%            65%            81%
4. All Deepwater Berths
Number of vessels                   513            647            668            704
Hours alongside berth            62664          82015          83111          92684
Average occupancy                    60%            78%            79%            88%
Actual average Service
Time (days/ship)                 5.1            5,3            5.2            5.5
Estimated average Waiting
Time (days/ship) 1/             0.15           0.92           1.06           2.77
1/ This theoretical estimate has been computed on the basis of the relevant UNCTAD
tables for ship waiting time (UNCTAD: "Part Development", TD/B/C.4/175, Annex II,
Mathematical Techniques) in the general model M/E2/8. Actual congestion-based
waiting times cannot be computed accurately from BPC's own records.
Source: Burma Ports Corporation, Annual Reports for years 1978/79 through
1981/82, (Table V(3)); Appraisal Mission
January 1983



-94-
BURMA                                                                       Chart I
THIRD PORT PROJECT
BPC - Existing Organization Chart
BURMA PORTS CORPORATION
254         10077
MANAGING DIRECTOR
GENERAL MANAGER
ITRAFFIC          MEDICAL            MARINE          CML ENGG.                            MECH. ENGG.        ACCOUNTS            ADMtN.             STORES
DEPT.            DMSION              DEPT.             DEPT.           OUT PORTS            DEPT              DEPr               DEFT.             DEPT.
ARAKAN                             IRRAWADDY                               MON                               TENASSERIM
STATE                              DMSION                                STATE                               DMSION
3  |199                              3  |145                             4  |153                              1  |45
Legend
Staff/Workers
Officers
Source: BPC
November 1982                                                                                                                                      World Barnk-24708



BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
BPC - Proposed Organization Chart
BURMA PORTS CORPORATION
307         11415
MANAGING DIRECTOR
SHIPPING  SMAINE      MEDCML  INNTERAXN                   RA       DDYMOATUADERT                                     MCHONMP         ACUNSUDrN                             SOR
AGENCY                      STATE            DMSION             STATE           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DMSION   D'SO
19X97
27    423  1  250      150     105       5   3-1 188       3     35          9     20         1154  1                  14        33    171          17    17e3              58                 9
TRAJNING
Legend                                                                                                                                                                               DMSION
Sltaf/Workers
Officers
Source: BPC
November 1982                                                                                                                                                                                      World E3nk-24709



BUJRMA
11H1RD PORT PROJECTN
PROJECT IMPLEtAENTATION
| Contalner Depot                   | | |                5)               ) 
ISite Clear           
paving                                                             TL                                            |         | 
Shed Construction            \ \ | | \ l \ \w                                          -               
| Port Lighting                l l I I I I r                               r     l        I l t L I I I
|R e c o n stru c t io n   o f     P o n to o n s    l lL t t111 
o nd  Jetties                                        l                                                          |         
| ManutactureoftPollets        t     t      rt
| Provision of Cargo                                                                          |        |         |        |        |
Handling Eqpt                                                                                
PRovision  dt Conlainev|||||| |   |   |
|Handling Eqpt.                 
| Prov/ision of New Vessels                               rl                     |            | | |
| Renovatlon ot Vessets and                             _
I Provision ot oxy-acetylene                 |        |                                              ll                                   |
I Workshop and Communtcatbons      l l ll \ \ I \ 1                                                                                       }r
| Eqipt. and Buoy Lanterns                  r      r                                     
|D re d g e r O v e r h a u l   l\\l\l\\\\\\\\ll_      
l   .   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t l ~~~~~~~~~Wood Bank-24477
Loan Effective
Loan Approval
Source: Bank Stoff
November 1982



BURMA
THIRD PORT PROJECT
Port of Rangoon
4       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mb
0               \    I --  '*    -}/:-l~~~~~-- 
I I  .. = AN'"UAN             
..~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
t-tPt S : n l S  s                              PORT OF RANGOON - 
_. .                            .--  - - .~--P
-z'~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
KE                        POTLANANOO



AREAS OF DREDGING FOR DEEPENING CHANNEL
TO 15 FEET MINIMUM
9    -      (   S~~~YRfAM
TRANSIT LINES
tv ePf ,,sio   J  LIFFEY  -   - H.W
J._-.DATUM
C sr\HOKE -- --- * -- 3 FATHOMS
CHANNEL DEEPENING
DA SILVA PT        DEVICS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
DANOT/.;! XTHANs
_  ~~ B:s<.r ' | \ \   "K*. '
.     ~0g    2    4    ,_    ,   10       <.  ,\ 
B~~  _   ASSEIN
El~~~~~~IE
o   2 fi        1,0      16             )>s  ,          ''   GR0VE
KILOMETERS             FL      s 'A                    LT
FLATS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~LT
SAI,40~~~~~I,
_/ / ,; - (f \E BAIR
CHINABAK. IREJBA
* / ,) ~~~BP-
7-76



_                                                                        t  ;31wo__.  - z  -----   r
7Ni~~~~~~~
2ANl&;/FESOF/-=                              j                                 = T    EA  vt- ,
lb= Anclaman            (DEVpOiAl iCt-U                                      \ .
|U         ATa~\            ~                                           Z;  >  E1NA5)|t = i~"z-. ; i0=;
912-~~~~~~~
C         |0T=HAlEAl&tD')j .=i            20'      fgk              K><89   T          N2 -.fsi    $= 
(T)~~~~~~~~~~~~F 
BANGL D E                   e S H d-                         -     -
2,-           j:          ,E - 2 a f-   =
ct t: ,Thczf7zad / ,S  -
S       t           02>/< -f=' vO/   '                 ;= Ri)a/;=g- JE=  '=
|  wA N  5 L           A va3 E  /aH N,   {<    = T:; s sZ 2ifj. i;a3ils;  -PEFL
Cm)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L E-Tr                                                R E P
--22'              ift *M ;.  tadny7ot                                                                                            02'ootict @ = - iXs ~ W::T= ..................................... ECf_--
|~~~~~ c-  .. . ................ i'> vtio5   -. Nx$$  ~yl  k ;;                                                             -   03  7e
uy                                              E  kJ-r!|i.r<>uJngR  
| ~ ~~~ B                      K    y-kpyuW8 k, ii Y4a             yg          W            
i -2T   '   .... ,'-/" i
it ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ f
0 tf : X -0 0 0 ; -: - . =t ~~T H' A I L A N D
'~~~~~                                                      ~~~ v'  '                                             ,>,
~~R  A  Y <                                            a
=14. _   =   ;   f4:                        _   C      =    .                 -   : 
- Poved roazds                                                                             ,,        X
- Graveli roasds                                                                       '5 ,-Wj'~~~~
__--_Dirt rods                                              .4 nrY a mao n,ld,
+   -,Sinale tratck railwaly                                                                    "' '              '
- Doubie TrrcK ralilway                                        ea             
~~= Mrain rivers                                                                        MkgC          T
!;Mountain ror. es and forested rarecis_| '- =; j t
. 0Principal rice growing areass--                                                              =.      '    GuI
-._Interorafonral bowl.ndaries                      a.                                             .   .  ,,,d
.  ....... Divislonr.i  boundaries ....... -.;r.o 
,na  A   kD     .     Tha,lar d
-10,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~YYrddn  fd,f erc - rlw fr-                                   =   
o         100       ZCO       300       400             Thedlbia rIt2d MI edIrrt 
01     50       too     I5      20U      250           'Ugetnh,,gltdlo J9' 2"' ,f
M ~    ~       ~       t                                         321sG cea c tsc budnr. 
92-                                            9F                                                         -  -



