Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1 6732
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2868-COB)
June 17, 1997
Private Sector Finance Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Franc CFA (FCFA)
US$ I = FCFA 286 (Exchange rate of July 1987)
US$ 1 = FCFA 580 (Exchange rate of May 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A TC          Agence Transcongolaise de Communication
ADB           African Development Bank
CFD           Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement
CENAGES    Centre National de Gestion
CNC           Commissariat National aux Comptes
CNPS          Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale
CORAF         Congolaise de Raffinage
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EIB           European Investment Bank
ERC           Economic Recovery Credit
GOC           Government of Congo
ILO           International Labour Organization
MOP           Memorandum of the President
ONPT          Office National des Postes et Telecommunications
PCBP          Privatization and Capacity Building Project
PCR           Project Completion Report
PEIDP         Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAL/SAP       Structural Adjustment Loan / Structural Adjustment Program
SNDE          Societ&e Nationale de Distribution d'Eau
SNE           Societe Nationale d'Electricite
UCB           Union Congolaise de Banques
Vice President:                          Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:                         Nil 0. TcheyanX
Technical Manager                         Thomas W. Allen, AFTPI
Task Team Leader:                        Jean-Michel Happi, AFTPI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2868-COB)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............................................                                           ii
Evaluation  Summary  ............................ .........                                    iii
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.    .................                               I
A. Background  ....I.......... .......                                               I
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ......................                        2
C. Achievement of Objectives ...........................                            3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project  .....     ................                  9
E. Project Sustainability .............  ...............    10
F. Bank Performance ..............  ..........                                     11
G. Borrower Performance  ..................1..........                             11
H. Assessment of Outcome  ............................                             12
1. Follow-up Operation ..................                                          12
J. Key Lessons Learned  .............................                              12
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES  ...........................                                    14
Table I : Summary of Assessments .......................    14
Table 2    Related Bank Loans/Credits  .....................                       15
Table 3  : Project Timetable  ..........................                           16
Table 4  : Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......    16
Table 5  : Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .......    17
Table 6  : Studies Included in Project .......................    19
Table 7  : Project Costs  ..................                     ..........    20
Table 8  : Project Financing  ...........................    20
Table 9  : Status of Legal Covenants .......................    21
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................    25
Table I: Bank Resources: Staff Missions  ....... ............    26
APPENDICES .........................................    27
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire   ....        ...  ................    28
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR .33
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2868-COB)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise
Institutional Development Project in Congo, for which Loan 2868-COB in the amount of US$15.2
million was approved on July 21, 1987, and made effective on January 27, 1988. The Loan closed
on April 30, 1997, two years and four months behind schedule. The last disbursement took place
on March 31, 1997, at which time a balance of US$975,616 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Jean-Michel Happi and Lucy Fye, Private Sector Finance
Group, Africa Region. It was reviewed by Messrs. Demba Ba, Senior Operations Officer, lain
Christie, Technical Specialist, and Thomas W. Allen, Technical Manager, Private Sector Finance
Group, Africa Region. The Borrower's evaluation report is included as Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's completion mission of March 2 to 6,
1997. It was based on materials in the Project file, including the Memorandum of the President
(MOP), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, progress reviews and
monitoring reports by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
supplying the views reflected in the final mission's aide-memoire, commenting on the draft ICR
and preparing its evaluation of the Project's implementation.



iii
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2868-COB)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Four years after gaining independence in 1960, Congo opted for a socialist single-party
political system and a centrally-planned economy. Aided until the mid-1980s by a buoyant oil
sector and rising government revenues, this system resulted in more pervasive government in the
economy as public investment increased through public enterprises (PEs). In 1985, there were
over 100 wholly-owned PEs and mixed-economy enterprises with majority government
ownership. These enterprises were involved in most sectors, including manufacturing, services,
agriculture and forestry, in addition to basic utilities in water, electricity, transport and
telecommunications. They accounted for about 20 percent of total modern employment, 11
percent of GDP and one third of domestic credit to the economy. Their performance was
characterized by low productivity, high losses, a rising debt burden and growing illiquidity, which
all became a burden on the banking system, public finances and the balance of payments.
2.    The collapse of world oil prices during the 1980s, compounded by growing overvaluation
of the CFA Franc, sent the economy into a deep and protracted crisis. Economic activity stagnated
and internal imbalances became severe. In order to stop this deterioration, the Government of
Congo (GOC) adopted restrictive stabilization measures beginning in 1982. These efforts were
supported by an IMF Stand-by arrangement concluded in July 1986, and complemented by a
World Bank-funded Structural Adjustment Program (SAP, Ln. 2866-COB), implemented from
October 1987 to March 1989. The SAP gave special emphasis to the PE sector, given its weight in
the economy.
3.    The Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project (PEIDP, Ln. 2868-COB) was
prepared in parallel with the SAP, with the objectives of assisting GOC reform the sector. It was
approved on July 21, 1987, and closed on December 31, 1996. It complemented the Bank-funded
Second Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2753-COB), which was implemented from 1986 to 1990
and focused on policy advice for macroeconomics reforms. To further the privatization program,
GOC prepared, with the assistance from the Bank, the Privatization and Capacity Building Project
(PCBP, Cr. 2775-COB), which is under implementation since January 1996.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The main objective of the PEIDP was to facilitate formulation and implementation of the
SAP. It also aimed at strengthening the GOC's capacity to implement PE reforms and improve
their management, by providing: (a) technical and logistical support to the Government's agencies
in charge of these reforms; (b) short-term consultant services for implementation of general sector
reforms, including liquidation and privatization, banking sector reform, PE staff reduction, and
financial agreements between PEs and Government; (c) management training programs through



iv
CENAGES; (d) auditing and accounting assistance through CNC; (e) advisory services to improve
management and restructure key public utilities, including ONPT (telecommunications), SNDE
(water), SNE (electricity), Hydro-Congo and CORAF (oil), and ATC (transport); and (f)
consultant services for other critical structural adjustment tasks as needed to supplement resources
available under the Second TA Project.
5.     Project activities evolved throughout implementation, to respond to changes in Congo's
environment. These activities are evaluated in the following section.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.     The Project became effective in January 1988 and closed in December 1996. However, its
actual implementation duration was only four years.
7.     First Implementation Period in 1988-1989. The Project was implemented in-a
satisfactory fashion during this period, thanks to the companion SAP which provided policy
guidance, incentives and resources to carry out the reforms. Project activities were clear and
supported by monitorable indicators whose achievement was among the conditions of tranche release of the
SAL.
8.     Suspension Period in 1990-1994. The Project was inactive during this period due to: (a)
social, political and military turmoil in Congo; and (b) Bank's suspension of disbursements in
December 1990. The country further went on non-accrual status from September 1991 to June
1994. During this period, Congo shifted from a centrally-planned to a market-oriented economy.
In this context, the new Government adopted an ambitious privatization program in 1992, which
called for, inter alia, its withdrawal from all commercial and industrial activities.
9.     Second Implementation Period in 1995-1996. After the suspension, the Project was
restructured. GOC carried out a comprehensive reorganization, audit and inventory of assets to
improve the Project management and recover its accounts and equipment which were misplaced
during the civil unrest. The Project was restructured and fully resumed its operations in September
1995, focusing on setting the framework for divestiture, public utility sector restructuring and
financial sector reform. Other Project activities, which were no more consistent with the GOC's
new reform  agenda, were discontinued.  These included activities aiming to improve the
performance of PEs with a view to maintain them in the State portfolio. GOC's reform targets and
implementation schedule were however too ambitious, given its absorptive capacity, limited
privatization experience, lack of tradition of utility regulation, and the heavy financial costs of the
proposed reforms.
10.   In 1995, the GOC prepared, with assistance from the Bank, the PCBP for which Credit
2775-COB, in the amount of SDR 5.8 million, was approved on September 5, 1995, and made
effective on January 5, 1996. This project aimed at furthering the capacity of Government to
implement the second phase of its PE reform program. It was also intended to help Government:
(a) strengthen the regulatory frameworks for the petroleum, transportation, telecommunications,
power and water sectors, and open these sectors up to competition progressively; (b) conduct the
privatization of the five public utilities dominating these sectors; (c) complete the remaining
privatizations; (d) liquidate other non-viable PEs; (e) and support regulation and competition in
the financial sector and reform banking institutions.



V
11.    Achievement of Objectives. Achievement of Project objectives was evaluated in the
broader context of PE sector reforms, taking into account that these reforms were also supported
by, inter alia, four other Bank-funded projects since 1987.
12.    PEIDP  objectives were partially  achieved  and  its overall outcome was rated
unsatisfactory. On the positive side, the Project strengthened the operational and administrative
capacity of the PE Technical Unit and, subsequently, of the Privatization Committee, which
managed the PE reform program. It helped design and implement the legal- and regulatory
framework of reforms, including legislation governing PE interim management, privatization and
liquidation. The Project also helped GOC improve PE corporate governance and institutional
framework. The system of "trilogie dfterminante", under which PEs were jointly managed by a
general director, labor unions and the Party, was discontinued and replaced by a more effective
executive body comprising a general manager and a board of directors.
13.    The Project also did help the Government design and implement a comprehensive
privatization program. Out of the 104 PEs comprising the parastatal sector in 1987, over 70
divestitures were completed, or were in progress, by end-1996. Of these, 17 PEs were fully or
partially privatized, 14 non-viable enterprises and on-going concerns were liquidated, and 34
others were entrusted to private liquidators. All public utilities were put under interim
administration in December 1995. pending their privatization and sector restructuring.
Negotiations were underway with potential private investors in ONPT, SNDE, SNE, Hydro-Congo
and CORAF, and the selection of a consulting firm to advise GOC on ATC privatization was in
progress. Implementation of these actions continued under the PCBP.
14.    However, Project performance was unsatisfactory in other areas, including banking sector
reform, PE employee reduction, settlement of PE cross-debts, management and operational
reforms and implementation of Government's financial agreements with key PEs. The Project also
failed to achieve its objectives in the areas of management training and accounting and auditing
assistance. These activities were to be implemented by CENAGES and CNC, respectively. Both
institutions were specifically designed to support PEs. Their performance was satisfactory until
1990, but declined precipitously after that. In 1995, GOC decided to close CENAGES and
reorient CNC's operations towards auditing of civil services.
15.    Project execution was severely affected by social, political and military turmoil in Congo
between 1990 and 1994. Such a situation obviously had major impacts on Project implementation
and brought to a halt most adjustment measures for over four years. Other factors detrimental to
the Project effectiveness included: delays in Government's counterpart funds, high turnover of
officials in charge of the PE reform program, and opposition to privatization from labor union and
technical ministries until late 1994. The Bank suspended disbursements in December 1990 and
the country went in non accrual status from September 1991 to June 1994.
16.    Project sustainability is uncertain. It remains heavily dependent on political stability, the
pursuit of sound macroeconomics policies, implementation of an appropriate regulatory
framework for public utilities and completion of on-going operations.  Moreover, GOC's
commitment and the broad political base for its PE reform program seem to be weakening as
elections approach, during the second semester of 1997. These risks are somewhat mitigated
under the PCBP which is providing support for completion of the program; it cannot however
substitute for a weakened government commitment.



vi
17.    Bank performance was satisfactory during Project identification, but unsatisfactory during
preparation. The Project design was too ambitious given GOC's absorptive capacity. The risk of
lack of GOC resources to implement key reforms and meet its financial obligations under the
Project was underestimated. Bank performance was also satisfactory during implementation. The
Bank carried out a total of fourteen supervision missions and closely worked with other donors,
particularly CFD and ADB.
18.    Borrower performance was satisfactory during Project preparation, but unsatisfactory
during implementation. Several deficiencies occurred during Project implementation, including
delays in GOC's counterpart funds, poor Project financial management and failures to implement
key reforms.
Key Lessons Learned
19.    Five lessons can be learned from the PEIDP experience:
(a)    Privatization vs. Restructuring. In 1986-1987, when the Project was being
prepared, its approach to PE reform was geared towards restructuring and
strengthening these enterprises' management and financial performance, with a
view to maintain them in the State portfolio. In retrospect, the Bank should have
put privatization and private participation in public utilities as key elements of the
PE reform program, rather than restructuring. This happened only in 1995, when
the Project objectives were shifted to support the GOC's divestiture program. This
lesson was applied from the beginning in the follow-up Privatization and Capacity
Building Project.
(b)    Financial Costs and Obligations of Reforms under TA Projects. Availability of
resources to address the financial costs of reforms is critical to the success of TA
projects. The PEIDP had little impact in key areas, including banking sector
reform, PE cross-debt settlement and staff reduction, mainly because of
Government's budgetary constraints. The Project could have been more effective
if a strategy to fund the costs and obligations of these reforms had been
established at the beginning. These issues should have been appraised during the
Project design and preparation.
(c)    Importance of Consensus Building and Stakeholder Participation. Effective
consensus building and stakeholder participation were key ingredients for
successful divestiture as of 1995. Government commitment was identified as a
major risk to project implementation. Since 1995, the Government built a large
consensus on its reform program and held extensive consultations with key
stakeholders, including labor unions, PE managers, technical ministries and the
Parliament. Once their support was secured, the Government was then able to
launch and promptly implement its ambitious privatization program.
(d)    PE Interim Management. The transfer of PE management responsibilities to
interim administrators and private liquidators was instrumental to improve these
enterprises' management and financial control and reduce line ministries'
interference into their operations, prior to their privatization or liquidation. The



vii
competitive selection of private liquidators also improved the credibility and
transparency of these operations.
(e)    Project Scope. In retrospect, the Project was overly ambitious gi.ven GOC's
implementation and absorptive capacity. Extension of its closing date proved to
be effective for realization of some of Project's objectives and at the same time
provided adequate support for the preparation of the follow-up Privatization and
Capacity Building Project.



I



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2868-COB)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    Until the mid-1980s, Congo's economy was characterized by its excessive dependence on
the oil sector, which accounted for about 40 percent of GDP, 90 percent of exports and nearly 70
percent of fiscal revenues. Its development strategy emphasized public control over major
economic activities and a strong bias towards direct State intervention. Important revenues during
the oil boom years led the Government of Congo (GOC) to expand public employment, make
ambitious infrastructure investments and public enterprises (PEs), which were its favored
instruments for development.
2.    In 1985, there were over 100 wholly-owned PEs and mixed-economy enterprises with
majority government ownership. These enterprises were involved in most sectors, including
manufacturing, services, agriculture and forestry, in addition to basic utilities in water, electricity,
transport and telecommunications.  They accounted for about 20 percent of total modern
employment, 11 percent of GDP and one third of domestic credit to the economy. Their
performance was characterized by low productivity, high losses, rising debt burden and growing
illiquidity with a concurrent burden on the banking system, public finances and the balance of
payments. By the end of 1986, non-performing loans to PEs were equivalent to 120 percent of
commercial banks' equity base. Outstanding foreign and domestic debts on their behalf exceeded
CFAF 550 billion. The sector's poor performance was mainly due to lack of financial and
economic viability, loose financial discipline, inappropriate macroeconomic and incentive
policies, deficiencies in the legal and institutional framework, and poor enterprise management.
3.     When oil prices began to decline during the 1980's, Congo's economic situation rapidly
became untenable. Escalating budgetary and external deficits, and the heavy burden on the
economy of the large and badly managed public sector, led the GOC to adopt restrictive
stabilization measures beginning in 1982. These efforts were supported by an IMF Stand-by
arrangement concluded in July 1986, and complemented by a World Bank-funded Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP, Ln. 2866-COB), under implementation from October 1987 to March
1989. GOC's objectives under the SAP was embodied in its Letter of Development Policy dated
June 15, 1987.
4.     The SAP gave special emphasis to the PE sector, given its weight in the economy. The
Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project (PEIDP, Ln. 2868-COB) was prepared and
approved in parallel with the SAP, with the objectives of assisting GOC reform the sector. It
complemented the Bank-funded Second Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2753-COB), under
implementation from 1986 to 1990, whose support focused on policy advice for macroeconomics
reforms.



2
B.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
5.     The main objectives of the PEIDP were to assist the GOC in the formulation and
implementation of reforms and in the rehabilitation of the PE sector under the SAP. The Project
was intended to strengthen GOC's ability to monitor and devise institutional and financial policies
for the sector. An additional objective was to help GOC elaborate further macroeconomic and
sectoral reforms to be implemented in the medium-term and provide assistance for
implementation.
6.     Project objectives with respect to the PE sector were clear and supported by monitorable
activities whose implementation was among the conditions of tranche release of the Structural
Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2866-COB). Objectives aiming to improve GOC's capacity to manage the
sector might have been attainable and realistic under normal circumstances but became
unattainable as the political and economic environment deteriorated. However, even the original
divestiture and public utility restructuring targets were overly ambitious, given GOC's institutional
capacity, lack of privatization experience and the large financial costs of these actions.
7.    The Project was important for both the GOC and the Bank, as it sought to address PE
reforms, at the core of Congo's adjustment program. Its implementation was intended to parallel
that of the SAP which provided the policy and incentive framework, as well as the resources to
finance the reforms. The PEIDP was the first attempt to carry out PE reforms on such a
comprehensive basis in Congo. It followed a general sector overview and a PE investment review
carried out in May 1985 and May 1986, respectively, which complemented past Bank experience
in selected enterprises, notably water supply (SNDE), electricity (SNE), telecommunications
(ONPT), transport (ATC) and petroleum (Hydro-Congo).
8.    Implementing the Project was very demanding on the GOC, given its level of
administrative capacity. Implementation was entrusted to an Interministerial Steering Group,
chaired by the Prime Minister, which was created in 1985 to supervise the preparation and
implementation of the SAP. From 1987 to 1994, the Project was managed by a Technical Unit in
the Prime Minister's Office to support the Steering Group on PE issues. In November 1994, GOC
created a Privatization Committee under the Ministry of Plan to conduct the reform process and
execute the Project.
9.     A critical risk associated with the Project was the economic crisis and GOC's lack of
resources to fully implement the program. Important donor mobilization in support of Congo's
adjustment efforts helped mitigate this risk. However, the country's financial crisis was so critical
that several reforms requiring the infusion of cash had to be deferred, and some of them were not
completed at Project closing date. There was also a risk that GOC's commitment might falter if
political support was not maintained. Unanticipated social, political and military disruptions
brought reforms to a halt in the country between 1990 and 1993. However, after the disruptions,
GOC showed a strong commitment to continue the PE reform process. GOC prepared, with the
assistance from the Bank, the Privatization and Capacity Building Project (PCBP, Cr. 2775-COB),
which is under implementation since January 1996. The risk of a shortfall of GOC's counterpart
funds was underestimated at the outset. As it was, these funds were not made available in a timely
manner.



3
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF MAJOR OBJECTIVES
10.    The Project achieved only marginal degrees of success, and with some delay. Key
performance indicators for the implementation and operation of the project are listed in Table 5
of Part II of this Report. They were, however, often intangible and difficult to quantify. They
included time-bound execution schedule, but no benchmarks to measure Project outcomes.
Achievement of Project objectives was evaluated in the broader context of PE sector reforms,
taking into account that these reforms were also supported by, inter alia, four other Bank-funded
projects since 1987.
11.    The PEIDP had six components: (i) institutional support to the PE Technical Unit; (ii)
general sector reform, including divestiture, PE cross-debt review, banking sector reform, PE
personnel management review, and preparation of financial agreements between GOC and PEs;
(iii) a management training program; (iv) auditing and accounting assistance; (v) management and
organizatiot.al reforms of key PEs, including SNDE, SNE, ATC, ONPT and Hydro-Congo; and
(vi) support to structural adjustment tasks. Following is an assessment of achievement of each of
these component:
(a)    Institutional Support to the PE Technical Unit. The Project's main objective
under this component was to enable the PE Technical Unit to implement the PE
reform program and improve sector management. The Project financed technical
and logistical support to strengthen the operational and administrative capacity of
this Unit and, subsequently, of the Privatization Committee, which played a
catalytic role to ensure Government internalization of these reforms. The Project
also helped design the legal and regulatory framework of reforms, including
legislation governing liquidation, privatization and PE interim management, and
monitor the implementation of specific PE action plans. The Unit and Committee
successfully conducted discussions with key stakeholders, including labor unions,
PE managers and technical ministries, to reinforce broad consensus for the
reforms.
The Project also helped GOC improve PE corporate govemance and institutional
framework. The system of "trilogie determinante", under which PEs were jointly
managed by a general director, labor unions and the Party, was discontinued. It
was replaced by an executive corporate structure including a general manager and
a board of directors. Enterprises earmarked for divestiture were put under interim
management to reduce the interference of line ministries into their operations and
facilitate their transfer to private sector. It is however recommended to strengthen
the executive bodies of enterprises that would remain in the State portfolio (e.g.,
postal services, port authorities), in order to grant these enterprises full autonomy
in their day-to-day management and make their boards more effective and
accountable.  Achievement of Project objectives under this component was
partial.
(b)    General Sector Reform. The Project achieved mixed results in implementing the
different elements of this component.
(i)  Formulation and Implementation of the Divestiture Program  and
Industrial Policies. The Project supported the preparation and execution



4
of an overall recovery plan for over 85 PEs. GOC's initial intentions were
to: (i) rehabilitate seven priority PEs, including six utilities and a sugar
refinery, in which the State would remain majority shareholder; (ii) open
35 PEs up to competition, which, while remaining under State ownership,
would operate under market conditions; and (iii) divest 34 PEs through
privatization or liquidation. Further reforms for the remaining PEs were
to be defined in the course of the project. Implementation of this plan was
monitored under the SAP. At the end of the SAP, in 1989, 16 enterprises
were divested and the process was underway for 10 others.
(ii)   Between 1990 and 1994, Project implementation stopped due to social and
political unrest in Congo and GOC's severe budgetary constraints. The
Bank suspended disbursements in December 1990 and the country went in
non accrual status from September 1991 to June 1994.
(iii)  In November 1994, after a PE sector review carried out with Bank's
support, GOC reassessed its plans for the sector with a view to accelerate
and deepen its reform program. It adopted a more ambitious action plan
which called for, inter alia: (a) privatization of public utilities; (b)
privatization of 39 commercially-oriented PEs; and (c) liquidation of
about 43 non-viable PEs and on-going concerns. This plan reflected the
new Government's desire to accelerate Congo's shift to a market-based
economy, and to put an end to the era of centrally-planned economic
management of the  past three  decades.   Its  preparation  and
implementation were supported by both PEIDP and PCBP.
(iv)   Substantial progress was achieved at PEIDP closing. Out of the 104 PEs
comprising the parastatal sector in 1987, over 70 divestitures were
completed, or were in progress, by end- 1996. Of these, 17 PEs were fully
or partially privatized, 14 non-viable enterprises and on-going concerns
were liquidated, and 34 others were entrusted to private liquidators. All
public utilities were put under interim administration in December 1995,
pending their privatization and sector restructuring. Negotiations were
underway with potential private investors in ONPT, SNDE, SNE, Hydro-
Congo and CORAF, and the selection of a consulting firm to advise GOC
on ATC privatization was in progress. Implementation of these actions
continued under the PCBP.
(v)   PE Cross-Debt Review. The Project financed the services of consultants
to help GOC prepare a plan to settle PE cross-debt. However, the plan
was not implemented because of the PE liquidity crisis and GOC's
financial constraints. Not only that, the PEs continued to accumulate
further debt over time, as a result of barter trade of goods and services
during the civil turmoil. As of December 1995, cross-arrears in the PE
sector amounted to CFAF 213 billion, as compared to CFAF 85 billion in
1985.  Achievement of Project objectives under this category was
negligible.



5
(vi)   Banking Sector Reform. Project-funded consultants helped GOC carry out
a diagnosis study and action plan to reform the banking sector. This study
was completed in 1988.  It provided for, inter alia, new  banking
regulations, a scheme to settle PE debt, recapitalization proposals for
selected banks and strengthening of their management. GOC implemented
the study's recommendation to enforce BEAC's rules, including strict
credit ceilings for PEs. By end-1995, banks' credits to PEs were reduced
to eight percent of total credit to the economy, as compared to over 33
percent in 1986. A draft new Banking Law, harmonizing the legal
framework for bank supervision at the regional level, was adopted by
GOC in June 1996 and is awaiting approval by the Parliament.
(vii)  In 1989, the Bank estimated total financing requirement to restructure the
whole sector at about CFAF 43 billion.  Because of this financial
constraint, implementation of the restructuring plan was initially limited
to one Bank (UCB). The Government, however, established a Finance
Sector Restructuring Committee to progressively execute this plan. In
1992, GOC liquidated the country's second largest bank (BCC) and, later,
the National Development Bank (BNDC).  In 1995, GOC initiated
discussions with foreign investors to privatize, merge or liquidate other
State-owned banks (e.g., BIDC, UCB). In addition, GOC sought grant
assistance from Japan to finance audits and evaluations necessary to carry
out these tasks. Completion of these reforms is being monitored within the
framework of preparatory reforms for a pending structural adjustment
credit. Achievement of Project objectives under this component was
partial.
(viii)  Personnel Management Reform. The Project helped prepare a study on
PE employee remuneration and legal texts revising PE statutes.  PE
personnel status was changed from Civil Service Status to Labor Code,
which governs private sector employees. The Project also helped assess
the costs of, and implement, retrenchment programs. Personnel cuts were
effective and considerable under the SAP. Over 3500 PE employees,
representing 10 percent of the sector workforce, were laid off by end-
1989. However, once the SAP conditionalities were met, these efforts
were discontinued and most PEs launched new recruitment regardless of
their productivity. GOC therefore failed to achieve the original targets of
30 percent of PE staff reduction, which it had agreed upon under the
Project.
(ix)   Staff reductions proved difficult to implement because of: (i) lack of
safety nets and bankruptcy of social security systems; (ii) GOC's
budgetary constraints which limited payments of separation benefits; and
(iii) limited job opportunities in the private sector for retrenched workers.
To address the redundancy costs of PE reforms, GOC increased its annual
budgetary allocations to implement employee compensation plans. These
allocations amounted to CFAF 15 billion in 1995 and were further
increased in 1996. At the same time, the Project funded a diagnosis/audit
of social security funds (CNPS and CREF), with a view to reestablish



6
their long-term viability. This work is being monitored under the PCBP.
Achievement of PEIDP objectives under this component was negligible.
(x)    Preparation of Financial Agreements with Key PEs. The project helped
prepare financial agreements for SNE, SNDE, ATC, ONPT, SUCO,
Hydro-Congo and CORAF over a period of six years. These agreements
defined reciprocal financial obligations between the State and each
enterprise. Their implementation was postponed mainly due to financial
difficulties of GOC. It was further canceled following GOC's decision to
privatize these enterprises. PEIDP achievements under this component
were negligible.
(c)    Management Training Program. This component was to support the preparation
and implementation of a comprehensive training program for PE and Government
officials. Its main objectives were to: (a) fill the gaps in the skills required to
implement the PE sector reforms; (b) strengthen managerial skills in business
administration, accounting and personnel administration whose weakness has in
the past contributed to poor PE performance; and (c) develop in-house training
capabilities through a local training institution (CENAGES), which would manage
the program.
Until 1991, CENAGES organized about 42 weeks equivalent of training courses
on most of the above subjects for over 80 PE and Government employees, and
produced relevant training materials. These courses were implemented in close
coordination with ILO  and UJNDP.  CENAGES training programs were
specifically targeted for PEs. They became irrelevant when GOC decided to
privatize most of these enterprises. As a result, GOC subsequently decided to
close this institution. Achievement of PDIEP objectives under this component
was negligible.
(d)    Accounting and Auditing Assistance. Project objectives under this category were
to: (a) finance the National Accounting Commission (CNC) to continue its
program of audits of about 20 PEs per year; (b) prepare an accounting manual;
and (c) train CNC personnel.
CNC met its annual auditing targets until 1991 but after that its performance
declined precipitously. It designed accounting manuals to improve procedures
and control in PEs. Training of its personnel however fell short of expectations.
This was due to the fact that CNC: (i) was unable to retain its staff once they had
been trained; (ii) had no control over its recruitment policy and was inadequately
staffed; and (iii) did not enjoy the confidence of many PEs which had their
accounts audited by private firms as well as CNC.
During the July 1991 supervision mission, the Bank recommended to review CNC
role and reorganize its services to make it more competitive and efficient. CNC
did not implement these recommendations, due to its management's resistance to
change its mandate. After a comprehensive review of its operations, the Bank
concluded that CNC training costs were disproportionate to its performance. GOC
had spent over US$ 5.5 million to train about 25 CNC auditors in four years. Yet,



7
CNC's operations were still uncompetitive and inefficient. Project assistance to
CNC was subsequently discontinued. CNC was an institution specifically
designed for PEs. It became almost inactive when GOC decided to privatize most
of these enterprises. GOC subsequently decided to reorient its operations towards
civil services. Looking back, the Project developed auditing expertise in the
private sector but GOC's capacity in this domain had remained weak.
Achievement of Project objectives under this component was negligible.
(e)    Management and Organizational Reform of Key PEs. The Projects initial
objectives under this component were to help improve the management
performance of SNDE, SNE, ATC, ONPT and HYDRO-CONGO. Following
GOC's decision in 1994 to open these enterprises to private investors, the Project
further supported their restructuring and privatization, and the preparation of
policy strategies and regulatory frameworks for their different sectors.
Achievements under this component varied in degree of satisfaction due to delays
in implementation.
(i)    SNDE (Water) and SNE (Electricity). The project helped prepare
comprehensive reorganization plans for both sectors and companies.
These plans included measures to, inter alia: (i) design new regulatory
frameworks that would allow private sector participation; (ii) terminate
SNDE's and SNE's monopoly status and encourage competition; and (iii)
prepare concession arrangements with private investors. Implementation
of these plans started in 1996. As a result of pre-qualification bids, GOC
had pre-selected four operators for SNDE and five for SNE, by end- 1996.
These operators further formed consortium to compete for and manage
both water and electricity sectors. The bidding documents were then
being revised to accommodate merging the two sectors. Completion of
these plans is monitored under the PCBP.
(ii)    ONPT (Post and Telecommunications). The Project financed technical
assistance to strengthen ONPT's capabilities in investment programming,
maintenance, auditing and accounting, billing and personnel management.
It also helped computerize its accounting system, decentralize its financial
management, and implement an efficient tariff policy which allowed
financial equilibrium and cost-recovery of ONPT services. Most of these
tasks were funded out of the PPF.
The Project further financed a study which guided the separation of ONPT
into postal, telecommunications and financial services, respectively, and
the design of new telecommunications regulations. This separation was
effective in August 1996. GOC subsequently launched the privatization
of the telecommunications enterprise (SET). A major private operator
was pre-selected under a competitive bidding process.  However,
negotiations were unsuccessful and GOC plans to reopen the tender of this
company, with a view to improving the privatization terms. The Project
also helped design a plan to improve the postal services. Completion of
these reforms is monitored under the PCBP.



8
(iii)   ATC (River, Rail and Port Services). The Project complemented funding
to ATC provided under the First TA Project (Ln. 2285-COB). It helped
design and implement a management information system and new tariff
policies. It also financed the preparation of studies to privatize ATC's
peripheral activities, and a comprehensive reorganization study to fully
divest its core operations. ATC will be separated into three entities: (i)
Ports de Pointe Noire et Brazzaville, two commercially-oriented port
authorities; (ii) Voies Navigables, Ports et Transports Fluviaux, a river
transport company to be privatized; and (iii) Chermin de Fer Congo-
Ocean, a railroad company to be operated by private sector under
concession arrangements. Implementation of these measures continues
under the PCBP.
(iv)   Hydro-Congo (Oil Sector). The project funded two advisors to assist in
the management and implementation of this company's rehabilitation
program that started in 1983. It also financed a comprehensive study to
help GOC design and implement its oil sector strategy. This strategy
aimed to: (a) improve the GOC's role in sector policy formulation and
regulation; (b) lease the State-owned refinery - CORAF; and (c) transfer
all other commercial activities to private sector, including production,
transport and distribution.
(v)    A bidding process for such privatization was launched in 1996. In June
1996, eight bids were evaluated and three of them were prequalified for
negotiation. Following the withdrawal of one candidate, GOC started
negotiations with the two remaining bidders in November 1996. The
negotiations have not been concluded due to difference on the tariff
policies, including price structure and adjustment mechanisms.
Completion of this operation is monitored under the PCBP.
(f)    Support to Structural Adjustment Tasks. Under this component, the PEIDP
financed technical assistance to strengthen GOC's debt management agency
(CCA), and helped computerize its operations. At the closing of the Second TA
Project in December 1990, the Bank and GOC reviewed possible follow-up
activities that could be further financed under the PEIDP. These included: (a)
auditing of the petroleum sector; (b) strengthening of the capacities of relevant
Government departments in public finances, statistical analysis, economic
forecasting and civil service reform; and (c) economic advice to the Office of the
President. The Project funded consultants' services to support GOC's efforts in
these areas. Implementation of this component was satisfactory.
The PEIDP closed on December 31, 1996, two years behind schedule. GOC and
the Bank agreed to extend the closing date by one year for the first time, mainly to
prepare the reforms envisaged under the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC,
approved and fully disbursed in 1994). In this context, the Project financed
technical assistance to the Interministerial Steering Committee in charge of
coordinating and monitoring ERC's adjustment reforms. It also funded advisory
services to establish the institutional framework for the privatization of key PEs,
including  regulations  for  water  supply  (SNDE),  electricity  (SNE),



9
telecommunications (ONPT), transport (ATC) and petroleum (Hydro-Congo)
sectors. The second extension was to: further support the above Committee; audit
the social security funds and set up temporary mechanisms for payment of
retirement pensions; and fund advisory services for closing on-going liquidation
of PEs. All these activities were integral parts of the PEIDP's initial objectives.
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
12.    Project implementation was affected by three series of factors:
(a)    Factors not Subject to Government Control. Critical factors under this category
included social, political and militarv turmoil in Congo between 1990 and 1994,
which led to Bank suspension of disbursements to Congo in December 1990. The
country further went on non-accrual status from September 1991 to June 1994.
These events had major impacts on Project implementation, as they brought to a
halt most reforms. Confronted with severe budgetary constraints, GOC was
unable to implement any reforii requiring infusion of cash (e.g., privatization,
banking sector restructuring, cross-debt settlement and employee reduction), until
IDA and French support was made available. The events also severely delayed
Banik supervision missions and consultant assignments. Moreover, most Project
files, accounting records and assets were misplaced during this period. In June
1995, GOC carried out a comprehensive audit and inventory of assets, to
reestablish the Project accounts and recover its equipment. It recruited new staff
and auditors and the Project fully resumed its operations around September 1995.
However, the Project lost most of its institutional memory in this process.
(b)    Factors Subject to Government Control. Factors under this category had a
moderate impact on the Project. They included:
(i)   C(ounterpart Funds. There were substantial delays in the release of these
funds throughout the Project. This delayed payments of most consultants
and suppliers. GOC however made the funds available in 1995, after the
Bank threatened to suspend disbursements again.
(ii)    Vested Interests. The divestiture program incurred substantial delays due
to resistance from vested interests, including labor unions and technical
ministries, who were opposed to privatization.  This resistance was
overcome thanks to GOC's commitment and its efforts to seek broad
consensus and political support for its reform program. After several
consultations with PE stakeholders, most of them finally agreed on the
path and pace of these reforms. GOC's privatization agenda, embodied in
its Letter of Development Polic, dated July 24, 1995, was also discussed
and approved by the Parliament.
(iii)   Liquidation Regulations.  Ministerial interference in PE liquidation to
maintain control over certain operating assets compromised the
transparency and credibility of these operations. These problems were
partially solved when GOC decided to entrust the concerned PEs to



l0
private  liquidators  selected  on  a  competitive  basis.   However,
implementation of liquidation encountered some problems due to lack of
clear property rights, legal contentionis at court from various stakeholders
and physical degradation of assets to be divested.
(c)    Factors Subject to the Implementing Agencies' Control.  Factors under this
category had a significant impact on the Project. They included:
(i)    Changes in Institutional Structures. Fransfer of the project implementing
unit from the Prime Minister's Office to the Ministry of Planning and
excessive rotations of staff caused institutional instability and limited the
project's effectiveness. High turn-over of Government officials in charge
of the PE reform program reduced the impact of their training on project
implementation.
(ii)    Financial Management. Poor financial management adversely affected
Project  implementation,  which  necessitated  substantial  additional
supervision inputs from the Bank. Project funds in the special account
were mismanaged on several occasions. However, GOC reimbursed these
funds in 1995-96, according to schedules agreed upon with the Bank. It
also took corrective action to prevent the recurrence of these problems,
including adoption of new accounting system and procedure manuals,
improvement of internal financial control system and appointment of
external auditors.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
13.    The sustainability of the Project is uncertain. The Project strengthened the GOC's capacity
in PE reforms and set a platform for its ambitious privatization program. This program included
the country's largest PEs and sectors which were considered as "strategic" in most African
countries, including telecommunications, water, energy and transport. The PEIDP was also
instrumental to achieve the SAL adjustment reforms. The PCR on this operation stated that "Most
of the limited progress realized during the SAL program period was attributable to the technical
assistance and project preparation activities undertaken in parallel with it." (PCR, para. 49).
14.    Sustainability of the Project remains heavily dependent on the completion of on-going
operations, including: divestiture  actions; implementation  of well-functioning  regulatory
frameworks in water, electricity, oil, transport and telecommunications sectors; PE cross-debt
settlement; banking sector reform; and PE employee retrenchment. The long-term success of the
Project will also depend on political stability in Congo, the pursuit of sound macroeconomic
policies, and private sector supply responses, which would ultimately provide new sources of
economic growth, investment financing for enterprise development, and job opportunities for
retrenched workers.
15.    GOC's commitment and the broad political base of its PE reform program enhance the
prospects of lasting benefits of the Project. Over the short run, the PCBP provides support for
completing this program. However, it is recommended to closely monitor the above reforms in
the framework of GOC's policy dialogue with the Bank, in order to mitigate the risks of policy
reversal, particularly in the oil, telecommunications, transport and financial sectors.



11
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
16.   Bank performance was mixed. As reported in the PCR on the parallel Structural
Adjustment Program, the Bank's performance in identification was satisfactory. However, it was
unsatisfactory in project preparation. The project design was too ambitious given GOC's
absorptive capacity. The risk of lack of GOC resources to implement key reforms and meet its
financial obligations under the Project, including counterpart funds, was underestimated.
Moreover, most Project performance indicators were intangible and difficult to quantify.
17.    Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. The Project had a prompt
start-up thanks to the comprehensive preparatory work that was undertaken under the PPF. The
Bank carried out a total of 14 supervision missions. Seven missions took place from 1988 to 1989,
covering both Project and SAP. Two missions in 1990 and one in 1991 focused on the Project
alone. The other four missions occurred between 1994 and 1996, covering both the PEIDP and the
preparation and supervision of the PCBP. The deteriorating environment in Congo since 1990
made Project supervision more demanding. During the civil turmoil, the Project was rated
unsatisfactory on both accounts of implementation status and development impact. The Bank
initiated actions to close the Project, but it was held open at GOC request. Bank staff perceived
the country's shift from a centrally-planned to a market-oriented economy and the new GOC's
privatization program, as a window of opportunity to accelerate and deepen the PE sector reforms.
The Bank kept the Project open to help GOC implement these reforms.
18.    The Bank helped GOC restructure the Project in 1995, prior to resume its operations. The
Project was subsequently implemented in parallel with the PCBP, and both had satisfactory
performance. Bank staff were able to maintain these Projects on track thanks to effective
monitoring, flexible adaptation and consistent policy advice to key Government officials. The
Bank also worked closely with other donors, particularly CFD, ADB and EIB.
G.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
19.    Borrower performance was satisfactory during Project preparation, but unsatisfactory
during implementation. Several deficiencies occurred during the Project implementation. They
are mentioned in the status of compliance with major covenants of the Credit Agreement, in Table
9 of Part II. They included delays in the provision of counterpart funds, poor Project financial
management and failure to implement key reforms.
20.    However, since 1995, the Government clearly identified itself with, and demonstrated a
strong commitment to, PE reforms. This was reflected by various factors, including its success in
building broad consensus on these reforms among the civil society, appointment of senior
Government officials at key responsibilities for Project implementation, enactment of legislation
to advance the reforms (e.g., privatization law, liquidation law, petroleum law), and timely
privatization of major public utilities. This commitment however seemed to be weakening as
elections approach, during the second semester of 1997.



12
H.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
21.    Measured against the initial objectives of the PE reform program, the outcome of the
PEIDP was unsatisfactory. Positive achievements under the Project included: (a) strengthening of
GOC's institutional capacity to carry out these reforms; (b) building of foundations for a
comprehensive divestiture program, including political acceptance of the program by key
stakeholders, enactment of an enabling legislation, completion of 31 divestitures and launching of
over 40 others; and (c) effective technical assistance which helped GOC implement key policy
reforms under the SAL and ERC.
22.    However, many measures envisaged under the PEIDP were not completed, including PE
cross-debt settlement, banking sector restructuring and PE staff reduction. These reforms will need
to be completed and reinforced under the PCBP.  The Project also failed to implement
management and operational reforms of, and financial agreements with, key PEs.  These
enterprises were therefore divested as on-going concerns. Achievement of Project objectives was
also unsatisfactory in the areas of management training and accounting and auditing assistance.
I.     FOLLOW-UP OPERATION
23.    As indicated above, the GOC prepared, with assistance from the Bank, the Privatization
Capacity Building Project, for which Credit 2775-COB, in the amount of SDR 5.8 million, was
approved on September 5, 1995, and became effective on January 5, 1996. This project aimed at
furthering the capacity of Government to implement the second phase of its reform program
started under the ERC. It also intended to help GOC: (a) strengthen the regulatory frameworks for
the petroleum, transportation, telecommunications, power and water sectors, and open these
sectors up to competition progressively; (b) conduct the privatization of the five major public
utilities dominating these sectors; (c) complete the remaining privatizations; (d) liquidate other
non-viable PEs; and (e) support regulation and competition in the financial sector and reform
banking institutions.
J.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
24.    Several lessons can be learned from the PEIDP experience:
25.    Privatization vs. Restructuring. In 1986-1987, when the Project was being prepared, its
approach to PE reform was geared towards restructuring and strengthening these enterprises'
management and financial performance, with a view to maintain them in the State portfolio. In
retrospect, the Bank should have put privatization and private participation in public utilities as
key elements of the PE reform program, rather than restructuring. This happened only in 1995,
when the Project objectives were shifted to support the GOC's divestiture program. This lesson
was applied from the beginning in the follow-up Privatization and Capacity Building Project.
26.    Financial Costs and Obligations of Reforms under TA Projects.  Availability of
resources to address the financial costs of reforms is critical to the success of TA projects. The
PEIDP had little impact in key areas, including banking sector reform, PE cross-debt settlement
and staff reduction, mainly because of Government's budgetary constraints. The Project could
have been more effective if a strategy to fund the costs and obligations of these reforms had been



13
established at the beginning. These issues should have been appraised during the Project design
and preparation.
27.    Importance  of Consensus Building  and  Stakeholder Participation.   Effective
consensus building and stakeholder participation were key ingredients for successful divestiture as
of 1995. Government commitment was identified as a major risk to project implementation. Since
1995, the Government built a large consenlsus on its reform  program  and held extensive
consultations with key stakellolders. including labor unions, PE managers, technical ministries and
the Parliament. Once their support was secured, the Gjovernmenit was then able to launch and
promptly implement its ambitious privatization program.
28.    PE Interim  Management. 'I'he transfer of PE management responsibilities to interim
administrators and private liquidators was instrumiiental to improve these enterprises' management
and financial control and reduce line ministries' interference into their operations, prior to their
privatization or liquidation. The competitive selection of private liquidators also improved the
credibility and transparency of these operations.
29.    Project Scope. In  retrospect. the  Project was overly  ambitious  given  GOC's
implementation and absorptive capacity. Extension of its closing date proved to be effective for
realization of some of Project's objectives and at the same time provided adequate support for the
preparation of the follow-up Privatization and Capacity Building Project.



14
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2868-COB)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summarv of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies    .                      E
Sector policies E
Financial objectives       .                                                      i
Institutional development                         0
Physical objectives                                               0
Poverty reduction                  -              -
Gender concerns                                                                   0
Other social objectives    *                                      0
Environmental objectives          ,0
Public sector management                          0
Private sector development                        0
B. Project Sustainability          Likely            IUnlikely              Uncertain
C. Bank Performance          Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                      O                    El                    O
Preparation assistance     .        O                                          0
Appraisal                           E                    O                     0
Supervision                         El                   E                     O
D. Borrower Performance     Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                         O                    E                     E
Implementation             .        O                                          0
Covenant compliance                 E                    E                     0
Operation                           E                    0                     E
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
,              El             0z               El



15
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                      Year of    Status
Approval::
Preceding Operations'
Loan 2285-COB             To improve: (a) the quality of Governments    1983    Closed on
First Technical           public finance management; and (b) the execution        06/30/87
Assistance Project        of its urban infrastructure program.
(PCR No. 8834 dated 06/01/90)
Loan 2753-COB             To help the Government: (i) design and implement    1986   Closed on
Second Technical          measures to promote growth  in the non-oil              12/31/90
Assistance Project        productive sectors; (ii) improve public investment
programming and the management of public
finances, including debt management; and (iii)
formulate a more effective petroleum strategy.
(PCR No. 10792 dated 06/01/92)
Simultaneous Operation
Loan 2866-COB             To assist the Government: (a) re-establish overall   1987   Closed on
First Structural          financial equilibrium, independent of the vagaries      03/31/89
Adjustment Loan           of the oil market: (b) lay the foundations for
durable economic growth over the medium-term,
with strong emphasis on development of non-oil
sectors;  (c)  diversify  productive  activities,
especially in agriculture; and (d) restore Congo's
creditworthiness.
(PPAR No. 9745 dated 06/01/91)
Following Operations
Credit 2635-COB           To support the Government: (i) improve public   1994   Closed on
Economic Recovery         sector efficiency through better public resource        06/30/94
Credit                    management and PE reforms: (ii) strengthen the
country's production capacity through trade and
regulatory reforms and remove impediments to
sectoral development, including private sector;
and (iii) develop human resources and reduce I
poverty.
(ICR No. 15765 dated 06/21 /96)
Credit 2775-COB           To help the Government: (a) prepare regulatory    1995    On-going
Privatization and Capacity  framework for the six major PEs and open the
Building Project          sectors up to competition  progressively; (b)
conduct the privatization of these PEs; (c)
liquidate other non-viable PEs; and (d) support
regulation and competition in the financial sector
and reforms in banking institutions.



16
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in Program Cycle                  Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification                                May 1986                     October 1986
Preparation                                                                November 1986
Appraisal                                     March 2, 1987                 March 3  1987
Negotiations                                  May26, 1987                   May29, 1987
Letter of Sector Policy                       June 15, 1987                June 15, 1987
Board presentation                            July 21, 1987                July 21, 1987
Signing                                      July 31, 1987                 July 31, 1987
Effectiveness                                 September 1987               Januarv 27, 1988
Project completion                            September 30, 1994           December 31, 1996
Loan closing                                  December 31, 1994            April 30,1997
Table 4. Loan Disbursements  Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(JS$ million)   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996       1997
Appraisal
estimate        2.4     4.5     7.1     9.9    12.4    14.3    15.2    15.2    15.2        15.2
Actual          5.1     8.3    10.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.6       . 7      14.2
Actual as %
ofestimate    213%    184%. 142%    112%. 90%. 78%. 73%                  76%     90%       93%
Date of final disbursement: March 31, 1997



17
Tables 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Major Activities               Timetable                     Status
1. Project Management                                    Technical Unit was created in June
1987 and replaced by a Privatization
(a) Create a Technical Unit          June 1987          Committee in November 1994. Annual
(b) Adopt a yearly work program      December 1987-91   work programs were adopted
throughout project implementation,
except during suspension.
2. Legal Framework
(a) Adopt privatization and liquidation    June 1987    D)one
regulations
(b) Prepare new procurement          June 1987          Done
regulations
(c) Review legal and institutional   December 1988      Partially executed
framework of PEs.
3. Privatization of the Sector
(a) Launch liquidation, name and     June 1987          Substantial progress
coordinate liquidators
(b) Manage privatization efforts.    June 1987-89       Substantial progress
4. Financial Discipline
(a) Prepare cross-debt settlement plan  September 1987  [)one
(b) Implement and monitor above plan    1988-1989       Not executed
5. Banking Sector Restructuring
(a) Monitor sector study             June-October 1987   Done, study is being implemented.
(b) Prepare PE debt settlement plan  December 1987      Done, but plan was not implemented
(c) Review banking regulations       December 1987      Done, BEAC's rules are being enforced
(d) Review annually credit ceilings for    1988-1991    Done.
PEs
6. Personnel
(a) Implement agreed staff reduction  1987-1988         Substantial progress
plans in divested and non-priority
PEs
(b) Prepare staff reduction plans in key   December 1987  Done.
PEs
(c) Monitor implementation of plans  1988- 1989         In progress
(d) Study PE personnel management    1988-1989          Done, but the study's findings were
and statutes                                         only partially implemented.



18
Tables 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (contd.)
Major Activities                Timetable                     Status
7. Rehabilitation of Key PEs
(a) Adopt detailed rehabilitation plans    June 1987     Done.
for seven key PEs (ATC, CORAF,
HYDROCONGO, ONPT, SNDE,
SNE, SUCO)
(b) Implement rehabilitation plans and    1987- 1991      Partially executed.
technical assistance
(c) Negotiate financial agreements with   December 1987  Not executed.
key PEs
(d) Monitor implementation and        1988-1991          Not executed.
negotiate annually financial
agreements with key PEs
8. Audits
(a) Continue CNC program of 20 audits  1988-1989         Done until 1991. CNC operations
per year                                              declined since that time.
9. Training
(a) Develop training program for      December 1987       Done, but under UNDP financing.
CENAGES
(b) Implement program                 1988-1990          Done.
10. Structural Adjustment Studies
(a) Carry out studies for further     1987-1989          Done. Studies carried out included,
preparation of structural adjustment                  inter alia, auditing of petroleum sector,
measures as required.            .                    studies on economic forecasting and
civil service reform.



19
Table 6. Studies Included in the Project
Study                     Purpose              Status              Impact
1. PE sector cross-debt     To prepare a settlement       Done      Helped the GOC assess the
study.                    plan of PEs' cross arrears              magnitude of PEs' cross-
and improve financial                  debts. However, the
discipline in the sector.              settlement plan was not
implemented due to PEs'
liquidity crisis and GOC's
budgetary constraints
2. Banking sector study      To prepare a sector          Done       Helped the GOC reform
restructuring action plan,             the banking sector
including new regulations,
PE debt settlement plan,
restructuring of selected
banks, and improvement
of internal credit
procedures and
management.
3. Downstream petroleum      To deregulate and            Done       Helped the GOC prepare
sector study              restructure the oil sector.             the oil sector restructuring
l             and privatization.
4. Transport sector study    To deregulate and            Done       Helped the GOC prepare
restructure the transport              the sector restructuring and
sector.                                ATC privatization.
5. Electricity sector study  To deregulate and            Done      Helped the GOC prepare
restructure the electricity            the sector deregulation and
sector.                                SNE privatization.
6. Water sector study        To deregulate and            Done       Helped the GOC deregulate
restructure the water                  the water sector and
sector.                               . privatize SNDE.
7. Post and                  To deregulate and            Done       Helped the GOC: separate
telecommunications        restructure the post and                the post, telecoms and
sector study              telecommunications                      financial services; privatize
sector.                                the telecoms and improve
their regulations; and
prepare a performance
improvement plan for
postal services.
8. PE staff evaluation and   To identify PE staff         Done      None. GOC did not
personnel management      capacities in view of                   implement the study's
review                    employee redeployment.                  recommendations.



20
Table 7. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Category                Appraisal Estimate                             Actual
GOC       Project    CFD       Total     GOC        CFD       Project    Total
(1) Training               a/   i   0.80   I   -          0.99      0.02   I   --    I  0.12   I 0.14
(2) Consultants'                 I          I          I                  I          I          I
services:                                I              I               I         I          I
(a) Services under      b/   '2.00                 I  2.22   |  0.12   I   --    I   1.25       1.37
retroactive financing                                                   I I  I  I  I         I
I          I         I                   I          I          I
(b) Otheradvisory       b/   i   8.00   1  1.20   i 11.25        0.74   1  1.00   1  8.43   i 10.27
services                     I           I         I                   I          I          I
(3) Activities under Part  b/        2.20        --       2.75      0.18   ,  0.10       2.80      3.08
F of the Project              I          I         I                   I          I          I
Operating costs        1.32        --    I   -         1.32      1.32   '   --    I    --    I  1.32
(4) Vehicles, supplies     c/        0.40   '   -         0.47      0.08      0.10   '  0.68   ' 0.86
and equipment                i          i         I                    I                    I
(5) Refunding of PPF       -         1.00   I   -         1.00       -         -         0.94   I 0.94
(6) Unallocated            -         0.80   I   -         0.80       -       -
I          I         I  -                           I      ,-         -
Total Project Cost      4.40   '  15.20   '  1.20  ' 20.80        2.46   '  1.20   '  14.22   ' 17.88
a/ 20% of expenditures under these categories were to be financed by Government
b/ 10% of expenditures under these categories were to be financed by Government
c/ 15% of expenditures under these categories were to be financed by Government
Table 8. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Financing Plan              Appraisal Estimate                             Actual
Local I Foreign  I       Total      Local    Foreign  I            Total
Government                4.20   1   0.20   i      4.40        2.26   I   0.20    ,          2.46
IBRD                      0.30   1  14.90   1      15.20       0.30   1  13.92   I           14.22
I          I                         I           I
CCCE/CFD                  0.20   I   1.00   I       1.20       0.20   I    1.00   I           1.20
I          ,                         ,           ,
Total            4.70   I  16.10   '      20.80       2.76    '  15.12   '          17.88
I          I                          



21
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants
Loan    Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type    .Status              Description of Covenant                   Comments
Section
3.01 (a)    Project    CP    The Borrower declares its commitment to the     The Borrower did not
Impl.             objectives of the  Project as  set forth  in  make its counterpart
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,  part funds available in
shall carry out the Project through its Prime  a timely manner. There
Minister's Office with   due diligence and  were also serious
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate  deficiencies in Project
administrative  and  financial practices  and  financial management.
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,  However, this situation
l  .      facilities, services and other resources required  improved in 1995.
for the Project.
3.01 (b)    Project    C      The Borrower shall entrust the  Secretariat  In November 1994, the
Impl.             with  the  overall  responsibility  for  the  Technical Unit was
coordination of the Project, to be assisted by a  replaced by a
Technical  Unit  to  be   established and  Privatization
thereafter maintained; said Unit shall be staffed  Committee under the
l  .     . by a resident adviser and at least two qualified  Ministry of Plan, to
and  experienced local staff, and supported by  conduct the reform
short-term consultants.                        process and execute the
Project.
3.02. (a)   Procur.    CD    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,  Procurement of goods
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' and services were
services required for the Project and to be  delaid due to, inter
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall  alia, lack of
be governed by the provisions of Schedule  counterpart funds and
4 to this Agreement.                           misunderstanding of
Bank procedures.
3.02. (b)   Project    C      All the consultants whose services are required
Impl.            for the Project and are not to be financed out of
the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  have
qualifications,  experience  and  terms  of
employment satisfactory to the Bank.
Present status  C  - complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC   not complied with



22
Loan     Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type     Status              Description of Covenant                   Comments
Section
3.03. (a)   Project    CP    By November 30 of each year or such other  The Borrower prepared
Impl.             date as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall  annual work programs,
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review   except during turmoil
and approval: (i) the proposed annual work  in Congo from 1990 to
program  for the  overall  execution  of the  1994, with some
Project; and (ii) the proposed annual work  delays. Italso
programs to be carried out in accordance with  provided periodic
the action plans for rehabilitation referred to  documentation in
in Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement. The  support of Bank's
Borrower shall not make any change to any  supervision missions.
said program  approved by the Bank without
obtaining the Bank's prior approval.
3.03. (b)   Project    C      Before undertaking  any technical assistance
Impl.             or study under Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
for its approval a detailed proposal for each
such assistance or study, including a reasoned
justification, plan of execution  and  list of
supporting services to be provided
therefore.
3.04     . Project .  NC   . The Borrower shall:
Impl.                                                            PE corporate
(a) not later than December 31, 1988 or such  governance is still
other date as the Bank agree, undertake a  hampered by lack of
review  in consultation with the Bank on the  autonomy of executive
overall adequacy    of   its  legal and  bodies and unclear
.   institutional framework for PEs and  its  delineation of
impact   on    PEs'   autonomy    and  responsibilities of line
accountability; and                        ministries.
(b) by December 31 of each year, exchange  Financial agreements
views  on  the  implementation  of the  were prepared but not
financial agreements referred to in Part B   implemented.
(e) of the Project and,  following   said
exchange of views, revise said agreements,
taking    into   account   the    Bank's
recommendations.
4.01. (a)    Acc. &    NC    The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be  Accounting and
Audit.            maintained records and accounts  adequate to  financial monitoring
. reflect in accordance with sound  accounting  systems were deficient.
practices  the   operations,  resources and  This was consistently
expenditures in respect of the Project of the  stressed in Auditors'
departments or agencies of the  Borrower  reports until 1995.
responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.



23
Loan     Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type     Status               Description of Covwnant                   Comments
Section
4.01.(b)    Acc. &     CD      The Borrower shall:                            Audits of Project
Audit.                                                            accounts from 1988 to
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in  1994 were completed
paragraph (a) of  this  Section including  in February 1995 and
those for the Special Account  for  each  transmitted to the Bank
fiscal year audited, in accordance with  in March 1995. Other
appropriate auditing principles consistently  audits were also carried
applied, by independent auditors acceptable  out with delays.
to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months
after the end each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and  in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and
the audit thereof as the Bank  shall from
time to time reasonably request.
4.01.(c)    Acc. &     CD      For all expenditures with respect to which  Auditors' reports
Audit.            withdrawals from  the Loan Account  were I regularly noted missing
made on the basis of statements of expenditure,  documentation to
the Borrower shall:                            justify expenditures
from the special
(i) maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in  account. On Bank
accordance  with  paragraph  (a) of this  insistence, the
Section, records and accounts reflecting  Borrower however took
such expenditures;                          corrective actions to
comply with this
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank  provision of the Credit
has received the audit report for the fiscal  Agreement in 1995.
year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made,  all  records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and  other  documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report  of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted



24
Loan     Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type     Status              Description of Covenant                   Coomments
Section
4.01.(c)    Acc. &                during  such fiscal year, together with the
(contd.)    Audit.                procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied  upon  to
support the related withdrawals.
5.01.      General    CD      The following events are specified as additional  Conditions of
Condit.            conditions to the  effectiveness of the Loan  effectiveness were met
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01  in January 1988, four
(c) of the General Conditions:                 months behind
schedule.
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Structural Adjustment l oan have
been met;
(b) the Technical Unit has been established and
l                       its two local staff have been employed-,
(c) the work program for the overall execution
of the Project, for an initial twelve-months'
period, has been determined in agreement
l                  . *    with the Bank; and
(d) the work programs to  be  carried  out
during  an  initial twelve-months' period,
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance
with the action plans for rehabilitation of
SNE, SNDE, ATC, ONPT, SUCO, Hydro-
Congo and CORAF under  the Program,
have been approved by the Borrower and
each of the enterprises concerned.
5.02       General      C     The date ninety (90) days after the date of
Condit.            this Agreement is hereby  specified  for the
purposes of Section  12.04 of the General
Conditions.



25
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff - Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                             Planned                        Actual
Through appraisal *   (Preparation, Preappraisal)                   na.                           24.2
Appraisal 4  Board*    (Negotiation)                                -  -                            9.1
Board  C Effectiveness*
Supervision*                                           .             i                            154.1
Completion                                                          -  -                          14.5
Total                                                               -'-                          201.9
n.a.: not available
* P.S.: Resources utilized from preparation to Board presentation, and partly during supervision, included
staff inputs for both PEIDP (Ln. 2868-COB) and SAP (Ln. 2866-COB). These projects were prepared and
processed in parallel up to Board presentation. They were also supervised together from 1987 to 1989.
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance   Rating
Stage of     Month/   Number   Days   Speciatized Staff                                      Types of Problems
Project       Year        Of o     n          Skills       Implemenlial)n    De)eloprneni
Cycle                 Persons   Field     Represented         Stat      .    Iripact
Through        11/1986       4       21    Senior Financial       none           none
appraisal                                  Analyst,
Economist.
Consultants
Appraisal 4    03/1987       2       14    Economist TA           none           none       1 imetable for
Board                   .                  Officer,                                         conditionalities
Consultants
Board 4        07/1987       I        4    T.A Officer
Effectiveness                                                     none           none       Conditions tor Loan
10/1987      2        14    T.A Officer.                                    Effectiveness
Economist



26
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Missions (contd.)
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month /   Number  Days   Specialized Staff                                   Types of Problems
Project      Year       of      in    Skills Represented  Implementation   Development
Cycle                Persons  Field                         Status         Impact
Supervision
I      g 05/1988 i   4        12   T.A Officer,             I              I        Overall
Economist                                       supervision
11      07/1988       I       4    T.A Officer,                             I        Training and
Economist        i                              overall supervsion
III      11/1988      6       18   Sr. Op. Officer           I              1        Overall supervison
IV       05/1989       I       14   Sr. Op. Officer          2              2        Extension of TA
V        07/1989      1       14   T.A. Officer             2               2        Preparation of ICR
i         i         i      .i                                i              i on SAP, couterpart
funds
VI       10/1989       I       10   T.A. Officer, Sr.        2              2        Overall supervison
Count. Officer
VIl       12/1989      2       9    T.A. Officer, Sr.        2              2         Assistance to CCA
Count. Officer
Vill      06/1990      2       13   T.A. Officer, Sr.         2              2        Implementation
i         i         ffi    i Count. Officer   i                              issues
IX       11/1990       I       14   TA. Officer,             2              2        T.A, counterpart
funds, Acc & aud.
X        07/1991      3       13   TA. Officer,             3               3        Establish dialogue
Economist, Sr.                                   with new GOC on
Country Officer                                 PE reform
Xi       051994        I       7    Pr. Count.               2              2        Review of project
Officer                                         priorities
XII       11/1994      3       12   Op. Officer, En.         2              2         PEsectorreview
Economist, Cons.
XIII      05/1995      3        7    TM, En.                 U               U        Project
Economist, Cons.                                restructuring
XIV       12/1995      6       16   TM, Lawyer,               S              S        Financial, energy,
Telecom, Infrast,                               post, telecom &
04/1996      2       21    Op. Officer,            HS             HS        transport issues,
Cons,                                           financial covenants
Completion    03/1997      2       5    Economist,               S              U         ICR preparation
Sr. Op. Officer
2   Key to status as shown in Supervision Formn 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from I (highest) to 4
(lowest).



27
APPENDICES



28
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
Jeudi 6 mars 1997
1.     Une mission  de la Banque Mondiale composee de Messrs. Jean-Michel Happi,
Economiste, et Demba Ba, Charge des Operations Senior, a sejourne au Congo du 2 au 6 mars
1997.  La mission avait pour objectif de preparer le Rapport d'achevement du Projet de
developpement institutionnel des entreprises publiques (PDIEP, Pret 2868-COB).   Elie a
egalement participe a la revue a mi-parcours du Projet de privatisation et renforcement des
capacites (PPRC, Credit 2775-COB), et la revue du PortefeuLille de projets de la Banque au Congo.
2.     La mission remercie le Gouvernement du Congo, notamment le Ministre de l'Economie et
du Plan, le Coordinateur du PPRC, ainsi que les Directeurs et Cadres des entreprises rencontr6s
pour leur accueil, leur disponibilite et leur collaboration aux travaux de la mission. La mission
remercie egalement le Directeur de la Caisse Fran,aise de l)eveloppement pour sa participation A
cette evaluation.
3.     Le texte ci-dessous est le sommaire du projet de Rapport d'achevement du PDIEP realise
au terme de la mission. La mission a fourni au Gouvernement l'appui et les conseils necessaires, y
compris un plan operationnel, afin qu'il prepare sa propre contribution a ce Rapport.
A.     Evaluation des Objectifs du PDIEP
4.     Le PDIEP avait pour objectif d'assister le Gouvernement dans la formulation et
l'execution des reformes et la rehabilitation du secteur des entreprises publiques (EP), dans le
cadre du Programme d'ajustement structurel.  11 visait egalement A renforcer les capacit6s
institutionnelles du Gouvernement et ameliorer la gestion de ces EP.
5.     Ces objectifs etaient soutenus par six composantes: (a) une assistance technique et
logistique aux agences du Gouvernement charg6es des reformes; (b) des services consultatifs de
court terme pour la r6forme gen6rale du secteur, notamment en matiere de liquidation et
privatisation, evaluation de dettes croisees, reforme du secteur bancaire, amelioration de la gestion
du personnel des EP, et preparation d'accords financiers entre le Gouvernement et des EP; (c) des
programmes de formation en gestion par le CENAGES; (d) une assistance en matiere d'audit et de
comptabilite par le CNC; (e) un appui a la gestion et la reorganisation des entreprises de service
public: SNDE, SNE, ATC, ONPT et Hydro-Congo; et (f) un appui aux inesures d'ajustement
structurel.
6.     Les activites du Projet ont evolue au cours de sa mise en oeuvre.  Celle-ci a ete
caracterisee par trois phases:
7.     Demarrage du Projet en 1988-1989. Le PDIEP est entre en vigueur en janvier 1988.
Pendant ses deux premieres annees, il a ete execute de fa,on satisfaisante, paralllerment au
Programme d'ajustement structurel (PAS, Pret 2866-COB) qui fournissait le cadre des r6formes,
ainsi que des incitations et des ressources necessaires pour leur mise en oeuvre. Les activites du



29
Projet dans ce contexte etaient claires et suivies par des indicateurs de performance dont la
realisation figurait parmi les conditions de decaissement des tranches du Pret d'ajustement
structurel.
8.     Suspension des activites en 1990-1994. Le Projet a et inactif pendant ces annees en
raison: des troubles civils, politiques et militaires survenus dans le pays; de la suspension des
deboursements de la Banque en decembre 1990 due aux arridr6s de paiement; et de la poursuite de
cette suspension lorsque le Congo est passe "hors-programme" de septembre 1991 a juin 1994.
Au cours de cette periode, le nouveau Gouvernement avait neanmoins adopte des 1992 une
politique de liberalisation visant a promouvoir le secteur prive, accelerer le d6sengagement de
l'Etat des activites A caractere industriel et commercial, et &tablir les bases d'une economie de
marche.
9.     Reprise des operations en 1995-1996. Le PDIEP a repris ses activit6s en septembre
1995, au terme de la periode de suspension. Au pr6alable, il avait fait l'objet d'un audit, d'un
inventaire et d'une reorganisation, afin de restaurer ses comptes et equipements qui avaient ete
disperses lors des troubles civils, et ameliorer sa gestion. Plusieurs objectifs du Projet n'etaient
plus compatibles avec le nouveau programme du Gouvernement. Ayant et& con,us A 1'6poque ou
le Congo etait sous un regime d'economie dirigiste, ces objectifs visaient a am6liorer la
performance des EP dans la perspective ou celles-ci restaient dans le portefeuille de l'Etat. Le
nouveau programme du Gouvemement prevoyait par contre le retrait de l'Etat de la plupart de ces
entreprises. Les activit6s du PDIEP avaient ete recentrees en consequence, afin de tenir compte de
ces nouvelles orientations.
10.    Dans ce contexte, le Projet a finance des etudes et travaux preparatoires de privatisation,
liquidation, reforme du secteur financier, et restructuration des secteurs d'electricite, eau,
telephone, transport et hydrocarbures. Ces reformes ont ensuite ete mises en oeuvre dans le cadre
conjoint du PDIEP, jusqu'A sa cl6ture en decembre 1996, et du PPRC, qui avait ete prepare par le
Gouvernement des 1995 avec I'assistance de la Banque. Les objectifs et le calendrier d'execution
de ces mesures etaient neannmoins ambitieux, notamment en ce qui concerne Ies entreprises de
service public, etant donne les capacites institutionnelles limitees du Gouvernement et son manque
d'experience en matiere de deregulation de ces services.
B.     Mise en Oeuvre du Projet et Resultats
II.    La performance du PDIEP a et evaluee dans le cadre global des reformes du secteur des
EP, tenant compte que ces reformes ont egalement ete supportees par, inter alia, quatre autres
projets finances par la Banque depuis 1987.
12.    Realisation des objectifs. La mission est de l'avis que: les objectifs du PDIEP ont ete
partiellement atteints, leur durabilite est incertaine et, dans 1'ensemble, ce Projet est evalue comme
insatisfaisant. Parmi ses resultats positifs, le Projet a renforce les capacites administratives et
operationnelles de I'Unite technique des entreprises publiques et, par la suite, du Secretariat du
Comite de privatisation, qui etaient charges de la mise en oeuvre du programme de reforme du
secteur des EP. Il a aide A formuler un cadre legal et reglementaire necessaire aux reformes,
notamment les textes juridiques regissant les privatisations, les liquidations et l'administration
provisoire des EP pendant les periodes transitoires au desengagement de l'Etat.



30
13.    Le Projet a egalement amelior6 le cadre institutionnel des EP. Le systeme de "trilogie
determinante", i.e. Ia gestion tripartite de 1'entreprise par sa direction, les syndicats et le Parti, a
et aboli et remplace par une direction generale sous l'autorite d'un conseil d'administration. En
depit de cette nouvelle structure de gestion, les EP continuaient d'etre sujettes aux interferences
directes de leurs ministeres de tutelle. Ces problemes ont ete partiellement resolus par la mise
sous administration provisoire des entreprises A privatiser ou liquider. La mission recommande de
renforcer les prerogatives des organes executifs des autres entreprises restant dans le portefeuille
de l'Etat (e.g., services postaux, gestion portuaire), afin d'accroitre la responsabilite et l'autonomie
de gestion des entreprises, et permettre aux conseils d'administration de mieux assumer leur r6le
de contr6le et d'orientation strategique.
14.    Le Projet a developpe les ressources humaines des institutions chargees de la reforme des
EP grace a des programmes de formation formelle et sur le tas, dans les domaines de la gestion de
projet et l'administration des affaires. Au cours des premieres annees, la mise en oeuvre du Projet
s'est appuyee sur une importante assistance technique exterieure. La participation de Cadres
nationaux a neanmoins et plus substantielle des 1995. Cependant, la forte rotation de ces Cadres
n'a pas permis de pleinemnent beneficier de leur experience et de la formation acquises tout au long
du Projet. Dans l'ensemble, les objectifs du Projet visant A renforcer les capacites du
Gouvernement a gerer le secteur des EP ont e  partiellement atteints.
15.    En plus, le PDIEP a aide le Gouvernement a ddfinir et initier un vaste programme de
desengagement de l'Etat du secteur parapublic, conjointement avec le PPRC. Sur la centaine d'EP
en 1987, plus de 70 operations de privatisation et liquidation etaient achevees ou en cours
d'execution au terme du Projet. En fait, 17 entreprises etaient totalement ou partiellement
privatisees, 14 entreprises non-viables etaient liquidees, et 34 autres 6taient transf6rees A des
liquidateurs. Les cinq principales entreprises de service public etaient mises sous administration
provisoire en vue de leur privatisation. Des negociations etaient en cours avec des investisseurs
prives potentiels dans SNDE, SNE, SET et Hydro-Congo. Le Gouvemement avait egalement
lance le processus de selection d'un consultant pour l'assister dans la restructuration et la
privatisation d'ATC. La mise en oeuvre de ces mesures se poursuit dans le cadre du PPRC. Les
resultats du Projet en matiere de privatisation ont ete substantiels.
16.    Par contre, le PDIEP a eu un impact negligeable dans plusieurs autres domaines, dont: (a)
la reforme du secteur financier; (b) le reglement des dettes croisees, qui ont plut6t augmente de
plus de 65% A environ 140 milliards de FCFA en 1995, par rapport A 1986; (c) la reduction des
effectifs des EP et le reglement des problemes sociaux qui en decoulent; et (d) la mise en place de
cadres de regulation appropries des secteurs de telecommunications, eau, electricite,
hydrocarbures et transport. Ces mesures necessitent d'etre poursuivies dans le cadre du PPRC.
17.    Le Projet a aussi eu un impact n6gligeable en ce qui concerne le renforcement du
CENAGES et du CNC. Les prestations de ces institutions 6taient essentiellement destinees aux
EP. Au debut du Projet, ces prestations etaient justifiees et se deroulaient de fa,on satisfaisante.
Par contre, suite A la privatisation de la plupart des EP, ces institutions ont pratiquement cesse
toutes activites. Elles n'ont pas pu etendre leurs services aux entreprises privees en raison de leur
faible competitivite par rapport A des institutions similaires du secteur prive au Congo. La mission
recommande en consequence de faciliter le redeploiement de leurs effectifs et prendre les
dispositions necessaires A leur fermeture.



31
18.    D'autres mesures egalement pr6vues dans le cadre du Projet ont et preparees mais pas
executees, y compris: (a) la revision des procedures de gestion du personnel des EP; (b) la
reorganisation du personnel des entreprises de service public; (c) les accords financiers entre le
Gouvernement et ces entreprises; et (d) I'amnlioration de la gestion et des operations de ces
entreprises. Neanmoins. ces carences n'ont pas affecte l'issue du Projet, etant donne que la
plupart de ces entreprises avaient ete mises A privatiser ou liquider dans leur etat de gestion
courant.
19.    Facteurs ayant affecte 1'execution du Projet.  La mise en oeuvre du PDIEP a ete
entravee par plusieurs facteurs.  Les plus importants d'entre eux ont e   les troubles civils,
politiques et militaires au Congo, la suspension des operations de la Banque et la rupture avec les
bailleurs de fonds de 1990 a 1994.  Les retards dans la mise A disposition des fonds de
contreparties par le Gouvernement, la resistance aux privatisations par des groupes ayant des
interets particuliers, ainsi que les insuffisances des dispositions legales des liquidations d'EP ont
aussi retarde 1'execution du Projet.
20.    Durabilite des reformes.  La durabilite des resultats du PDIEP est incertaine.  Elle
dependra d'abord de la stabilite sociale et politique du Congo, de la capacite du Gouvernement A
poursuivre les reformes necessaires A la stabilisation de l'economie, et de son engagement A
completer la reforme du secteur des EP.  Comme indiqu6 ci-dessus, plusieurs operations
commencees dans le cadre de ce Projet necessitent d'etre completees. Le succes A long-terme de
la privatisation des entreprises de service public dependra aussi de la mise en place d'un cadre
approprie de reglementation de ces secteurs. Dans l'immediat, le PPRC foumi un appui au
Gouvernement A cet effet. 11 y a neanmoins des risques de reversibilite de certaines reformes, ainsi
que des risques que certaines mesures soient mises en oeuvre contrairement aux objectifs de
liberalisation economique agrees dans le cadre du PAS, par exemple dans le secteur des
hydrocarbLires. Ces aspects devraient etre suivis dans le cadre du PPRC et des reformes macro-
economiques du PAS.
21.    Performance de la Banque et de I'Emprunteur. Dans l'ensemble, la performance de la
Banque a ete satisfaisante. La performance de l'Emprunteur a et bonne lors de la preparation du
Projet, mais moins satisfaisante lors de son execution . Le Gouvernement a fait preuve d'une
adhesion manifeste aux reformes. II a poursuivi avec succes ses efforts visant A etablir un large
consensus A ce sujet au sein de la societe civile, et mis en place un dispositif reglementaire et
legislatif qui facilitent 1'execution des reformes. Les agences d'execution du Projet ont joue un
r6le important dans l'internalisation de ces reformes par les differents beneficiaires. Neanmoins,
1'ex6cution du Projet a et6 affectee par plusieurs insuffisances, dont les delais de mise A
disposition des fonds de contrepartie, des problmes en matiere de gestion administrative et
financiere du Projet, et des retards importants dans le demarrage de plusieurs activites.
C.     Future Operation et Principales Lesons
22.    Future operation. Le Projet de privatisation et renforcement des capacites, supporte par
le Credit 2775-COB, fourni I'appui necessaire au Gouvernement pour achever la reforme du
secteur des EP.  II a notamment pour objectifs de: (i) preparer le cadre reglementaire des
entreprises de service public et l'ouverture de ces secteurs A la competition; (ii) conduire la
privatisation de ces entreprises; (iii) completer le programme de privatisations et liquider les EP
non-viables; et (iv) appuyer la reforme du secteur financier. La revue a mi-parcours de ce projet,
commencee lors de cette mission, indique des progres significatifs accomplis dans la privatisation



32
de SET, SNDE et SNE, et dans l'execution du programme de liquidations. Neanmoins,
d'importants problemes demeurent dans la reforme du secteur financier, les privatisation et
restructuration des secteurs de transport et hydrocarbure.
23.    Principales lecons. Au terme de la mise en oeuvre du PDIEP on peut en tirer certains
enseignements. Tout d'abord, les problemes civils, politiques et militaires survenus au Congo de
1990 a 1994 ont fortement contribue a la faible performance du Projet.
24.    L'impact du Projet a et  neg'igeable en matieres de r6forme du secteur bancaire,
reglement des dettes crois6es et reduction des effectifs des EP, en raison des coats financiers de
ces actions et des contraintes budgetaires du Gouvernement. Afin d'accroitre l'efficacite des
projets d'assistance technique de ce type, il est necessaire de prevoir a l'avance des strategies
financieres permettant de couvrir les coats et obligations de telles reformes.
25.    Les efforts du Gouvernement visant a etablir un large consensus avec la societe civile et
les partenaires sociaux ont ete un facteur determinant dans la preparation et la mise en oeuvre
rapide et en voie de reussite de son programme de privatisation.
26.    Les operations de privatisation et liquidation ont egalement ete facilitees par le transfert
des entreprises visees sous la tutelle de liquidateurs ou d'administrateurs provisoires. Ceci a
permis dans plusieurs cas de faciliter la transition, d'ameliorer la gestion et le contr6le financier de
ces entreprises, et de diminuer les interferences des ministeres de tutelle dans leurs operations
avant leur privatisation ou liquidation. La selection competitive des liquidateurs a egalement
accru la transparence et la credibilite de ces operations.



33
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION DU PROJET DEVELOPPEMNIENT
INSTITUTIONNEL DES ENTREPRISES PUBLIQUES ( DIEP) PRET 2868 COB
* Contexte
* Rappel des principaux objectifs du projet
* Degre de realisation des objectifs
* Principaux facteurs ayant affecte la mise en oeuvre du projet
* Perennite des reformes et des mesures preconisees
* Performance de la Banque et des cofinanciers
* Performance du Gouvernement
* Le projet
* Lecons et enseignements.
I - Introduction
De 1980 a 1985 I'economie congolaise a progresse rapidement grace a l'accroissement de la
production et aux cours elev6 du petrole. Le choc petrolier a profondement affecte le paysage
economique. Ia croissance globale etant devenue negative en termes reels. La resorption de
cette crise et la restauration des grands equilibres macro-economiques restent I' pineux
probleme que tentent de resoudre tous les Gouvemements  depuis Juin 1985. date de
I'adoption du premier programme d'ajustement structurel.
Les mesures envisagees dans le cadre de ce programme n'ont pas ete a meme de surmonter en
1986 le choc du commerce exterieur. Le Gouvemement a decide avec l'appui de la Banque
Mondiale et d'autres bailleurs de fonds de mettre en oeuvre un programme d'ajustement
structurel a travers lequel, il etait envisage une serie de reformes importantes concernant:
- la gestion macro-economique,
- la stimulation des activites du secteur prive,
- la reforme des entreprises publiques et
- la restructuration de la Fonction Publique.
C'est dans ce cadre que le Gouvernement de la Republique du Congo a beneficie de la Banque
Mondiale en date du 31 Juillet 1987 d'un pret de 15.200 millions de S US pour le projet de
Developpement Institutionnel des Entreprises Publiques (DIEP), pret 2868-COB.
Ce pret est destine au financement des colats des fournitures et services a executer dans le
cadre des Reforrnes et Rehabilitation du secteur des Entreprises Publiques decidees a
l'occasion du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel.



34
2- Principaux obiectifs du projet
Le projet a pour objectif d'aider le Congo A formuler et executer les reformes en vue de
restructurer son secteur des Entreprises Publiques, dans le cadre du Programme d'Ajustement
Structurel.
- Groupe de Pilotage
11 s'agit de foumir au Secretariat une assistance pour la formulation et l'execution des
reformes des Entreprises Publiques, par la prestation de services de consultants, l'acquisition
de materiel de bureau et de vehicules.
- Reforme Generale du Secteur
Appui a la forrnulation et A 1'execution des reformes des entreprises publiques, promotion
d'investissement et une politique industrielle:
* Conseil Juridique et recherche des partenaires
* Examens des dettes croisees des entreprises publiques
* Suivi de la reforme du secteur bancaire et des plafonds de credits des -entreprises
publiques
* Examen des structures de salaires, des statuts du personnel et des procedures de
gestion des entreprises publiques.
* Assistance pour la preparation et l'execution des plans d'effectifs et d'accords
financiers pour la SNE, la SNDE, I'ATC, I'ONPT, SUCO, HYDRO CONGO et CORAF.
* Assistance pour la preparation et l'application des procedures pour evaluer et assurer
le suivi des investissements des entreprises publiques.
- Programme de Formation CENAGES
II s'agit d'aider le Gouvernement A mettre en place un programme de formation A la gestion
pour ameliorer l'efficacite des entreprises publiques dans ce domaine.
- Verification des comptes et comptabilite
Assistance au Commissariat National aux Comptes (C.N.C.) pour l'execution de son
programme d'audits des entreprises publiques et la formation du personnel du C.N.C. -
- Reforme de la Gestion et de l'Organisation
It s'agit d'assister le Gouvemement dans la restructuration des entreprises prioritaires
suivantes SNDE, ATC, ONPT et HYDRO CONGO.
- Autres activites
Execution des etudes et services d'assistance technique a determiner pendant la mise en
oeuvre des reformes dans le cadre du Programme.
3- Decre de realisation
Les actions preconisees dans le cadre du programme de reformes visaient en general a
ameliorer les performances des Entreprises Publiques tout en assurant un desengagement



35
progressif de l'Etat a travers une politique plus rationnelle de prise de participation. Les
resultats globaux de I'application de ces reformes peuvent se resumer ainsi:
- Le Gouvemement s'est dote d'un cadre juridique definissant le processus de
liquidation a appliquer aux Entreprises Publiques; les mesures de liquidation ont ete prises et
le monopole de l'Etat leve. Cependant, la restructuration des Entreprises Prioritaires ( ATC,
HYDRO CONGO, ONPT. SNE, SNDE ) n'a pas ete possible a cause des pressions sociales.
En 1988, neuf (9) Entreprises ont ete liquidees et sept (7) ont ete privatisees.
En 1991, vingt (20) Entreprises ont et liquidees. dix (10) ont et privatisees totalement ou
partiellement.
- L'insuffisance des ressources n'a permis d'assumer que partiellement les coats lies
aux liquidations et privatisations ( droits des travailleurs et les dettes croisees des Entreprises
envers les divers fournisseurs ).
- La compression des effectifs du personnel des Entreprises Publiques a atteint 3 500
personnes contre une prevision initiale de 1 600.
- La realisation des audits et l'agrement du Gouvernement sur le programme
d'investissement des Entreprises Publiques ont permis de renforce la discipline financiere
dans le secteur.
Le programme de rehabilitation des Entreprises Publiques Prioritaires a ete appliqud avec des
retards importants par rapport au calendrier, ce qui a permis de ne realiser que tres peu de
progres dans la rehabilitation des Entreprises Publiques.
- Les contrats financiers devant etablir la responsabilite respective de l'Etat et des
Entreprises n'ont pas connu un debut d'ebauche.
Resultats par obiectif du projet
1. Groupe de Pilotage
Le Gouvernement a mise en place une Unite de Coordination Technique ( U.C.T.) pour le
Groupe de Pilotage.
Cette structure a assure son r6le de coordination et d'animation de la reforme du secteur des
Entreprises Publiques.
2. Reforme Generale du Secteur
Dans le cadre du Programmne, le Projet a beneficie d'un appui pour la mise en oeuvre des
reformes. Les travaux des consultants sont disponibles et ont assure:
- le conseil juridique et la recherche des partenaires,
- I'apurement des dettes crois&es entre l'Etat et certaines Entreprises Publiques,
- 1'etude des mutations d'effectifs et des mesures d'accompagnement
- I'e1aboration des contrats financiers de HYDRO CONGO, CORAF, ONPT,
SUCO, SNDE, SNE, ATC.



36
En 1989, le Gouvernement a cree au sein du Ministere du Plan, des Finances et de
l'Economie, une Cellule de Suivi des Programmes des Entreprises Publiques (CSPEP)
chargee de:
- la Gestion de la Centrale d'information des Entreprises Publiques,
- du Suivi des plans de redressement des Entreprises Publiques,
- de l'Elaboration et du suivi des programmes d'investissement des Entreprises
Publiques.
3- Formation
Un cofinancement de la Banque Mondiale et du Programme des Nations Unies pour le
Developpement etait prevu dans le cadre du projet pour soutenir la formation et l'assistance
au CENAGES. L'appui de la Banque Mondiale etait lid a la resolution du probleme de
locaux. Cette conditionnalite a ete levee au moment ou le projet a ete suspendu. Le volet
formation n'a beneficie uniquement que des financements du PNUD et du BIT.
4- Assistance au Commissariat National aux Comptes (C.N.C.)
L'appui de la Banque Mondiale a permis de former 25 Auditeurs pour le C.N.C. et d'e1aborer
un manuel de procedures comptables qui a ete approuve par l'UDEAC. Le C.N.C. dont
l'existence est liee a la Charte des Entreprises Publiques assure toujours les audits financiers
du secteur public.
5- Reformes de la Gestion et de l'organisation
Au niveau des Entreprises Prioritaires l'assistance de la Banque Mondiale a permis une
evolution favorable du cadre institutionnel dans son ensemble.
SNDE
La rehabilitation qui a d6but6 avec la Banque Mondiale et la Banque Africaine de
developpement a conduit a un legere amelioration de la gestion. La direction de la societe a
ete renforcee par le recrutement de deux (2) experts ( un Assistant DGP, contr6leur financier
et un Directeur financier et comptable)
ONPT
Le plan de redressement est en cours, la comptabilite de l'office a et reorganisee. Ce plan
prevoit dans une deuxieme phase l'eclatement de l'ONPT en deux entites juridiques et
economiques distinctes:
- Telecommunications
- Postes et Caisse Nationale d'Epargne



37
ATC
L'etude tarifaire et l1'tude complementaire ont et realisees, la restructuration des VNPTF est
en cours. Sur le plan de la formation, le rapport final de la mission est disponible. La reforme
institutionnelle consacre la disparition de la structure dans sa forme actuelle, elle preconise la
constitution d'entites economiques et juridiques distinctes. 11 s'agit:
- Port de Pointe Noire (PPN)
- Chemin de Fer Congo Ocean ( CFCO)
- Transports Fluviaux ( TF)
- Les Ports Fluviaux ( PF )
- Les Voies Navigables (VN)
- Le Chantier Naval ( CN)
Le contenu de la reforme pour chaque entite a ete egalement defini.
HYDRO CONGO
Cette entreprise a beneficie d'une assistance technique informatique et comptable. I'appui au
plan de redressement a abouti a la proposition d'eclatement de la societe et de creation de
filiales specialisees dont:
- Recherche et Production ( Etat)
- Stockage et Transport ( Prive et/ou Mixte)
- Distribution ( Pciv6 et/ou Mixte)
- Fabrication de lubrifiants et de produits chimiques ( Prive et/ou Mixte)
SNE
Le plan de restructuration envisage une association de la societe avec un partenaire prive
hautement experimente dans la production, le transport et la distribution de l'electricite.
6. Autres Activites.
a- Gestion de la dette
Pour aider le Gouvemement dans la gestion de la dette publique, le projet a finance des
services de consultant jusqu'en 1989 et a foumi a la Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement du
materiel informatique.
b- Gestion des agents de l'Etat
Cette mission s'articulait autour de la reorganisation de la Fonction Publique et de la mise
sous contr6le de la gestion financiere des agents de l'Etat. Le consultant a interrompu sa
mission avant son terme et aucun rapport n'est disponible.



38
c- Programme des investissements/ procedures budgetaires
Le consultant n'a pas laisse de rapport de fin de mission.
Pour les autres activites relevant de l'enseignement technique, des etudes de restructuration
des filieres bois, corps gras, cafe-cacao, ont ete realisees et sont disponibles.
4- Evaluation des performances
Les principales constatations de 1'evaluation retrospective du projet de Developpement
Institutionnel des Entreprises Publiques (DIEP) au niveau de la conception, de la mise en
oeuvre, des objectifs et des resultats se presentent comme suit.
* Conception et mise en oeuvre du projet DIEP
La conception du projet s'inscrivait bien dans le cadre de la Lettre de Politique de
Developpement et de Reforme du Secteur des Entreprises Publiques initiee par le
Gouvemement en Octobre 1986. En effet, la relance de la croissance economique reposait
essentiellement sur la rationalisation et la restructuration du secteur des Entreprises Publiques.
En 1987, le projet a ete mis en oeuvre. En 1991, pour des raisons d'arrieres de paiements, la
Banque Mondiale a suspendu les deboursements, ce qui a occasionne I'arret du programme. A
cette date, plus de 3 000 millions de FCFA ont ete emis au titre des operations engagees. La
part de la Banque Mondiale a ete engagee a hauteur de US $ 11 900 millions tandis que le
Congo a cumule d'importants arrieres sur les contreparties locales. Cette situation a suscite
des craintes au niveau de la Banque Mondiale qui s'est sentie obligee de suspendre les tirages
du projet DIEP dans le cadre de la suspension generale affectant l'ensemble du programme de
cooperation du Congo avec les Institutions de Bretton Woods.
Compte tenu de la suspension des deboursements de la Banque Mondiale, du nouveau
contexte politique congolais ( Transition vers le pluralisme politique ) et de l'avancee du
projet DIEP dans la mise en place des reformes le Gouvemement s'est vu dans l'obligation de
recentrer les activites du projet pendant la periode de Transition.
La redefinition des priorites du projet se resume en realite a des etudes specifiques sur la
restructuration des Entreprises Publiques et a la preparation du Programme de Stabilisation et
de Relance du Gouvemement de Transition.
* Au niveau des objectifs
Les objectifs du projet etaient bien adaptes au contexte de degradation structurelle de
l'economie congolaise. La rationalisation des interventions de l'Etat a eu pour effet une
reduction de la taille du secteur: de 97 Entreprises d'Etat dont 16 mixtes, le portefeuille est
passe a moins de quarante en Novembre 1991. Cependant, le programme de reformes tant au
niveau de la Fonction Publique que des Entreprises Publiques, n'a pas prevu des mesures
d'accompagnement a mettre progressivement en oeuvre.



39
* Au niveau des resultats
La conception du programme a connu les faiblesses suivantes:
- L'absence d'analyse objective des facteurs de risques lies a la capacite administrative
et financiere de I'Etat de mettre en oeuvre ces reformes.
- Les reformes s'inscrivaient deja le passage d'une economie dirigee a une economie
liberale. Cette transition necessite generalement un long delai de mise en oeuvre et
d' adaptation.



40
CONCLUSIONS, LECONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS
Conclusion d'ensemble
Dans 1'ensemble. le Gouvernement congolais a fait un effort pour mener a bien le programnme
de refornes des Entreprises Publiques en depit de la diversit& des composantes et de la
suspension des deboursements par la Banque Mondiale.
La reforme de la Fonction Publique a et initiee avec un certain succes au niveau du contr6le
des effectifs et de la masse salariale jusqu'en 1990. ( derapage tres important a partir de 1990,
doublement de la masse salariale)
Les rigidites legales et institutionnelles qui entravaient le developpement du secteur prive ont
et levees ou allegees. le Gouvernement a poursuivi sa politique de rationalisation de la taille
du secteur public.
Lecons
au niveau du Gouvemement
- Absence dans la conception de sensibilisation des populations aux objectifs globaux
* Absence de concertation des groupes d'interet au niveau de la conception et de
* l'implication des acteurs economiques.
- Les etudes, 1'experience du projet ont et capitalisees dans le projet de Privatisation
- Assurer dans la mesure du possible le financement de toutes les contreparties locales
prevues au projet.
- Le suivi de la formation, faiblesse institutionnelle; (les cadres formes ont ete recupere
par le prive.)
Absence de transfert de savoir faire des consultants exterieurs aux institution locales
au niveau de la Banque Mondiale
- L'elaboration d'un projet doit tenir compte de la capacite administrative et financiere
du pays et de l'impact des facteurs exogenes susceptibles de compromettre la realisation des
objectifs escomptes.
-L'imposition de conditionnalites a affecte un volet du programme: la formation.
Recommandations
au Gouvemement
a la Banque Mondiale.
La Banque Mondiale doit desormais tenir compte pour ses prets a l'appui aux reformes, des
problemes structurels cles: faiblesse des revenus du pays, pauvrete, creation d'emploi et
distribution de revenus, promotion de l'initiative priv~e
au niveau des resultats
* Mise en oeuvre du projet
principaux facteurs ayant affecte la mise en oeuvre



41
perennite des reformes
* Performance de la Banque Mondiale
* Performance du Gouvemement



42
MESURES                      CONTENU               NIVEAU D'EXECUTION
Groupe de Pilotage           Assistance      pour     la Creation  d'une  Unite  de
formulation et 1'ex6cution des Coordination   Technique.
reformes   des   Entreprises Financement des Services des
publiques                    Consultants, acquisition  des
materiels de bureau et de
vehicules.
Reforme Generale du Secteur Appui a la formulation et a La reforme dans le secteur des
des Entreprises Publiques    1'execution des reformes     Entreprises Publiques a ete
assuree par les services des
Consultants qui ont fourni le
conseil juridique, les etudes,
et l'elaboration des contrats
financiers.
Creation d'une Cellule de
Suivi des Programmes des
entreprises publiques.
Formation CENAGES            Mise   en    place    d'un Ce  volet  etait  prevu  en
programme de formation a la cofinancement avec le PNUD
gestion    pour   ameliorer et  le  BIT.  La  Banque
1'efficacite  des  entreprises Mondiale n'a pas assure les
publiques                    contreparties necessaires.
Verification des Comptes et Assistance au Commissariat 25 Auditeurs ont &te formes,
Comptabilite                 National aux Comptes pour un  manuel  de  procedures
1'execution de son programme comptable a ete elabore. les
d'audit   des    entreprises audits financiers du secteur
publiques et la formation du public ont ete realises.
personnel du C.N.C.
Reforme de la gestion et de Assistance       dans      la Evolution favorable du cadre
I'organisation               restructuration des entreprises institutionnel  de    ces
prioritaires suivantes: SNDE, entreprises, amelioration de la
ATC, ONPT  et  HYDRO  gestion, clatement en entites
CONGO.                      juridiques  et  economiques
distinctes.
Autres activites             Execution  des  etudes  et Amelioration de la gestion de
services        d'assistance la dette, de la gestion des
technique determines pendant agents de l'Etat. Realisation
la  mise  en  oeuvre  des des etudes de restructuration
reformes dans le cadre du des filieres bois, corps gras.
programme.                   cafe, cacao.



MAP SECTION
t                        I
*                                    r    D      N~~~~~~~~~o



I



NIGERIA       /  E             70
/ I   f E R I A r > /  . CENTRAt AFRICAN REP
CONGO                                                                     CAMEROON
EO GUINEA    r  (      S
PRIMARY PAVED ROADS                            INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                             * v             0
PRIMARY GRAVEL AND EARTH ROADS           +     OTHER AIRPORTS                                      G
SECONDARY ROADS                                PORTS                                                                     D GEM REP OF
-------- TRACKS      R    I     V    E     R S -'-tRIER                                                                              CONGO
RAILROADS                            - -       MARSH                                               is
6) REGION CAPITALS                                    REGION ROUNDARIES                         U      __
0     OTHER SELECTED TOWNS                 -  ---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIFS
'   ANGOLA 
12                                    146                 I,                                                     I9
I ,                   \        {   CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
C  A ME R O O N
2'          tA7                                    .,,,0           --.- ',.                              2 I  2
U                            K   --~            ~        ~~      ~~~~~~~~ K  t
-< ~    ~       ~      9                    F                    /%            -L-%'              ''-A
                                    f  .6,,
O   Z                                    (-> _----             I~                         MULAtO                             FRUUS            CT.HImfn; I F, 
<53                                                                        ) -S.  s A  N GP   A -TFs                   p                         U/4
T.F,-lh
;   $bccU                 r       r                                          C 
o-   G A B O N                                          RAU..A,U        rt (- '1 FourmoyDEMOCRATI
-~ ~ / C/-'-RGON  DE  lAy CUVEnTTF    $,                           ' 
K'              Oa.ocd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EP BICO 
T S61    T   Vg                               1   i  k   _c  kt
.    ,       fr  GZATp~        N/7   Ad,, Ac       w>,
tX                                         Toironcewille~~~~ F [ Fg *                     - -S /             DEMOCRATIC
2-'                       -jT                                           /  REG/ONt                  /s                   REPUBLIC OF                 2
N~-  Fg             - NIARI   N3  V,                          ts1R LE(U tU4u-             I.)'.  
CONGO
Di/9             I                             "tl   -~Kmn            ;        nC;  Na                      ?S
i1FLEK&U4
-                     y7Y          /1t  nIcc                                  sn141,,2c                         M
Pon6  /RAasF '       \ 'Us    ad gX                             PFcq         -          rtmpFJp udb 1eM/[[eqLn fr.Wrd
Noir~~~~~~~~~~ KF5loIdo                                 UKOYS                 U       SQ      ITO      FT ndrr olI eTomosnOD o  T5To*nsh
h7n   OCEAN      {ANGOLA)                                                 C) 0L
N I   I    _   .  I       __          __   ._ IF    ___F_  _          _ .  ._









IMAGING
Report No.:         16732
Type:     ICR



