Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2868 COB
(Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project)
between
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 31, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2868 COB
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1987, between THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by agreement dated December 19, 1986 (the CCCE Loan Agreement), the 
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) has agreed to make a loan (the CCCE 
Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of one hundred thirty million 
French francs (FF 130,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the CCCE Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CFA Franc" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaute 
Financiere Africaine, the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower, for a proposed telecommunications rehabilitation 
project to be carried out by ONPT (as defined hereinafter) which will be restructured 
with the support of this Project, pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 26, 
1984 and September 18, 1985 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(d)
"Steering Group" means the Groupe de Pilotage set up under the 
chairmanship of the Borrower's Prime Minister;
(e)
"Secretariat" means the Secretariat ad hoc of the Steering Group 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Arrete No. 85/1423 dated December 
7, 1985;
(f)
"Technical Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(g)
"Program" means the program referred to in the Preamble of the Loan 
Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for a Structural 
Adjustment Loan (the Structural Adjustment Loan);
(h)
"PE" means a public sector enterprise, established and operating in the 
Borrower's territory;
(i)
"SNE" means the Borrower's Societe Nationale d'Electricite;
 
(j)
"SNDE" means the Borrower's Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau;
 
(k)
"ATC" means the Borrower's Agence Transcongolaise des Communications;
 
(l)
"ONPT" means the Borrower's Office National des Postes et 
Telecommunications;
(m)
"SUCO" means the Borrower's Sucrerie du Congo;
 
(n)
"Hydro-Congo" means the Borrower's Societe Nationale de Recherches et 
Exploitation Petrolieres;
(o)
"CORAF" means the Borrower's Congolaise de Raffinage; 
 
(p)
"CENAGES" means the Borrower's Centre National de Gestion; and
 
(q)
"CNC" means the Borrower's Commission Nationale des Comptes.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifteen million two hundred thousand dollars ($15,200,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA francs a special account in Banque Commerciale Congolaise on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period"  means  the six-month period commencing on each 
date 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in 
which this Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through its Prime Minister's Office with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with  appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall entrust the Secretariat with the overall 
Page  4
responsibility for the coordination of the Project, to be assisted by a Technical Unit 
to be established and thereafter maintained; said Unit shall be staffed by a resident 
adviser and at least two qualified and experienced local staff, and supported by 
short-term consultants.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
All the consultants whose services are required for the Project and are 
not to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall have qualifications, 
experience and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03 (a) By November 30 of each year or such other date as the Bank may 
agree, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and approval: 
(i) the proposed annual work program for the overall execution of the Project; and 
(ii) the proposed annual work programs to be carried out in accordance with the action 
plans for rehabilitation referred to in Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement. The 
Borrower shall not make any change to any said program approved by the Bank without 
obtaining the Bank's prior approval.
(b)
Before undertaking any technical assistance or study under Part F of the 
Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval a 
detailed proposal for each such assistance or study, including a reasoned 
justification, plan of execution and list of supporting services to be provided 
therefor.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1988 or such other date as the Bank agree, 
undertake a review in consultation with the Bank on the overall adequacy of its legal 
and institutional framework for PEs and its impact on PEs' autonomy and 
accountability; and
(b)
by December 31 of each year, exchange views on the implementation of the 
financial agreements referred to in Part B (e) of the Project and, following said 
exchange of views, revise said agreements, taking into account the Bank's 
recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied,  by  
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  5
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such  
fiscal  year,  together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The  following  events  are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Structural 
Adjustment Loan have been met;
(b)
the Technical Unit has been established and its two local staff have been 
employed;
(c)
the work program for the overall execution of the Project, for an initial 
twelve-months' period, has been determined in agreement with the Bank; and
(d)
the work programs to be carried out during an initial twelve-months' 
period, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the action plans for 
rehabilitation of SNE, SNDE, ATC, ONPT, SUCO, Hydro-Congo and CORAF under the Program, 
have been approved by the Borrower and each of the enterprises concerned.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Budget of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Budget
B.P. 1183
Brazzaville
Republique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINI FINANCES
PRESI CONGO
Page  6
Republique Populaire
5210 KG
   du Congo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s/ Stanislas Batchi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edward Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Training                      800,000      80%
(2)  Consultants'
     services
     (a)  services               2,000,000      90%
          under
          retroactive
          financing
     (b)  other advisory         8,000,000      80%
          services
Page  7
(3)  Other activities            2,200,000      80%
     under Part F
     of the Project
(4)  Vehicles, supplies            400,000      85%
     and equipment
(5)  Refunding of                1,000,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                   800,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                $15,200,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) (a) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1985.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the formulation and 
implementation of the reforms and in the rehabilitation of its public enterprise 
sector under the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Steering Group
 
Assistance to the Secretariat in respect of the formulation and implementation 
of the PE reforms under the Program through the provision of advisory services, the 
acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
Part B:
General Sector Reform
 
(a)
Assistance in the formulation and implementation of the divestiture 
program for selected PEs through privatization, liquidation and investment promotion, 
and of industrial policies.
(b)
Review of PEs' cross-debts.
 
(c)
Monitoring of the banking sector reform and PEs' credit ceilings.
 
(d)
Review of PEs' salary structures, personnel statutes and management 
procedures.
(e)
Assistance in the preparation and implementation of staffing plans and 
financial agreements for SNE, SNDE, ATC, ONPT, SUCO, Hydro-Congo and CORAF.
(f)
Assistance in the preparation and application of procedures to evaluate 
and monitor PEs' investments. 
Part C:
CENAGES Training Program
 
Preparation and implementation of a management training program.
Part D:
Auditing and Accounting
 
Page  8
Assistance to CNC in the carrying out of its PEs' audit program and the training 
of CNC personnel.
Part E:
Management and Organizational Reforms
 
(a)
SNDE: Preparation of a comprehensive reorganization plan, carrying out of 
a customers' inventory, and assistance in the implementation of SNDE's action plan for 
rehabilitation.
(b)
ATC: Continuation of  the on-going reorganization study including 
assistance to review tariffs, to study the privatization of ATC's peripheral 
activities, to prepare financial projections and to establish decentralized 
management, accounting and personnel systems.
(c)
ONPT: Strengthening of ONPT's capabilities in investment programming, 
maintenance,  auditing and accounting, billing and personnel management, and 
computerization of ONPT's accounting system, and carrying out of a study on the 
possible reorganization into separate entities of its   postal, telecommunications and 
financial services.
(d)
Hydro-Congo: Further strengthening of Hydro-Congo's capabilities through 
the provision of long-term advisory services for general coordination of Hydro-Congo's 
activities and for finance and operations.
Part F:
Other activities
 
Carrying out of studies and technical assistance to be determined during the 
implementation of the reforms under the Program.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1991
through   November 1, 2003
585,000
 
On May 1, 2004
575,000
