Documeiit of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No.8322
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1206-TA)
JANUARY 12, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Nams  of Currency        Tanzania Shilling
Currency Exchange Rate
1982        US$ 1.00 - TSh  9.56667
1983        US$ 1.00 = TSh 12.4565
1984        US$ 1.00 = TSh 18.101
1985        US$ 1.00 = TSh 16.939
1986        US$ 1.00 = TSh 51.7189
1987        US$ 1.00 = TSh 83.7174
Average for IDA Disbursements US$ 1.00 - TSh 32.09
Follow-on Project               : None
FIScAL YEAR
July 1 - June 3n



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
YVES ROVANI
Opratim Etuallon
January 12, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on United Republic of Tanzania
Third Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1206-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Ur'ted Republic of Tanzania - Third Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1206-TA)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by fecipients only in the perfiormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AD        Agricultural Division of the MALD
ASP       Agricultural Sector and Policy Analysis Unit
of the SPA, PMD, MALD
BET       Board of External Trade
BOT       Bank of Tanzania
CAT       Coffee Authority of Tanzania (replaced by
TCMB-Coffee in mid 1985)
CATA      Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (replaced by TCMB-
Cashewnut in October 1985)
CDC       Commonwealth Development Corporation
CFTC      Commonwealth Fund for Technical Corporation
CPES      Crop Production and Extension Services of the
Agricultural Division of the MAID (replaced the
Directorate of Extension and Technical Services in
mid 1985)
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DETS      Directorate of Extension and Technical Services of
the MOA (replaced by the CPES in mid 1985)
DEVPLAN   Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs (merged
with the Ministry of Finance in April 1985)
EAC       External Assistance and Cooperation Unit of the SPA,
PMD, MALD
ECGA      Eastern Cotton Growing Area
GAPEX     General Agricultural Products Export Corporation
(liquidated early .1987)
IDA       International Development Association of the World
Bank
IMF       International Monetary Fund
LIDA      Tanzania Livestock Development Authority
MALD      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
(replaced MOA in April 1985)
MATI      MALD Training Institute
MDB       Marketing Development Bureau of the PMD, MALD
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture (replaced by the MALD in
April 1985)
MOPROCO   Multipurpose Oilseed Processing Company (subsidiary
of the TCMB-Cotton)
NAFCO     National Agricultural and Food Corporation
NASACO    National Shipping Agencies Co. Ltd.
NBC       National Bank of Commerce
NMC       National Milling Corporation
NPC       National Price Commission
PMD       Planning and Marketing Division of the MAID
PMO       Prime Minister's Office
PPMB      Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of the PMD,
MALD
RADO      Reiional Agricultural Development Officer
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance



SAP       Structural Adjustment Programme
SDR       Special DRawing Rights Currency Unit
SFM       Statistics & Farm Management Unit of the SPA, PMD,
MAD
SPA       Sectoral Planning Section for Agriculture of the PMD,
MALD (replaced the SPC in mid 1985,
SPC       Sectoral Planning and Control Section for Agriculture
of the PMD of the MOA (replaced by the SPA in mid
1985)
SPL       Sectoral Planning Section for Livestock of the PMD,
MALD (established in mid 1985)
TAMG      Technical Assistance Advisory Committee
TAC       Tanzania Audit Corporation
TAG       Tanzania Advisory Group
TALIRO    Tanzania Livestock Research Organization
TANITA    Tanzania and Italian Cashewnut Processing Company
TAiWSEED Tanzania Seed Company
TARO      Tanzania Agricultural Research Organization
TAT       Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TCA       Tanzania Cotton Authority (replaced by the TCMB-
Cotton in mid 1985)
TCMB      Tanzania Cashewnut Marketing Board (replaced CATA in
(Cashew) October 1985)
TCMB      Tanzania Coffee Marketing Board (replaced
(Coffee) CAT in mid 1985)
TCMB      Tanzania Cotton Marketing Board (replaced
(Cotton) TCA in mid 1985)
TOSCA     Tanzania Official Seed Certification Agency
TPB       Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board
TPRI      Tanzania Pesticide Research Institute
TTPC      Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (merged
with TAT in mid 1985 to form TTPMB)
TTPMB     Tanzania Tobacco Processing and MNrketing Board
(replaced TAT and TTPC in mid 1985)
Treasury Ministry of Finance (merged with the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs in April 1985)
TSA       Tanzania Sisal Authority
TTA       Tanzania Tea Authority
TTB       Tanwania Tea Blenders Co. Ltd. (subsidiary of the
TTA)
UAC       Uyole Agricultural Centre
Viwanda   Ministry of Industries and Trade
WCGA      Western Cotton Growing Area



PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1206-TA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BASIC DATA SHEETo.......................................    i
EVALUATION SUMKARYo.................*o....................  i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1I.   Project Identification, Preparation end AppraeAl...     4
XIll.  Implementationo ........................... ..... ooo....... o....  lO
IV.   Operating Performance      ..... .. .. ...... . . ... . ............ .....    14
A .  Concluslonsbu.mnsEpedtrst end..................         19
ANNEXt  Disbursements/Expenditures to end 1987 .....,000........................... 21



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1206-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Technical Assistance Project in Tanzania for which Credit 1206-TA in the
amount of US$12 million was approved on February 9, 1982. The Credit was
closed on June 30, 1988, one year behind schedule.
The PCR was prepared by the Food and Agricultural Organization
(FAO) for the Government and submitted to IDA by the Government.
Completion reports for five subprojects (including a long, detailed one by
the FAO for subproject UTF/URT/0641URT) were also prepared.  These are on
file with, and available from OED. The Evaluation Summary, which includes
field observations and comments as well as a swmry, was prepared by the
Technical Department of the Africa Regional Office in close collaboration
with the Agriculture Operatiens Diviecn; S,uthern Africa Departmont,
Africa Regional Office.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
and sent to the Borrower for comments. No comments were received.



-i1 -
UNITED REPTBLIC OF TANZANIA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1206-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHRET
Actual
Appraisal                    as a 2 of
toy Project Data                      stimate      Actual         Estimate
Credit Number                        1206-TA
Project Identification Date            -             10/80
Total Project Cott (SDR M)            12.5             _*               _*
Credit Amount (SDR M)                 10.2           10.199            99.9
2 Overrun
Amount Disbursed (SDR M)              10.2           10.199            99.9
Aount Cancelled (SDR M)                -              0.001            0.01
Outstanding                            -             10.199            99.9
Date Physical Components Completed   06/87           12/88
Time Overrun (C)                       -             18 months         20
Proportion then Completed             1002           1002
Economic Rate of Return               N/A            N/A               N/A
Financial Rate of Return              N/A            N/A               N/A
Financial Performance                  -          Satisfactory
TI%stitutional Performance             -          Satisfactory
Imvortant Data
First Mention in Files                               03/80
Appraisal                                          No appraisal mission
Negotiations                                       12/23/81
Board Approval                                     02/09/82
Signing of Credit Agreement                        03/04/82
Effectiveness                                      04101/82
Date of Budget Revision                            Several
Closing                              06130/87      06/30/88
Other Proiect Data
Borrower                   I   Governmnt of Tanzania
Ezecutipg.Agencies         I  PAO, TSMC, CDC
*Records of expenditures by the Government are inadequate to determine
what its contribution actually was.
STAF lIJPT
(Staff weeksI
S1   82   88    84  85   88   87    8          Total
Appraisal      .4  16.7   -     -   -    -    -    -          17.0
Negotiation    -    6.7   -     -   -    -    -    -           6.7
Supervision   -    -8.6  7.0   4.0  8.1  8.2  14.8  2.2    47.4
TfTAL         .4  29.0  7.6   4.0  9.1  8.2  14.8  232    76.1



Mission Data: 2/
Date    No. of    Mandays  Specialization   Report  Performance
(Mo/Yr)   Persons   in Field Retresented (1)  Date           PAting
Identif. (Continuous, following TA II Project - see Overview, para 5)
Prepar. (Continuous, through discussions between the Government and IDA)
Appraisal (As desk work, shared by the Programs and Projects Divisions)
Spn.I     6/82        1         5          (a)          06/29/82      N/A
Sup. II   2/82        1         6          (a)          03/03/83        2
Sup. III  7/83        1         5          (c)          07/11/83        2
Sup. IV  12/83        1         2          (d)          02112/84        2
Sup. V    7/84        1        15          (c;          08/17/84        2
Sup. VI   2/85        1         7          tc)          03/20/85        2
Sup. VII  7/85        1         7          (c)          08/26/85        2
Sup. VIIIlZ85        1         *          (c)          12120/85        2
Sup. lX   4/86        1         4          (a)          07/10/86        2
Sup. X    6/87        1         3          (e)          06/19/87        2
PCR       8/88        1        18          (f)          04/10189      N/A
,1) a - Economist; b - Agriculturalist; c - Agriculturalist Economist; (d)
- Loan Officer; (e) Agr. Credit Specialist; tf) - Agr. Education
Specialist.
(2) Often combined with other mission work.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (SDR)
Estimated        Actual          Estimated/Actual (X)
FY82/83             0.85             1.702                210
7Y83/84             2.98             2.129                 71
FY84185             7.23             4.634                 64
FY85186             9.35             7.034                 75
FY86/87            10.20             9.039                 89
FY87/88              -              10.199                100



- iv
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1206-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
I. PROJECT IDENTIFIC..TION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
1.       This project was identified by an IDA mission in October, 1980,
subsequent to a visit to Tanzania by a World Bank Economic Miasion in March
and June, 1980. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) provided SDR 10.2
million, equivalent at the time to US$12 million, and the Government the
equivalent of US$3 million in Tanzanian Shillings. These funds were used
to provide (a) technical assistance to strengthen the Government's capacity
to implement agricultural policies, (b) technical assistance to prepare a
short and medium term economic recovery program and to implement follow-up
mec 2 res, and (c) training for staff employed primarily in the agricultural
ais  .  '7.
2.       The benefitting institutions included: the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock Development (HALD); (b) eight. agricultural parastatals; and
(c) other selecced agencies, namely Board of External Trade and National
Price C   ission.  In addition, the Tanzania Advisory Group (TAG), which
had been establishment earlier to assist the Government in formulating a
structural adjustment program for economic recovery, received complementary
financing from project funds. The project ultimately financ6d costs in
three areas, namely: (a) 38 long-term adivsor posts and short-term
consultancies and support services for 20 Government institutions and
subsidiaries in 10 different locations in Tanzanial/I   (b) training of
staff, including a total of 111 fellowships abroad, in-service training
when counterparts were available, and various local workshops and
seminars2/:   and (c) vehicles, office equipment, computers and supplies-
-along with related services--worth SDR770,000. See Table 1 for a summary.
3.       The project was an outgrowth of a small-scale operation which had
been initiated by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) in
cooperation with Tanzania Seed Com-rany (TANSEED). With funding under the
project, CDC had hoped to continue its ongoing operation and possibly to
act as executing agency. However, the Government, while retaining three
CDC advisers, decided that FAO and a special Technical Assistance Advisory
Committee (TMC)manage the project funds. Agreements required in this
situation, along with the changes project administration which occurred,
caused delays in starting the project.
1/ Annex 2: pp. 62-65; Annex 3: pp. 1-2; p. 16;
2/ Annex 2: pp. 68-81;



v 
4.       The project preparation and appraisal differed from the usual
approach. The main project document, the President's Report, was based on
the Government's requesu for assistance and detailed discussions with IDA
and the concerned agencies in Tanzania, and no separate appraisal report
was prepared. The President's Report provided a framework for the project
and the appraisal could be regarded as a continuous exercise with
adjustments made from t'me to time as part of tha tripatrite reviews
conducted by IDA, GOT, and FAO, as well as by the periodic supervisions
conducted by IDA staff. However, a number of issues which should have been
resolved at the preparation and appraisal phases remained pending and
contributed to the slow pace in the early stages of project implementation.
These were: (a) establishment of a central coordinating unit responsible
for monitoring project progress and liaising between the Government
institutions and participating outside agencies (i.e., IDA, FAO, and CDC);
(b) the establishment of Technical Assistance Advisory Committee; (c)
preparation of more elaborate and specific job descriptions for the
identified Technical Assistance (TA) personnel positions; and (d)
preparation of sound technical procedures for initiatirag the project
operations and technical and financial mechanisms for reporting. In
addition, the standard appraisal procedure could have tackled such
shortcomings as the necessity to provide supporting resources to TA staff
under the project (e.g., tools and raw materials to the staff in
engineering posts and use 1if local and regional training institutions for
fellowships instead of sending all the candidates overseas). Likewise,
some of the TA coneultent positions could have bn fi illed by
local/regional consultants or firms. Procurement procedures used by FAO,
CDC, and TMAC should have been the same; in fact, it would probably have
been better if all the project activities had been coordinated by one
executing agency, thereby avoiding or minimizing piecemeal handling of
funds and other complications, e.g., those related to exchange rate
fluctuations between SDR and other currencies and the resulting problems in
maintaining an overall record on project finances. As it was, these
constraints had to be gradually removed as the project gained maturity and
experience.
II. IMPLEMENTATION
5.       The project was implemented as four components.  There were three
main components, namely: (a) the FAO Trust Fund Project (UTF/URT/064/URT)
consisting of fellowships, consultant services, and equipment; (b) the
CDC/TANSEED component, consisting of equipment and consultant services; and
(c) the TAAC component, consisting of consultant services and overseas
training. In addition, and partly prior to the project effectiveness, the
Tanzania Advisory Group mission was financed from the project funds
(details in PCR; para 3.09 and appendices A and B).
6.        Implementation of the project started effectively a year later
than provided for in DCA. The main reasons for the delay included: (a) the
8 months that the establishment of TAAC required; (b) the time required to
make an agreement with FAO as the main implementing agency; and 'c) lack of
coordination among the implementing agencies FAO, TAAC, and CDC oa
administrative procedures required by the project.



- vi -
7.        This preject was different from most other technical assistance
projects in that it iocussed on strengthening institutions in many
locations throughout the country. Commonly, technical assistance efforts
aiming at institutional building focus on strengthening of the management
capacity at the central level, sometimes extending to a few branches of
subsidiaries outside the headquarters. A typical example is the ongoing
Bank-assisted Fourth Technical Assistance Project in Tanzania which
supports two central organizations. The aim of tne Third Technical
Assistance Project was to meet the management improvement needs in 20
different departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Developm,at (MALD), perastatal agencies, or their subsidiaries scattered
over 10 different locations in the country. Fxthermore, each of the 20
institutions or units had diverse management and training problems. Such
diversity  required a uniqws: (tailor-made) approach to each situation.
There was no particular ad'antage to be gained from a teaw effort and
complementarity. Finding suitable experts for the variety of posts and the
effective deployment of these experts was a demanding challenge for the
executing agencies of the project.
8.        On the other hand, there were positive factors which helped  the
project succeed. These included: (a) the timely and appropriate response
by IDA to the adjustments needed in the original plan; (b) the increased
frequency of IDA supervision, especially during the advanced phase; (c) the
genifna efforts bv the Government in oroviding support to the proiect's
Administrative/Operation Officer; (d) vigorous efforts by the Government to
identify counterparts; and (e) FAO-administered project taking over--with
the Government approval--much of the administration and monitoring of other
project components, thereby providing the project implementation with a
mush needed coherence.
III. OPEPATING PERFORMANCE AND LONGER TERM IMPACT
(SUSTAINABILITY)
9.       FAO was responsible for about 75 percent of tie project (FAO's
UTFIURT/064/URT); the Commonwealth Development Corporsiion (CDC) was
responsible for the CDCITANSEED component (3 advisors); and the TAAC was
responsible for the 'supplementary' components (assistance to units other
than MALD, but including the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania and the Tanzania
Livestock Development Authority (Table 1). Except for FAO's subproject,
progress reporting was irregular, mainly because the required procedures
were ambiguous and had not been planned in advance (para 4). The approach
of the project was to upgrado the operational skills in the benefitting
institutions as a beneficiars-driven effort (requests for experts came from
the benefitting institutions), and through the case by case deployment of
individual technical assistance experts, the provision of the scientific
equlpment and logistics, together with the training of selected Tanzanian
staff. In general, the project exceeded the targets set in the credit
documents (paras 12 to 17). The main operational shortcomings were
administrative: delays in recruitment and procurement as well the failure
by TAAC to prepare annual reports, accounts and audits for the
supplementary tomponent as required by the DCA (Sections 3.05, 3.06, and
4.01).



- vii -
10.       Almost a year and a half elapsed between project identification
and its effectiveness. The operations under the largest subproject (FAO's)
started late; the CDC and TAG components were already being implemented
under anr earlier funded scheme up to August 1982,   As mentioned, the
establishment of the TMAC was delayed by 8 months.
11.       Recruitment of the international consultants met with several
delays under the FAO and TAAC subprojects because of the difficulties in
agreeing on procedures. Such was not the case under the CDC subproject,
however, as the incumbents under it were already placed through prior
arrangement4. However, the project succeeded in providing 38 long- term
experts and 13 short-term consultants to 29 different institutions, which
was some 25 percent more than estimated at appraisal.
12.       Counterpart recruitment proved equally difficult, despite a
genuine effort made by the Government. Tanzanian accountants were
especially difficult to recruit with the salary the Government could offer.
In some cases, other qualified counterparts to work with the technical
experts were unavailable in the Tanza.-_an market. The ideal approach for
sustained development would be for local counterparts to work with
technical assistance experts for enough time to gain on-the-job experience,
to have their skills upgraded through further training, and to continue
performing the task independently when the technical assistance experts
phase out. At the initial phase, the technical assistance personnel often
must play relatively strong participatory role (actually doing at least
part of the work), but toward the end of their contract their advisory role
must increase. Where fairly well qualified local counterparts were
adequately available, the project was able to achieve its objectives in
this respect.
13.       In retrospect, the Government's view was that although the
project experts have revised the operational standard of the institutions
in which they were placed, engaging technical assistance personnel was not
a satisfactory way of solving operational problems if there were no
qualified counterparts to ultimately take over.   However, in general, the
Government's position is that, despite this shortcoming in a number of
cases, the project was useful because (a) the parastatals have now adopted
an improved accountancy system; (b) the sectoral planning capacity in MALD
has improved; (c) procedures for collecting agricultural statistics and
other data have been established; and (d) the financial managemen. and
reporting procedures of the key parastatals have improved.
14.       The overseas training programs were also affected by some delays
in the beginning because the selection procedures were not specific and
because it was not clear which body had the right to approve the training
awards. These problems were solved once the FAO Administrator/Operation
Officer was appointed, and the overall training program was a success with
111 fellowships abroad and several workshops arranged in Tanzania. The
training of Tanzania nationals was arranged on a progressive basis with
minimum disruptions to the ongoing operation. All the trainees returned to
Tanzania.
15.       Equipment procurement was carried out mainly through the FAO
subproject and FAO procedures were used for procurement. These procedures



- viii -
require central approval from Rome for most purchases and caused delays in
some cases (e.g., in getting computers). However, except for delays, the
importation of equipment and materials proceeded as planned. Because the
Government's finances were inadequate and the procedures were sometimes
cumbersome, procurement of locally purchased items and services presented
some difficulties.
16.        The Financial performance of the Project was satisfactory in
terms of the IDA's disbursements and FAO's financial reporting. Numerous
delays occurred because of different categorization by IDA and FAO of the
disbursement items and the resulting problems in reconciling the accounts
and statistics. All these were solved during the final two years of the
project. The exercise initiated at the early stages to collect financial
reports from each of the beneficiary institutions on their local
contributions did not succeed, because of the difficulties of separating
these contributions from other cost items in the accounts of these
institutions. Because project costs had originally been over-estimated, it
was possible to provide more experts and equipment under the project than
had been projected at the project preparation stage. Overall, through
several adjustments of plans and budgets over the project life, the total
of the assigned funds of SDR 10,200,000 was utilized except for a minor
balance that remained with FAO at the close of the project. (PCR, p. 21
and Annex 1).
17.       The delays in commencing the operations were closely linked with
the gaps left during the project preparation phase, as already indicated
(para 4). These delays, and the original over-estimation of costs that
allowed exceeding of the quantitative target, made an extension of the
project's lifetime by one year inevitable.
18.       Periodic adjustments in project design and disbursement
categories were necessary because the actual needs of beneficiary
institutions had not been well-defined during the project preparation stage
and, in any event, changed over time. Other factors which warranted
periodic assessments, reviews, and adjustments were the limited                         K
availability of qualified counterparts, inadequate preparedness of the
beneficiary institutions to effectively utilize project inputs, and the
initial difficulties arising from the absence of a coordination mechanism
for project execution. The adjustments were agreed upon at tripartite
meetings between IDA, the Government, and FAO, as well as by IDA management
following the main supervision missions.
19.       Other adjust-ments also took place. The original Terms of
Reference of the P:.oject Administrator did not include all the tasks which
he needed to perform and therefore had to be modified. Likewise, there
were inadequate procedural guidelines for the FAO Project Administrator to
follow in preparing financial reports for the Government and IDA. Also,
there were differences between the IDA and FAO international bidding
procedures. On the final stages of the project, the FAO Project
Administrator was allowed to use the FAO procedures for procurement.
Government Views
20.       The Government found the project helpful and, in spite of the
constraints and delays experienced, successful in the end. The project had



- ix -
a more positive impact on institution where qualified counterparts were
made available. The Government made a genuine effort to help make this
possible. These views were further substantiated by sample interviews
which the IDA staff conducted at the benefitting institutions. For
itstance, the officials of the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB) indicated
that the project--througb its assistance to MALD's planning and statistical
work--enhanced the MDB's operations. The project also improved the
operationa' capacity of parastatals and their subsidiaries by updating the
books and records and instituting new and improved systems.
21.         In another example, the Director of the Research Institute of
Tanzania Agricu'ltural Research Organization (TARO) in Ukiriguru indicated
to IDA staff that TARO clearly benefitted from the services of the long-
term "cotton breeder and agricultural extension officers" recruited under
the project. Also, TARO benefitted from the short-term consultancies
provided for cotton pest management.. The Director confirmed that the
improvements introduced through consultancies and the overseas and local
in-service training of the Tanzanian nationals, as well as the audiovisual
equipmeat provided under the project, significantly enhanced TARO's
operational efficiency.
22.       The Government was also quick to point out certain shortcomings
of the project. In one case, at least, the Government expressed the view
that because it did not actively participate in the recruitment of the
technical assistance personnel, it had little influence on the development
of their attitudes and commitments. These attitudes and commitments of the
staff were importart to the Government in so far as the political and
cultural norms of the country were concerned. However, the Government also
mentioned, that under this particular project, this shortcoming created no
crisis. As for the counterparts, the Government expressed its intention to
ensure that in the future the counterparts would assume the role of
"central operators" from the outset, and the TA personnel would focus more
on "grooming" and "backstopping". The Government insists that, whereas the
TA personnel can have a greater participatory function during the initial
stages, they must increasingly assume advisory role toward the end of their
assignment (para. 12). It is extremely important that by the time the TA
personnel phase out, the national counterparts are capable of assuming the
leadership role so as to ensure continuity and sustainability.
Overall Performance
23.       Considering the multitude of constraints which the project
encountered, especially during the initial and critical stages, the
operating performance of the Government and IDA in implementing the Project
was sound. The main factors which influenced project performance
negatively were (a) lack of adequately detailed information on existing
management strengths and weaknesses in benefitting an institution; (b) the
absence of a project management unit and/or absence of a clearly designated
coordinator for the project at the outset; and (c) complications which
arose from a number of unresolved issues which needed attention at the
earlier stages. The information needed about the benefitting institutions
(point (a) above), was gradually obtained as project implementation
progressed. The difficulties experienced due to the absence of a project
coordinator during the initial stages (point (b) above), were reversed and,
indeed, progress picked up momentum, once it was agreed that the FAO



-x -
Project Administrator assume the responsibility for the overall
coordination of the operation (later, his designation was changed to
Operations Officer). The FAO Administrative Officer was only recruited in
July 1983 (i.e, one and a half years after project start-up), and although
he was charged with the coordination responsibilities only at a later
stage, the project attained coherence and measurable success, and achieved
its objectives.
1' Pact and Sustainability
24.      The institutions which benefitted from the Third Technical
Assistance Project were as many as 20. They were located at considerable
distances from each other and each benefitting institution had a different
set of needs. Thus, addressing the problems of all of them simultaneously
was a complex and demanding task. In addition, because the technical
assistance advisory staff operated as indiv44uals in different
institutions, there was no advantage to be derived from a team effort as is
common in similar projects. In fact, the resources made available formed
more of a program than a project, and the usual means of measurment of
project success--comparison of results with objectives and targets--is not
very practical. Reportedly, the ongoing operational efficiency of the
benefitting institutions is improving. Tanzanian specialists are now
performing many of the tasks carried out by foreign experts during tte
project. For instance, the sisal and cotton parastatals report
satisfactory performance by the nationals. Likewise operations of the
coffee and tobacco agencies are improving. For longer term the principal
beneficiaries are the individuals who received training or worked alongside
technical advisors. Whether the institutions initially benefitting will
continue to benefit depends on whether services of that individuals can be
maintained. This will require the adaption of better terms and conditions
of employment as well as incentives for continued high level achievement.
It is uncertain whether these conditions   will be established in the
timely fashion.
LESSONS
25.      The preparation and appraisal of the project were rather
superficial (para 4), which in turn necessitated several periodic reviews
and adjustments. Likewise, the three-way management approach of the
project, as undertaken by IDA, FAO, and CDC independently during the
earlier phase of project implementation, was not an efficient arrangement.
The lack of timely and regular reporting for the "supp:ementary' component
was a result of the lack of coordination and had a negative impact on the
pace of earlier project execution. Despite these and other related
constraints, the project managed to achieve its targets because of the
beneficial factors (Para. 8) and an exceptionally energetic and persevering
Administrative/Operation Officer of the largest component and the support
of the supervising officer in MAWD. The project proved--as has been the
case in many other projects--the overriding importance of having an
excellent management team.
26.       In retrospect, it would probably have been beneficial to consider
local institutions and professionals for recruitment for some as technical
assistance posts under the project. The Government is not able to hire them
into its regular staff because of its salary constraints. Their



- xi -
familiarity with the prevailing working environment in Tanzania would have
been an advantage and could perhaps have accelerated project
implementation. By the same token, sending some of the fellowship
recipients to local or regional training institutions would have been more
cost effective than sending them already. (However, their capacity and
suitability was not reviewed during IDA PCR-mission.) In future project
designs, these options should be explored.
27.       The project execution would have been further enhanced had the
staff, e.g., the engineers who worked under the TANSEED, been provided with
the necessary tools, raw materials, and spare parts from the project funds.
This need had not been anticipated at project preparation.
28.       The weakness in reporting and providing financial data on the
non-FAO components made it difficult to assess how these components
performed. Despite the FAO Project Administrator's numerous efforts, and
despite the IDA missions' repeated requests that such reports be made
available, the issue remained unresolved. Formal coordination of all
project activities by one person would probably have corrected the
situation. Because reporting on the FAO-administerea component was good
(although sometimes delayed because of FAO head office reviews), a line
management/coordination arrangement would probably have improved these
aspects. In general, implementation of a project component by a Government
committee (in this case TAAC) without a permanent staff or secretariat,
does not appear practical in the light of experiences of this project.
29.       Since there were no bonding arrangements made to encourage the
trainees to return to their respective sponsoring institutions, about 102
of the returnees were absorbed elsewhere. This level of 'defection' falls
within the tolerance range of the GOT Civil Service and was, therefore, not
a major issue. Although the return of as much as 90% of the trainees to
their respective institutions appears satisfactory, the redeployment of the
remaining 10% elsewhere did not benefit the sponsoring institutions
(although, of course, the economy at large probably benefitted).
30.       The project achieved its operational targets despite the
difficulties mentioned earlier. More than 99 percent of the credit
proceeds wiere disbursed. The readiness of the Government to request, and
IDA to agree, to adjustments to the plans and budgets facilitated these
results.
31.       Except in a few cases, the work of the experts was highly
appreciated by the Tanzanian authorities and they have indicated on various
occasions their desire to have this type of assistance continue, e.g., as a
TA V project. The results of the project--despite the initial delays and
many problems during implementation--appear adequate to favor further
projects of the same nature. In Tanzania's current development phase,
there are numerous essential staff positions--many of them relating to
promotion, planning, improvement of efficiency, and accelerated growth of
organizations--for which experienced Tanzanian staff cann   'e found (or
released from other equally important functions). These posts are
scattered or form such small clusters that it is not feasible to form
separate projects out of them. But the approach used should be regarded as
a program rather than a project with definite objectives. A program would
be less subject to criticism about poot coordination, difficulties in



-xii-
measuring achievements, and so on. However, should the Government consider
filling such positions in the parastatals through a future prL ram, the
people should clearly concentrate on activities that help parastatals to
perform functions that are suitable for them, 'such as development planning,
research, regulatory functions, and quality control and similar activities.
Within any future technical assistance program in Tanzania, the experts
would need sufficient support, careful work planning, adequate supervision,
and back up to be efficient in their work and be able to concentrate on
essential tasks. This kind of support could be provided by a specially
assigned senior Tanzanian officer or by a senior expatriate as a
coordinating officer as happened during the latter part of this project.



Table 1
The Third Techilcal AssIstance Pro1ect
Pro1ect Components and Ezuerts Recruited
PAO-administered                                       Supplementary
Component                                             Component
CDC
I                                                                                             x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II                    .I                   I                                                       I  
A.  Long-Te                IMALD             ML |Plann1ng                           Industries                      MALD
IALDI
Advisers                IO             tarast.                 (UPC)                (BET)          HALD
Parast.              Parast.                 (38)                  (9)              (16)                    (1)
(4)           (1)           (6)                  (1)
B. Short-Term
Consultancies           (4)              (1)                    (8)*
*The TAG - 3 Development Specialists plus 5 support Economists.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1206-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Agriculture to the backbone of the Tanzanian economy accounting
for more than 801 of its exports' earnings, approximately 50Z of the Gross
National Product, and providing the means of livelihood to about 907 of its
populatlon of 21 million. Over the past 25 years the population's rate of
growth hae been at an average of 3Z per anum.
1.02      Starting in the mid-1970'oa griculture, and in turn, eSports
volum    and earnlngs, suffered from a sharp decline with a contin suc down-
ward trend, wbich has been attributed to several factors of varying impacts:
the slack of real producer prices vi-a-avis world prices and domestlc costs;
the sh rp upward aOve nt of food crops prices ln comparison to those of
xport crops; the rising adminsltrative and marketing costs of the agricul-
tural parastatals handling these crops and generally suffering from poor
organization, inefficlent operations and inadequate financlal management;
the Inadequacy of the foreign exchange allocation. to meet the requirements
of the agricultural sector; the inadequate emphasis given to agricultura.
research and extension; and specific euvironmental and inputs problems
related directly to specific crops.
1.03      Consequently, in 1980, and In a major effort to deal with the
economic difficulties suimarized above, the Government formulated an Export
Rehabillation Prograne (ERP) which was introduced in April 1981, followed
bj a wider National Economic Survival Program_.  Both programes were aimed,
among other objectives, at mobllizing ill possible resources to arrest the
decline in the volume of agricultural production and exports. To assess the
ERP and its detailed requirements, an IDA apprai&al mission visited Tanzania
in October-November 1980 during which time a technical assistance project
was identified in principal to help achieve the Programme's objectives.



-2-
1.04      The Project was envisaged to address several major issues covered
by the EP and to contribute into resolving specific bottlenecks to increased
agricultural production, and thereby axports, through effecting improvements
in the financial controls and reporting procedures of key MOA parastatals,
in the operations and maintenance of agricultural plants and processing
machinery, in crop cultivation practices, and in the planning capacities of
the MOA. Furthermore the Project was intended to render assistance to the
Governmnt in preparing a Structural Adjustment Programe (SAP), and to
advance staff performance, particularly in the agricultural sector. The
technical assistance programe under the Project was to comprise of consul-
tants in various disciplines to be assigned to a number of Government insti-
tutions, of provisions for large scale overseas and ln-service training for
staff, and of the suppl7 of essential equipment and transport facilities.
1.05      Following protracted negotitaUons *nd exchange of  iossions
between the Government and the MA, the latter approved the Project on
9 February 1982, and its Development Credit Agre_ment (DCA 1206-TA) was
signed on 4 March of the s*o year. It became effective on 1 April from
which date implementation was carried out ending In December 1987, following
the e tXnsion of lts original completion date of end December 1986. Part
of the proceeda however, were used retroactively to cover cost. related to
the Project's preparation phase, and to those of an Advisory Group (TAG)
which was assisting the Government ln preparing the above-mentioned SAP and
whose services had already comenced in November 1981. The total foreign
allocation of the DCA was SDR 10,200,000, then equivalent to approximately
US $12,000,000, while the local contribution by the Government was estimated
at the equivalent of US $3,000,000 In Tanzanian Shillings.
1.06      The more specific objectives of the DCA were:
(a)   To strengthen the Goverrment's capacity to implement agricultural
policies end measures aimed at increasing the volume of agricultural
production through a programe of technical assistance to the MOA.
and to other Project beneficieries;



-3-
()    To prepere a short and medium term economic recovery plan
through the provision of technical advisory services to Devplan,
and to implemnt follow-up moasures related to the economic
rocovery plan through the provision of technical assistance;
(c)    To provide training for staff inployed primarily in the agricul-
tural sector, with special ephasis on the development of local
ln-service skill improvement programes
1.07        For objectives (a) and (b) above, SDR 7,120,000 were allocated,
objective (c) received an allocation of SDR 1,120,000 and the equipment
component was allocated SD1 770,000. Out of the balance, SDR 170,000 were
allocated for the Project's preparation costs and SDR 1,200,000 were left
for future allocations.  By the end of the Project more than 99% of the
total bad been disbursed, although with substantial changes in the final
allocations to the different components and as detailed in Annez 1.
1.08        From these objectives, more direct and elaborate ones were
formulated prior to, and, in response to subsequent influences, after the
sanctioning of the Project and which were relevant to the specific objec-
tives and allocations of the individual posts coming under the consult-
ants' services. Section II of the report covers the first category and
Section III will detail the latter changes and modificatione.
1.09        In addition, several institutional changes also took place
during the Project's execution leading to alterations in some of the
original envisaged inputs, as will be detailed under Section III, while
the Project's design Itself, covered under Section 1I, came short of
addressing a number of factors which resulted in delays in an overall
imediate implementation in part, and in part ln a somewhat limited
achievement in some of the areas covered by the technical assistance.



4-
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATON, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      As already mentioned, the Project was first Identified in
principal In October-November 1980 by an IDA appraisal alislon for the
URP, and was recum"eded by the mission in December of the some year.
2.02      Stmiulg from  the URP's objectives to eliminate or reduce the
economic constraints facing TanzanLa and as suarized ln paragraph 1.02
above, the Project, as a progrape of technical assistance,was formulated
by the Govriwut and jointly appralsed with the IDA until it was greed
upon and the DCA aetioned.  The bulk of the propgam   was Intended to
be delivered to the MA (for improved aprLcultural sector planning), and
to Its major crops producing and exporting parastatals (for improved
flnaenal operatios and reporting, engineering perforance and agricul-
turaL cultivation practices), while the balance of the technical *dsist-
ance prowesimo eovered the sezviceo of the TAG for Dewplan a a separate
casonpnt, ad the rest comprlsed of staff training, equipment, and
supplementary techical assistance to be identified at a later stage by
tke TAAC which would also review the Project's execution 4ad progress.
Per the DCA's terms the TAAC was to be established at not later than
30 June 1982, to be chaired by Treasury and to include the KOA, Devpln,
Viwanda and the BST as members. The Coinittee was estabLished on
8 Narch 1983.
2.03      Following are the beneficeries and consultants' services
originally agreed upon. The acronya in brackets stand for the
institutions that were restructured or reorganized later during the
Project's duration, and shall henceforth be used in this report.
A.         OA(HAULD)
1.  SPC(SPA)                    3 Agricultural Planning Economists;                 El
2.  DETS(CPES):                 1 Agricultural Planning Economist;



3. s                           1 Accountant;
4.  1D                         1 1Project Adinitrative Officer;
3.      IPeaCtatale/lubeldiarees:
1.   AO                        1 ApScultural Produc:ou EoC at;
1 Accountant;
2. ?C&(?OS-Cotton) s           3 Accoutants;
2 #lemaical Ianncer;
1 Ginnwy Maintenance ntgiuew;
1 01 Hill Meintevrae Zineer;
2 AgScultraltets;
3. CAT(Scf fee) s              3 Accountants;
1 3.olv Engineer;
1 Coffee Processing Enlgneer;
4. i2 Accountants;
1 lehncl Engner;
1 held Machiner,- EgiLnee;
SiSal Proceesing 3ng1er;
5. TWSUD                       1 Seed Production Manager;
1 Agronomist;
1 hum Manaer;
C.        pIan                           3 Develoment Speciallete for
the TAG, supported by
5 coiomiesta.



In WAdtion a *uder of ehot-tei coultauCy sevtces were eavisaged
but wera left for ftutw identIficatIon.
2.0&      Subsequent to the esteUslment of the TAC other awe   of
sWppi emtax7 technica sdaitms wee establshbed covering pesializa.
t11ime a      instituatIos that bad bee left for mbh fetut. dent ifcs-
ese, but  hose f.tione wer closeoly lSed to the objective  of the
Project. aese weret
A.~   ~~~~~ .               :
1. TA_(TTPW)                  1 Tobacco Agrom.Ist;
1 Internal Auditor;
1 Acfntma;
2. sDA/UcOO          :        2 t2Accoutats;
3. SC                           Accosntsat;
5.      53?                   :        1 Accountant;
1 Trade Policy Adviser;
1 xPort Finance Adviser;
1 Market Information Adviser;
C.        UaC                  S        1 Acountant.
2.03     Apet fru these servies Identifted prior to ead after the
DCW' sanctioning, the identificateo and uus titutional allocati(on of
the two othew technical assistance InuIts of the project, I.. equipment
ant training, wer left open.



-7-
Despite the length o0 neptiatio  med the mber of appraisl
carred out, the Project's prpeatios did not aecamodate *11 the relevnt
details, whether those pwrtainig to the Project's infrstructutr, or others
related to subsequent delePmets whch Ve   not completely  uforesseable
durin  the preatory p_ae. Undoubtedly the mins of the Project in
bedgetay tewms d In tears of the ovwerall alloatilons of the different
categori  of techical  sstance, but  we Lmprtant In terms of the
caleity of the specialiatims that were to be provided or that were
left for futur  idetiflcatlon, In additlon to thc  mier   of the Govermnt
ia:t    e tut=ss  lolved during thi phase, all contributed to suc  shorteomig
despite the prolonpd ansintom t    srtaken to establish the te ical
assistamcw sae     * the beneficiary institutions. TSM  os a factor that
led to a sIX month delay In Ms_itting the Project pro pol following the
UPs approwal and Its introductionin April 1961.
2.07        St my also be relevant to point out her, that subsequent 
rrng_siauts whie were agred upon ia June 1982 and offictally endored in
January I983(but which were already envitsaed durlng this preparatory phase),
entrasted the vbo'e project (cmept for 3 posts) ad m of ilts budget to
AD without considering the allocattons for thee 3 posts nor for the
supplmeatary techical assisetance lnuts, or even the cost of the TAG
eervces, for which part paqment had alreay boe  made under the Project.
Thi isoue as  rectified but not before mid 1983 with a substantial lose of
tlm and efforts to complete Implesentation, arrangements.
2.08        No preset conditions were md e prior to the DCA' sainctlonng,
ecet that mawures wro agreed upon to ewtAblimb the TAAC by 30 June 1982
(wbich was only doe tn Hareb 1983 as reported above ), the appointment of a
Project Administrative Officer by the sme date (effected only ln July 1963),
and the appointment of a Flanuecal nalyst for the PPK9 by 30 September
1982, wbich m*t no delays as the post had alrady been filled through another
project intended to strengthen the PP1B.



2.0        Atta_Imet I to this reot (prepared prior to the PCR), and
coverin the propacation and Implesmntation of the sub*equent FIA
emponet of trut fi project UTIUT/O6/IT, attmpts to detail the
major tisue that wwr eithe not fully covered or emitted durtig the
Project' PC e    tio    d dign, ad the cous_qut operational problms.
As ths c_onpnt w  th  ujo  we under the Project, the effects wew
corespendigly ot a maj  Impact. Driefly, the" ioous wee:
Ci)   The cneclusion of the DC laror to tial vrifications of the
tet to whch the eipient betecLies could fully utilixe scA
te1d4ical MastaCeo a cM.lmnt It Wi th   nsceMs"sa  local Man-
purer and ateral inpts.
(Li)   Th aewal chwarter of the individual job desriptim, and
taim-settlment o c rtain prreqite .                               e-
Qf de Iojets          'tant  role with rad to theP   a
pending pet year accomnt, of the parstatals.
(i1i)  The loes thampletecoideration given to the then
4atwicated restnutuing of soee  pwastatals Into maketing bards,
or to identical on-going technteal assistae  to .ieh peastatals by
Othe aid ag""eni, both necessitating fundamsetal changes in the
consltants' ervices later on.
(10)   The mn-provtison of atwrial/equip et allocations to the
9 enginerSing poets despite the infWror codition  of the plants
and the absence of such matrials locally * well as of the necesary
foreign *echange for their purchae from abroad.
(v)   The absonce of a coherent  echacnim for a propt and systematic
utlllzation of the subtantial training allocations for oversea  fellow-
sbhip wads.



-9-
(wi)  The absence of details on futur  financial reporting procedures,
oan procureot mecbanisms, ad, particularly when this FAO component
be,am operational, the incoiostnciles of administrative nd technical
reportlng procedures tbht wer then established.
(vll)  The use of the 81 currency unit for establishing the DCA's
budget, with constant xchange rate fluctuatiove In trms of the
curenciles used for paqmnts, particularly the U $, ther*y not only
prevenutng an accurate later montoring of actual versus planned
disbursemoets, but also of the subsequent projections for the coeit-
m_nts established throughut the Project. Mbreover, specially
with the Project's long duration, serious difflculttes would have
* zF"Xd m d such fluctuations been advrse to the SR value.
2.10         urtharmore had the WA condtione  that the TAC was to be
established prior to the Project's sanctioning, considerable delmay ii
i1mp_tation could have bee evolded  the sae  argument applies to
the fillng of the Project dinistrative Officer coordilation post,
although mention Is warzanted here that the role of this post, which was
later filled through the FAO, was not cler as far as to what its func-
tions were to be outside the PAO component. This wa eventually clarified
but at a much lter stage. The case with the Financial Analyst post for
the PPIN  was different as alreay reported (par. 2.08).
2.11        In s*ury, and based on Its plonned Inputs  nd objectives,
the Project was more of a program  than a cbohrent project, comproisng
6sts of activities pwtly intended for long term institutional goals, and
pWtly as an imediate remedy to production and eport bottlenecks. When
viewed through th ERPs development objectlves, its identification went
a long way ln concentrating on the right issues, but nelther Its propare-
tion nor its appraisal or plans for Implementation were comprehensive
enough to avoid the complicatlons that arose during Its implementation.



10 -
111.  DfLDI" TION
3.01       Apt from the sorvces of the TAG which were already on-
going when the Project's agreent was concluded La erech 1982, the start-
up of techical assistace delivey did not cmmmese  until August 1982
wben one pot for TANS= was filled through the CDC and that was 1 year
before the CDC contract ew  officially finlized. -The ne  post wa not
filled until Jun  1983 through the 1*O frm which date a gradual build up
of inuts bega. The factors behd theme coa iderable delays wre various
and proably can best be repoted through the manner in which the Project
was  ecuted.
3.02       Prior to the sanctioning of the DCa, the Goverament and the
IDA Identified FAG as a pssible Iplemnting agency to handle the bulk
of the Project, acept for the 3 pots identified for TASU, which wwe
to be eusted to th  CDC in view of its pst and cotiued uassstance to
ths subsidiay, and  ceept for the supimutay assistance that was to
follow the establishment of the TAC.
3.03       Following furter  ovr_omnt ad MD  dlcussion  that sub.
sequently Included PAO, carried out in Nty - June 1962, draft agreements
with the TAD ad the CDC ww  prepard in June 1982 an wer eventually
flnalilzd i Januay and in Augut 1983, at a foreign cost of US
$11,885,60 and 293,484 (then approzimtely us $440,000) respectively.
3.04       As already pointed out Cpara.2.07) the budgetay allocation
to the FAG trut fud poject under the abowe agreement would practlcally
have depleted the whole budget of the DCA leaving no provisin for the
other are  to be covead. This was eventually pointed out by the IDA in
Februay 1983 ad the matter appeas to hae ste_d from possible alsunder.
standiAg In the negotlations of amd 1982 which endorsed such arrangement.
AccordingLy a budgetary revision was agree upon and was finally concluded
in August 1983 reducing the total allocation to the FAG to US $8,853,114,



- 11 -
through reductions tn the allocatLons to varLous components,
althougb retaLnang the* am awber of long term posts (27). The
detals wre Included ia Attachmmt I to thli  report.
3.05            tbh  delays In flnalicing the CDC's agre -t wero partly
due to delays In reachlng eonsnous an contractual procedures
e.g. whuther Lt was to be concluded directly with TAZSNED or with
the MAW, and wbether the IDA me to be a countersLgnatory. Further-
more the firat draft agremet whLch was based on the June 1982
dLscusaions, lncluded a clause to the effect that lt would be
construed in all respect. In acoroda6e with the hgiLsh law, which
the MALD did not endore and which ws eventually deleted. The
mda delay. hoawmer, wes because of the action still pending then
to rectlfy the FAG esgem_t, and the CDC's one was finally conc-
uded with th MSL in August 1963, witb a retroactive- ffect back
to auget 12.
3.06            FLnally, there was the elght months delay In estabiLshing
the TAAC, which, in theory, should not have ben lLnked to the
question of flialLing the FAG agremet revision so as to *stab-
lish th  funds needed for the *uppl- nctry technLcal assistance
under the Ccmlttee'a dlposal.
3.07            Tbh  delays ln start-up, and those that followed later in
lnputs delivery, led to the postpon  ent of the Project's closlng
date of end Dember 1986 to end Decmber 1987 as already mentLoned,
so as to help mLaximio the Project's impacts and the utilizatLon of
it. funds.
3.08            The Project was Implemented through the following camponental
sub-projects:
(1)    FAO trust fund project UTFIUUTIO64/URT, comprlsing consult-
ants' services, equLpment and overseas tradning.



- 12 -
(Lt)  The TAlC' e identifled supPlementar  technical aistance,
copising coneultnt' *ervice, equipamt, and oversea  traLnig.
(Although th  consultants' serices wee obtained by the benficLey
institatians through direct o  sub-contraets, the TAlC cosidered
i more practical to have the equipment piocwrmut hadled through
PAD,  hich resulted ia establshig mother trust fund project,
mluIM/o7/U1Ts whle the supplmmentery training awards endorsed
by the Cigttee   e all proesed through UTFIURT#*064/URT).
(Lit) CDCs projecat for TANS , coprising consltants' serLee
_d equipment.
(iv)  The TAG Hiseloua.
3.09 P        ke rlnt details of                                  probln,
Impact and rek       tie of tho Project comentare reprted
Is the follows" Attachnts to this PC, with Attach_mt I
contained L. one          (   and the 4 others In a second Appendix. (3):
=     Attachment    I   :   U'MTI 064/MtT project
=     Attachmt  11           The Supplementar  Consultants'
services
-     Attachment UI      :   .aCC/ITANS    project
_     Attachment  IV   : The TA
_      Attachment   V   :   MTITI0753/    project
3.10         Uhile UTF/URIT/064/UT suheitted regular smi-annual progress
repworts oan Its Iplmentation to the HILO end the IDA, no such
reports wre receLved frm the CDC/TANIZD project until later and
as   result of specific follow up In llne with this component's
agreement. Due to the ibIgulty regarding the Project coordnation
re     sIbI_itiesesmentloned, progress report by the comultants



_ 13 -
fal'ing under the TAAC component wwre only obtained irregulmaly
and on ad boc basis nd, particularly In the c&*e of those -ssagled
to Institutions other than the  ALD, only nar the Project's
closing date.
3.11          There ower several cseo of recruitment delays in the
largest component (UTF/IUT/064/UDT) due to factors detailed in
Attachment 1. No uch delays occurred under the other components
as almot all of the lunmudts were already on post at the time
whe their appoina to were transferred to the Project.
3.12          The bulk of equipuent procurment was undertaken through
U7IJTI0IO64lU=. There we   however, differlng views at the early
tages as to whethe sc  procurast ms  to follow the  A procedures 
_d bidding requirements when applicable. This wa resolved by
Implementing those of the FAD on the basis of UIT/U1T/064/URT
bein  a trust fund project. Although proc  amt wa satisfactory
on the wbole, thwre were nevertheless som delays particularly in
the purchbe of c puters to which FAO wm alerted.
3.13         In discussing the Project local costs i.e. the Government's
contribution, refferece Is mad to the attempts made in this regard
under U F/UV/0614/UT which are reported on page 3 of this camponent's
report. Apart from this endeavour, no satetmnts on such costs were
received from the other institutlons which were beneficiaries to
the TA*C supplentary end CDC components. Annex 1 of this report
contains a comparison between the original DCA allocations end
the final diaburements. The IfD disburseents, based on the applica-
tions and the forecasts submitted, wer on the whole prompt, except
for a short period when delays arocs because of the wrong categoriza-
tion of the disbursements which implied over expenditures in some
of the-oCA's allocations.



- 14-
IV. OPURATIN PUPOUIAIC
4.01          The Proj  ts Inputs and related mtter are detailed Ln
th* Atthest.s to tis reot, giving an assessment of each
component, its Individual contributiose, ad impact. However,
ta arde to arrtve at an oaeall appraisal of the operating
peformae of the whol Project, prior due consideration will
have to be gives to the following issues/outstanding problem
that had a baing on tS pwformace:
(S)     nw short mne in the Project's preaation, as already
reported.
CU)    no           avsdelays in  aitiautng its lplametatis,
again as already rep.*-te.
Citt)  The ftidmntal inttutiont l changes that took place
whilo the Project was oagotng, necesietatin  many chages in its
p1AeU3d services. These are pattculaly detailed in Attachment r.
(* )   The persistent operatoal constraits sp cifically
relatin  to the Institutions to which,the Project"s sevices wr 
dlovered, and those of a geral/nationl chracter *.g. lack
of motivations and certainities, low saary lvels, shortages of
supplies, herdahipe, particularly ia the mor rmte area, ad
other problm. While a Project follow up wa continuously under- 
take  to allevite the ftrst categoy of problm, and fr"uently
obtaining posittve results, the second category was of course
beyond its dmain.
Cv)    The lage nmber of beneficiary tnatitutions and their
geographical spread which, althogh coeing under a limited number
of Ntaistries, actually totalled 20 in ters of prastatals, sub-



- 15 -
aidiarie, bords, diVisio  and unts in 10 ditfret locations
across the csmtry.
(VA)   The large   mer of longtem posts whicb,  part from
the shrt term comeultancies and the TAG,totalled 35 (excluding
3 pots covered by fundig arrangemuts only, and assigned to the
11 and 1), coupled with the asence of a clerly defined
uitoring arrn       t, eept In the cae of project UTFIURT/064/URT,
ad, to a lesser extmt, In that of the CDC/TANSD project.
(vli)  The colexity of sesialiatios that, even If grouped
unde broad caterles, wro addressoing sbetantially diffrent
and sciflc problems related to the lidivtidul posts and the
intitutio  dhy we assgnd to.
(vi,ii) The varying deges of competence of the indvidual
consultats.
(Lx)   The recurret shortcomiags In the national staff perform-
ace despite the adequate qualificatious and background, which
CAn be attributed to slack managmet controls ino sne caes, to
the absence of mora elaborate and uniform systems for Incentives'
rewards and ac-ountability/dIsciplinary measures that could be
implemented with the msianum of procedural CopiLcationU, and to
just a simple unjustified reliance on continued technical assist-
ance ti areas that hrdly require very sophisticated spec Iliaa-
time necessitating prolonsed foreign expertlse services.
(z)    The critical shortages of funds to complement the Project
Inputs, not only in t eRs of foreign eschange (specially for the
Engineering Inputs), but frequently In those of local furds end,
wben available, recurrent disbursement. cosplications.



-16-
(Xi)   The coutined falling of *me institutiovs to secure
th  relevant se*vices of national countert staff despite
their undertking,ia order to benefit from the in-service training
whilo the tcbuna Letats. lasted.
(xIi)   pially, with at leat 4 different IA officers
alternating iLa backtoppinlupezvising the Project, there wew
coniderable diffweeces i approaches to operational probl_s,
interpretations of proedures, ad establlbing area  of priorities.
.4.02          Notwithstanding these ad a mltilte of day-to-dy
lea"s, a detailed review of the deuelop.st impact will reflect
that th  Project wet a long way in meet.ng its objectives,
partAculaly the l.4iat  one. Ibis even applies to quite an
extant to the    ineeri   Inputs whdic  suffed heavily with the
abseae of forelpn          to lWt _achiny nd spars, and
fer whch prpose the Project funds could not be used.  (A.
detailed oan    e 9 of Attachment I in this respet, the arguent
that the pwrastata l  to whic  the  Eineeing posts were assigned,
wer foreign exchange earnes through their crop exports, woo
iconsistent with the major Project objectlve to sdrcess the manage-
m_t and finluial pefomance problms of such parastatals).
4.03           Looking at the other broad compouent, the Accountency
Inputs succeeded in updating a heay backlog of pat yeas  accounts
ad introducedlimplemsnted various systma to improve financial
controls and rorting, while similar  uidance wa rendered through
the financial Audit sevices. Cotton and Tobacco Reseach wVa
conducted with outstanding performsce/results, and measures for
Improved Seed Production were effectively introduced to TANSED
for future aspansion. The  xtesion componeot on the cotton
growing practices In the VCG signlflcantly contributed into
forilng a sound baeo for future extension sorvtces, demsnstratlng



- 17 _
the MthodologiS ftor productlon Increase, ln addiltil to
reactivating the cocSo-econ ic deprtmet of TARO. S1.1lar
cmtribution  wre 3d  to upgrade the HAD's Agricultural
Plamnul  peformce and the mnitoring of its developmet projects,
and, with the Project spport, the gElcultural Statistics surveys
canduted for planing purposes  undervet fundmetal Improvmets
Ax thelr quallty and coerqage. In the came of the Agricultural
Production Sconomics services delivered to NFCO, the nucleus of
an Improved approach to quantity and analyse inputs/outputs in
crder to establlh the  conmic profitability of this parastatal'e
enterprises me formd. Impotant Institutional support ma
redered to the  M and the NPC ia lproving the Trads,  port
Fiuac.  _nd Naket nr i policies/perfomne of the
former, Gad the Cost      Ol/      lU policies of the latter.
filly,  9=in' Introductio  for use for planning, statistical 
nd financal purposes was ccssfully made with all Indications
of efficient future utilization being positive and for which
p.rpose suboequet Inputs to those of the Project wre established.
A surve  conducted by the Proect with a umbr of managments of
the bjeficiery institution also reflected this overall positive
assesnt, and asckowledged failins  in specific area  which
wre beyond the Projeet's abillty to roedy.
4.04           In addition to Its technical services, the Project
provided lrge scale tranaing to the national staff through over-
seas fellowship awards, local workohops, and, witb a number of
limtations, through in-service training. In the first instance
and despite some liltlal delays rising from the lack of award
mechani_m, training progrmes were formulated for the MALD and
*    Its prastatals, and together with the supplementary awards
identifi ed by the TAAC, Ul fellowships for various short and long
term courses were processed. All of those that were completed by



18-
the and of the Project wre sccessful, while a similar outceo
_a  epected with the bela'. still ongoing the. A coplet
list of these, awas we included an p.5.08 and thweafter of
Attwimnt S; local   up workshops wr also conducted, the
mainoo of whih we also listed on p!e 60 of Attachment S,
and idle Li-Gerices trainin  was rendrd satisfactorily in the
mjority of cases and where the natioal counterprt staff
assignts wwr adequate, It nevetheless fell short fro  the
originl e&Apectations when a nmber of the beneficiery institu-
tions failed to provide sub assisments. Stch failings ae
reported whre applcable u d t  tehicl ints of the
Project .
4.0           ri*lly, thr vn substantil  uiPot ipts Intended                          L
to 1vpawe field             office facilities an, s already
repoted, to intodhe and intiate on effective use of cmputers
fw a range of puposes. tt l relant to point out that there
ma cosiderable ambiguity In the Project's design and subsequent
aemts "as to who the Immediate bneficieries unde this
category wold. be, particularly the qestion of vehiles ad as
to what thir allocatIons wer to be. Apat ftm the 2 veiclles
identl ied under te CDC/TAM=  project, the first Woject are-
mast ';r U'/3T10/064/    assigned 27 vehcles, eorespaodng to the
total   I r of consltants, thereby iinuating their allocation.
1ow, It Mao soo, real          afterwad  that such an allocation
will hmpe the field oeatliao  of sume of the components of
WI/M064/1M, prticularly those of the agricultural statistics
reys ad ar   dequate allocations wro therefore made. Other
office material m  purchaed to suport varoue dlrect requre-
ments of the consultats, in addition to a large nmber of audio-
viual equlpmt recaed to support the eztenion services
empoet of the Project.



- 19 _
*                               tV. cwcuzis
5-01          As alreay mentioned under  ectian 11 of this reort,
the Poject wawe of a p*ogrM   then a coherent project, when
looked uo  tblpu  its sets of activities, planned and carrI.ed
out, its  ulti-dieciplinary natwur, tho uaer of the Govenment
Institutions associated with It, and even Its wide geographtcal
spread. Considering these factors io essential tn order to form
the finl e lusits an the Project's effectivlees.
5.02          lhile detaled assesnts of the Project'  design, its
direst inputs, Imtat  ad operational probl_, have bee or
will be 5117 detailed latw, a sinc e unitfor  appaial of
ncease which will apply to the sams degre to all of its Inputs
and Impacts, to therefore not posble when the abowe is taken
into accmmt, beyond that tha core of the objectives wer realized
ad, to all cases, the prseqidiltes for UMroved future opera-
tics were Successfully Mt, with speciflc recsmenatlion  to
enre the continuity of sch oeations. As scb the Project
am be dern  edeu ssful but the fundamental issue that rmns
to the extent to whch the bnficiay institution  are able/
Willing to mintain what was achieved and to expand Lt accord-
tinly.
5.03           It io fairly certain that, ability wvie, such maintenance
and expanelon In most of the cases awe feasible independently of
additional technical asslstmace. Review of certain area prior to
and follwing the end of the Project reflects this in may aspects,
the eceptLons s  lng due to the lack of willinness and added
efforts by s*c of tho beneficiarles, hence the limited continua-
tion of such assistance in sae cases under other wrrangmnts.



- 20 _
lhe prevent Indications, howeer, are positive, ad this ig
partially reflected i thg pWeference of a rimber of sueh
Institutio  with later access to foreign funds, to place ore
__1ase an equipment nd oversas training provisions ta  oan
consltac  sevces.
5.04          Apat frm the techical recendation  Lucluded tn
this report, there are a nber of evident measures overdue for
bolementation that Auld abetantially improve stAff ad institu.
tiomal pefonm=G. Outstanding In the question of added motiva-
tIous and pope accomtablllty, improed mea=et controls,
imoved financial dibarementa procedwres, ad iproved super-
visiom of staff p!fm*  specially vbwe esu   staff hd
benefited fr som eeaa training. Zsatblishiag a vwkable
sytm forp the siatmae of all the equipment prcb"ed,
particularly when suh minteace necessitates the Importation
of supplies fro abroad, ti also very essential to mapdmixe the
beefit. Intended.
5.05            ndoubtedly these couclusiona do not negate Tanzania's
Contu   needs f.r additional techical  assistance Ina   smber
of specific area. The growth of the econmy will continus to
entail a sim*ltaneous growth of _my of the present institutions
while restructuing others, all replrtng added mnpowr lnput
wch my not be fully met throuh the present availability or
qualifications of the Ta1nzana  staff. With this being the
case, some benfits can be derived from the expeience gained
frm the design and iM1mp    tation of this Project to establish
future Ones.



Dovmlop.et Credit Wgbeimnt 1206-TA
TIRID TI fICL ASSISUNCI PROJCT
Disburamutsl3apundituree to Fnd 1987 (SR)
lEA Caty             FM). ulFIlEulV.A     F/O' U   ^WhIDI WS       OAC                         1hi1r          SM.
PRPAMU      IL       ALIWIU
__~~~ -    -   uaut    w
1.     1t       vlcs           S,(9,31         _                         114,S4Q      2,6b.0,9      -          1,169,35     1     m,8m0
2. Uia,    .
qwAiI eq...)               1,EU1,5                  *,m               23,811          -          -           ,10,831      13300
3. haUalsw                    1,6,h0,1                  _                  _             _           -         1,465,13    1,130,800
4. 3d.fuala fin
ft.tt ft     _          _ut                                             _             -       :8,J0          11,301      1" ,0
A-bsAl (0         )        71,7n 1.90              *M                331f63       2.Ca,k4. 9    U8,        10?,3Z        9.10,.1m
5m.l...d                        135                     S,                        -                                142,3    I,z.UM
Tow (olobsmmnw~~*94                                     137e6        2,m6,c69    U.3M        10.99.40i    ZDtID,w
11 Ium1l1us Wes 1A projwt suvlciu chwi.
21 hm1WUa Fr. v pujnt e             _tuvcte dwhm
3) I $ Evalut CmVy   (1) 5,i0.453
Cmgy (2) 1,1M1,6
Cetq.7 (3) 1,52,8.
8,191,912
II



