Document of                FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3190-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
January 21, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00            =    US$0.12
US$1.00             =    TSh 8.30
US$1.00             =    SDR 0.85
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which is close to the 1981 average
exchange rate. The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this report is that of
November 30, 1981.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BET            -    Board of External Trade
CAT            -    Coffee Authority of Tanzania
Kilimo/MOA     -    Ministry of Agriculture
NAFCO          -    National Agricultural and Food Corporation
NMC            -    National Milling Corporation
PPMB           -    Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
TANSEED        -    Tanzania Seed Company Limited
TAT            -    Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TCA            -    Tanzania Cotton Authority
TSA            -    Tanzania Sisal Authority
TS&E           -    Directorate of Technical Services and Extension
-      at Kilimo
UNDP           -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID          -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 to June 30



- i -                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:             SDR 10.2 million (US$12 million) equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Project             The Project would finance technical assistance require-
Description:      ments principally in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and its key parastatals as well as for a limited number
of other Government agencies. The Project would also
finance an Advisory Group which has been set up to
assist the Government in designing an economic recovery
program.
Benefit:            The technical assistance would support the Government's
Export Rehabilitation Program by eliminating manpower
bottlenecks in the agricultural sector and promoting the
generation and saving of foreign exchange.
Risk:               There is some risk of delays in recruiting the necessary
personnel, owing to the large number and specialized
nature of their work; however, these would be kept to a
minimum with the involvement of FAO and appropriate
administrative arrangements at MOA.
Estimated
Project Costs:                                    Local  Foreign  Total1
…-   US$ Million-----
Technical Assistance                            1.8     7.5     9.3
Training                                       0.3      0.8     1.1
Vehicles and Support Equipment                 0.1      0.8     0.9
Advisory Group                                 0.3      0.6     0.9
Subtotal                         -          2.5      9.7    12.2
Contingencies
Physical                                    0.3      1.2     1.5
Price                                       0.2      1.1     1.3
Total                                       3.0    12.0    15.0
lExcept for the vehicles and support equipment, the project would be
exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal year                 1983    1984    1985    1986       1987
-----     US$ Million----------------
Annual                           1.0     2.5      5.0     2.5       1.0
Cumulative                       1.0     3.5      8.5    11.0      12.0
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal    No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared for
Report:           this Project.
Map:                IBRD 2802R3



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
*  1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 10.2 million (US$12.O
million) equivalent on standard terms to help finance a Technical
Assistance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1
2.        An economic mission visited Tanzania in March and June 1980.  Its
report (3086-TA) dated January 23, 1981, has been distributed to the
Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic data is given in
Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest indus-
trial base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and
trained personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the Govern--
ment's development strategy resembled that of many other less developed
countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national self-suffic --
ency in skilled manpower, and relying largely on market forces. This
approach, in the Government's view, led to unacceptable economic and social
conditions, such as widening income differentials and unequal opportunities
for advancement in the rural areas. In response to this situation, the
nationa'l development strategy was reassessed in 1967. The new priorities,
enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were
directed towards establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis on
broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and
the development of mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State,
with guidance from the Party2, was expected to play the leading role,
lThis section is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report on the Second Songo-Songo Petroleum Exploration Project, dated
December 10, 1981.
2The single mainland political party at the time was TANU, but in
February 1977, it merged with Zanzibar's Afro-Shirazi Party to form the
Revolutionary Party, or Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



- 2 -
especially in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This
led in the late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry,
commerce and finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the
formation of ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of
government (1972), and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
4.         Despite some dsruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the peric,^l7 Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Primary school enroll-
ments increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years,
and access to safe wate-; increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP
grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP
from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization improved with recur-
rent revenues rising from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.
However, the productive sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new
investments (which was centered on the industry and transport sectors) was
poor.  Perhaps the principal disappointment was in agriculture, the domi-
nant sector in the economy, which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to
1973.  This growth was also uneven among regions and precluded any narrow-
ing of rural-urban income differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress
towards localizing key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower
requirements remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By
1973, the issues which were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the
1970s were becoming clear: How quickly could a country with limited
trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally administered
economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the expense of
efficiency and incentives; how long could the country afford these costs?
What could be done to improve the growth rate of the monetized, productive
sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Agricultural
production also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at
this time (decentralization and villagization), and there was a serious
shortfall in foodgrain production. The Government was forced into the
world market, making large purchases of foodgrain for cash. Food imports
rose from US$39 million in 1973 to US$149 million in 1974 and US$136
million in 1975. Export crop production also fell during this period and
the barter terms of trade fell by about one-third during these two years.
As a result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million in 1973
to around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the
recurrent budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from
TSh.416 million in 1973/74 to TSh 753 million in 1974/75 and TSh 1,061
million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance
from the IMF and a program loan from the Bank. Under this program, import



- 3 -
levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government development
expenditures' were redirected towards the productive sectors, and Lhe
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize.  While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted: declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and
productive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and
infrastructure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, increased foreign assistance and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978. The
current account deficit fell to less than US$100 million in 1976 and less
than US$175 million in 1977, well below the 1975 deficit of US$340
million. The Government made a net repayment of TSh. 24 million to the
banking system in 1976/77. During 1978, the overly stringent import
controls were relaxed at the same time as the terms of trade began to
deteriorate again. The balance of payments went into deficit and foreign
reserves were drawn down. Then, in October 1978, the country was invaded
by forces from Uganda. The resulting war, the oil price increases of 1979
and flooding and drought in different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening
balance of payments deficit and the Government built up major arrears on
its import payments for the first time since Independence. The domestic
budget fell heavily into deficit as expenditures (led by defense) rose by
50% from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and revenues improved by only 10%. As a
result, Government borrowing from the banking system increased from TSh.
600 million in 1977/78 to more than TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such
borrowing was the major factor in money supply growth, which exceeded 53%
in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this later
trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture, which
seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project experience and
the known marketed surpluses of food. Assuming a more realistic growth
rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture, overall GDP growth
1Government development expenditures account for about two-thirds of
public sector investment, which in turn accounts for 50-60% of total
investment.



- 4 -
since 1973 would also be reduced to 4.0% per annum. With population
growing by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase in per capita
GDP of only 0.7% per annum. There also has been a change in the structure
of the economy over the past six years, away from the productive monetary
sector and towards subsistence and service activities. Excluding public
administration, commercial services and trade, the monetary sector has
grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past six years, well below the popu-
lation growth rate. This change in the structure of the economy has been a
major factor hampering the Government-s efforts to mobilize domestic
resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20%-40% of domestic investment. However, the depend-
ence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975. The low
return on investments is reflected in the incremental capital-output ratio
for the monetary sector, which was around 4.5 at the start of the decade
and rose to between 6 and 7 by the end of it.
10.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The
long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace
with population growth and if anything has fallen in more recent years as
the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has
been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the
limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of rural
development has continuously been highlighted in Government statements,
including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not always
been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or
in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction of the
Government-s post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize
the transformation of the institutional structure of rural development
(through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement in the
sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production directly.
Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly, without
careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they could
not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled manpower
and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of the role
of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Government's
willingness to use them to influence the pattern of agricultural produc-
tion. The trend towards greater public involvement in agriculture has also
continued and with the resultant proliferation of parastatals and increa-
singly complex structure of administration, the available manpower has been
stretched even more thinly. This has resulted in weakened capacity for
policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension. The deterioration of transport services also has contributed to



the poor performance of agriculture. Roads, railways and water transport
have deteriorated owing to a lack of spare parts, poor maintenance and
inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The decline in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks and
external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe deterio-
ration in the balance of payments over the past two to three years. Export
volumes are estimated to have fallen by 7% during 1980, to a level one-
third below the peaks of the mid-1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, the
terms of trade have declined by 27% since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a
sharp increase in import costs, especially for petroleum, at a time when
the overall level of export prices has been rising very slowly. Owing to
these adverse developments, the purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in
1980 was one-third lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level.
Part of this shortfall has been offset by additional external resources,
including a sharp increase in commodity and program aid to more than US$200
million in 1980, as well as by drawings under the IMF standby program
concluded in September 1980. But Tanzania has also had to utilize large
amounts of exceptional financing, including suppliers' credits and an
increase in import payment arrears. Despite this, the volume of imports
has had to be severely curtailed, and in 1980, was still no higher than in
the mid-1970s.
12.       Given the recent negative developments on coffee prices and oil
supplies, as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing,
there is little prospect for any immediate improvement in the balance of
payments, and present indications are that the situation continued to
deteriorate during 1981. This continuing balance of payments constraint is
inevitably having a debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports
reducing production and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in
further falls in exports and available foreign exchange. This vicious
circle will be difficult to break, unless there is a substantial injection
of foreign exchange and major changes in domestic policies designed to
improve producer incentives, parastatal operations, import allocations, the
promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall government planning and
budgeting.  The Government recently announced significantly higher producer
prices for coffee, sisal and tobacco. A Special Agricultural Account was
also established at the Bank of Tanzania to ensure that a substantial
proportion of foreign exchange earnings are returned to the agricultural
sector. This Export Rehabilitation Program is being supported by a
recently approved credit from IDA (Cr. No. 1133-TA) and is beginning to
show some results (see paragraphs 34-35).
13.       Discussions with the IMF, however, on a possible credit under the
Extended Fund Facility have yet to bear fruit. Access to Fund facilities
was interrupted in December 1980, when the Government was found to be in
violation of important performance targets (on arrears, public spending and
domestic credit expansion) established only three months before.



- 6 -
Discussions of a possible EFF arrangement were started in March 1981 and
were meant to be consummated in June 1981, with the completion of a joint
IMF-Government study of the exchange rate problem. Instead, no
agreement was reached on the need for a devaluation or for other measures
such as reduced price controls and higher interest rates. Substantive
discussions of these questions are not likely to be resumed until early
1982; however, without an early settlement with the IMF, it is difficult to
envisage a viable plan for economic recovery. This is particularly the
case because of the very scale of Tanzania's requirements for balance of
payments support and a necessary overlap between the IMF's policy concerns
(e.g. the exchange rate) and any effective measures for rehabilitating the
productive sectors of the economy.
14.       Even if export performance improves significantly, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next two to three years. To sustain an increase in per capita GDP
will require, in addition to major policy reforms, increasing amounts of
aid in real terms and a careful review of import requirements, especially
with a view to screening out low priority projects with long gestation
periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the prospects would be
for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s as a whole, with a
substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid this, there will need
to be continued emphasis on export performance and a concerted effort to
improve the level of capacity utilization and efficiency in the economy.
Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing vital food production.
External Debt
15.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt
service burden is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment
and new borrowings, including some on commercial terms, are required to
meet the widening balance of payments gap. Such borrowings, together with
very poor export prospects, could raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20%
during the 1980s. In 1980, it is estimated that the Bank held 14% of
Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed (for the Bank Group, it
was 28%) and received 25% of Tanzania's debt service (27% for the Bank
Group). This relatively high level of Bank exposure reflects in part the
impact of recent debt write-offs, totalling US$277 million in 1978 and
1979. We are projecting the Bank Group's share in debt service to fall
over the coming decade owing to the reduced IBRD component in the lending
program and the continued need for Tanzania to borrow funds on less conces-
sional terms from other sources.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIAl
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 50 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$996.3 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania.  In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the development of
the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the
Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. An IFC investment of US$1.7
million in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal
product manufacturing was approved in May, 1979. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and
the East African Community organizations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.       In support of Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank Group
lending operations have assisted a wide spectrum of activities. Nearly
every sector in which the Bank Group has operational capacity has received
some attention. However, future work is expected to concentrate on: (i)
agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv)
education and manpower development. As agriculture and related activities
constitute the largest single sector in the economy, it has received 30%
of the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania. The lending program in
agriculture has featured three main types of projects: (a) regional rural
development projects focusing on production and the development of regional
infrastructure, (b) projects centered on specific crops (such as maize,
tea, tobacco and pyrethrum) and (c) projects designed to improve general
support services (e.g. rural credit, grain storage). However, in view of
past underfinancing of capital maintenance and replacement in the sector,
new Bank Group lending will focus on rehabilitation and use of existing
agricultural production and processing capacity, rather than on expansion
of such capacity.
18.       Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport and communications. Transportation difficulties are
critical constraints to development in Tanzania. Indeed, the Government's
inability to ensure the timely availability of inputs or the regular
collection of crops has been a major bottleneck to increased production in
the agriculture sector. Furthermore, during the seventies, transport
investments were primarily concentrated around the Tanzania-Zambia Corridor
and since 1977, no systematic investment program has been prepared for the
1This section is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report on the Second Songo-Songo Petroleum Exploration Project, dated
December 10, 1981.



subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations. Bank Group activities
are intended to develop a more coherent investment program in transport
and communications and to strengthen the ministries and newly established
national corporations responsible for railways, ports, and telecommunica-
tions. In industry, future lending is expected to support well developed
financial intermediaries like the Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB) which are
intending to consolidate their portfolios and stress capacity utilization
and export promotion. Shortages in skilled manpower are also a worsening
bottleneck to development. Bank Group involvement in education is expected
to continue support for specialized training and the development of the
secondary education sector to assist the Government in meeting its manpower
needs.
19.       Projects which have been recently approved or appraised reflect
the above outlined priorities. Those approved include a Pyrethrum Project
(Credit No. 1007-TA), a Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No.
1015-TA), a Tea Processing Project (Credit No. 1037-TA), the Dar es Salaam
Port Engineering Project (Credit No. S-24-TA), a Seventh Education Project
(Credit No. 1056-TA), and a Telecommunications Project (Credit No.
1173-TA). Projects which have been appraised include a second forestry
project, a second line of credit to the Tanganyika Development Finance
Corporation (TDFL), a small scale industries project and a fifth line of
credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB). However, improvements in the
economic policy environment will be critical for effective lending through
intermediaries such as TDFL and TIB.
20.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has
occasionally provided non-project credits in support of the Government's
efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties. The first such
credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent, an Export
Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1153-TA), in April 1981 (see para. 35
for progress under the latter). Further assistance of this kind would
require agreement on an economic reform program as well as renewed access
to IMF facilities (see also para. 34).
21.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is to some extent the result of the
recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects problems in
project implementation, particularly in agriculture and rural development.
The causes of these difficulties are varied. To a large extent they arise
from the scarcity of suitably trained and experienced manpower, which calls
for stepped-up efforts in higher education and specialized training, as
well as for sustained high levels of technical assistance in future project
design. Other implementation problems reflect the difficulty of identify-
ing and disseminating agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of
smallholder farmers or result from administrative overextension in the
undertaking of a far-reaching development program. These problems have
been compounded by frequent and fundamental administrative changes, which
--though potentially the source of long-term benefits--have disrupted
orderly execution of some projects and made aspects of other project
designs obsolete. The Uganda war had some early impact on project imple-
mentation by diverting equipment and manpower away from development



- 9 -
purposes; however, by contributing to the current economic crisis, the
temporary logistical problems caused by the conflict have been superseded
by deeper and more lasting difficulties arising from a critical shortage of
essential goods and services. During the last year, the direct and
indirect effects of prolonged under-financing of essential import
requirements have become painfully obvious. Most industrial facilities
were working at less than thirty percent of their installed capacity and
the lack of maintenance and operations funds (particularly for replacement
equipment, spare parts, and fuel) was compounding the already serious
effects of deferred maintenance of capital stock, especially in the
agriculture sector. Until the general economic situation improves, the
outlook is for continued and sometimes unforseen interruptions in project
implementation and disbursements.
22.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increased
attention has been given to measures designed to improve specific aspects
of project implementation. Courses on Bank Group procurement have been
held in Dar es Salaam for relevant Government officials. A special project
implementation unit has been set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and 11
Agricultural Development Services staff have been attached to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The Government has
assigned responsibility for the monitoring of project performance to a
specialized unit at the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs. Since
February 1977 there has been a Government/Bank Group review of implementa-
tion problems on a project-by-project basis. In October 1980, a major
Country Implementation Review was held in Arusha at which all Bank-financed
agricultural projects were examined, with a view to discussing sectoral
issues in addition to project-related matters.
East African Community (EAC)
23.       Major developments affecting the East African Community were out-
lined in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and more recent developments were reported in a statement to the
Executive Directors during their meeting of May 6, 1980. The three former
Partner States have employed Dr. Victor Umbricht as an independent mediator
to recommend an appropriate disposition of the assets and liabilities of
the Community corporations and the General Fund Services. Dr. Umbricht has
visited East Africa on numerous occasions, has employed consultants to
assist in the appraisal of Community assets and liabilities, and in March
1980 made formal recommendations on the allocation of these assets and
liabilities. Meetings at ministerial level to discuss the Mediator's
proposals were held in Arusha in May 1980, and in Kampala in February
1981. A follow-up meeting was held in Nairobi on August 6 and formal nego-
tiations began in December 1981 on the basis of the Mediator's proposals.
Meanwhile, the Mediator's report and recommendations on the future struc-
ture of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted by the
Partner States and the revised EADB Charter, along with the Treaty to enact
the new Charter, have been ratified by the three Governments.



- 10 -
PART III - THE EXPORT SECTOR AND THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
24.       As agricultural exports account for about 80% of total export
earnings, the performance of the export sector has been as disappointing as
that of the agricultural sector. Export volumes are now estimated to be
30% lower than in the mid-1960's, and as a percentage of GDP, export
earnings have fallen from 25% in 1966 to only 11% in 1979. Although export
earnings have at times risen very sharply, this has been due entirely to
favorable external price movements, such as the coffee boom of 1976-77.
The underlying trend in export volumes has been consistently downward for
the past 15 years.
Traditional Exports
25.       Although Tanzania's export structure is more diversified than for
many other African countries, seven commodities--coffee, cotton, cloves,
sisal (fiber, cordage and twine), cashews (nuts and kernels), tea and
tobacco--still account for more than two-thirds of total export earnings.
In 1980, the total export volume of these seven commodities was 28% lower
than in 1966 and 34% lower than in 1973. Of these items, only tea has
risen consistently since the mid-1960s: sisal and cotton have steadily
declined, cashews and tobacco have recently been falling from their peaks
in the mid-1970s, and coffee and cloves have fluctuated around a stagnant
trend. In the cases of tobacco and cotton, rising domestic consumption in
recent years has reduced the share of production available for export.
There are several reasons for this disappointing level of export produc-
tion.
26.       First, official producer prices have not kept pace with world
prices and domestic costs. Recent studies indicate that the price terms of
trade for marketed smallholder production of food and export crops fell by
over 20% during the 1970s. Furthermore, within the agricultural sector,
there was a sharp movement in relative prices in favor of food crops
vis-a-vis export crops during the mid-1970s which has only been partially
corrected in recent years. As a result, the price terms of trade for
export crops fell by almost one-third during the 1970s. This sharp real
fall in producer prices was not determined primarily by world market
prices. More important factors were the rising marketing and administra-
tive costs of the parastatals handling these crops and higher export
duties, which reduced the farmers' share in export earnings from coffee,
cotton, tobacco and cashews to below 50%. These price developments have
led to a diversion of supplies into unofficial channels (e.g. coffee),
neglect and in some cases abandonment of tree and bush crops (e.g. coffee,
sisal and cashews), and substitution of subsistence production for the
annual export crops (e.g. cotton and tobacco).
27.       Second, there have been inadequate allocations of foreign
exchange to meet the basic import requirements of the agricultural sector
and of the supporting infrastructure in processing and transport. Although



- 11 -
this problem has become more critical with the recent deterioration in the
balance of payments, agriculture has historically not received a share of
import allocations commensurate with its importance to the economy and its
contribution to foreign exchange earnings. The resultant list of shorta-
ges, which have in many cases led to a net foreign exchange loss for
Tanzania, is long: for coffee, inadequate imports of chemicals required to
control coffee berry disease; for cotton, shortages of fuel and spares to
maintain ginnery throughput, and insufficient bags for packing; and for
cashew tinning, inadequate allocations for tinplate and carbon dioxide.
More generally, Tanzania's traditional exports have been restricted by
severe shortages of imported spares to maintain tractors, trucks for crop
collection, road maintenance equipment, processing capacity, and rail and
port operations. The resulting processing and transport bottlenecks have
been particularly severe for coffee and cotton over the past year, leaving
large quantities of potential exports still stockpiled at the farms,
processing plants and railheads. Large scale sugar cultivation and
processing (mainly for domestic consumption) have also been severely
affected.
28.       Third, the shortages of basic inputs and spares have been
compounded by the generally poor organization and inefficient operations of
the parastatal crop authorities. Initially, these parastatals acted in
competition with private traders, but have steadily expanded their market-
ing role, and now have monopoly control over all of the major crops. They
have also extended their functions vertically from purely marketing into
production, input distribution, extension services and processing. With
persistent manpower shortages and organizational problems, the performance
of many of these agricultural parastatals has been less than satisfactory.
This has led to delays and shortfalls in the distribution of inputs and
collection of produce (e.g. coffee), poorly organized research and exten-
sion services (e.g. tobacco), and deteriorating operating and maintenance
standards for processing equipment and transport (e.g. tea and sisal).
Most of the parastatals are also facing increasing financial problems, with
undercapitalization, inadequate financial management (most accounts are two
to three years out of date) and tightening cash flow positions (which are
making it difficult to maintain prompt payments to farmers).
29.       Fourth, inadequate emphasis has been given to the development of
research and extension. To date, the Government has not made critical
decisions required to improve the organization and management of agricul-
tural extension, the responsibility for which is divided among the Ministry
of Agriculture, the Prime Minister's Office (responsible for regional
administration) and several parastatals. The organization of research has
not been adequately guided by technical considerations, leading recently to
a decision to establish two separate parastatals for crop and livestock
research. The result has been inadequate research on appropriate technical
packages and an ineffective extension system to deliver these packages to
the farmer. In tobacco, for example, field management and husbandry stand-
ards seem to be deteriorating. In cotton, there has been a paucity of
research on appropriate technologies, especially regarding fertilizer
levels and application methods.



- 12 -
30.       Finally, in addition to these general constraints, there are a
number of problems which have been particularly important for specific
crops. For cashews, the villagization program in the mid-1970s moved many
farmers away from the scattered trees, increasing the costs and effort of
caring for the trees and collecting the nuts. Mozambique's independence
also diverted refugee labor away from the cashew-growing areas.  Tobacco
curing has been increasingly constrained by wood fuel shortages, due in
part to the depletion of convenient sources and in part to the movement of
farmers under the villagization program. The Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
(TAT) has not been able to undertake its own afforestation program to help
relieve these shortages, due to its constrained financial position.  Clove
production has been badly affected by two virus diseases as well as by the
advanced age of most trees on Zanzibar and Pemba. For coffee, exports from
the West Lake region were reduced by at least 8,000 tons during 1980, owing
to a boiler explosion at the Bukoba factory in October 1979 and the break-
down in February 1980 of the rail ferry which is normally used to move the
coffee to Mwanza.
Non-Traditional Exports
31.       In 1980, manufactured exports earned about US$115 million, or
about 20% of total export receipts.1 However, more than 60% of this amount
was contributed by petroleum products and diamonds, neither of which
provides a basis for medium-term growth: Tanzania is a net importer of
petroleum products (and increasingly so), while the single diamond mine is
gradually being depleted. The residual manufactured exports include
primary-based products such as textiles and garments, leather and shoes,
and wattle extract,2 as well as a range of minor industrial goods based on
imported components, such as aluminum products, batteries, and electrical
goods. The value of these residual items fluctuated around US$20 million
per annum over the six years ending in 1978, with no increasing trend
despite rapidly rising market prices. However, led by increased exports of
textiles and garments to neighboring countries, their value has grown
markedly over the past two years to US$33 million in 1979 and an estimated
US$45 million in 1980. Although exports of manufactured products are still
too small to provide an adequate offset to the disappointing performance of
the traditional products, their continued development is important to
ensure that a broader base is established for export growth over the medium
term.
1For the purpose of this Report, the category of non-traditional
exports includes both manufactured goods and a number of small and
relatively new agricultural exports, including animal feed and seed beans,
which together earned about US$45 million in 1980. However, the primary
focus of this section is on manufactured exports.
2Wattle is an acacia tree whose bark is used in leather tanning.



- 13 -
32.       Some of the causes of the slow development of manufactured
exports can be attributed to external factors such as protectionism,
restricted market competition and discriminating freight rates; the breakup
of the EAC in early 1977 and subsequent closure of the Kenya border have
also had an adverse effect. However, taken together, these factors do not
seem to present an impenetrable barrier to export success. Rather, the
more fundamental problems seem to lie in the domestic economy: the high
cost structure of the industrial sector, shortages of foreign exchange and
agricultural inputs, the limited availability of domestic credit, transport
bottlenecks, and inadequate quality control and marketing facilities.
33.       To help overcome these handicaps, the Government has over the
years introduced a limited range of measures to help promote manufactured
exports. These include: (i) the import duty drawback scheme, which
provides for the exemption or remission of all duties on imports used by
domestic manufacturers to produce exports; (ii) the differential export
duty scheme, which allows exporters to buy certain domestic commodities at
prices net of export duties; (iii) the establishment in 1978 of the Board
of External Trade (BET), to advise the Government on matters relating to
national export policy and to help establish programs to expand trade rela-
tions and promote export sales; and (iv) the allocation of additional
import licenses to exporters. Unfortunately, none of these measures has
yet been very effective in fostering export development: administrative
problems have severely limited the operation of both the duty drawback and
differential export duty schemes and the foreign exchange crisis has
frustrated attempts to channel additional import licenses to exporters.
Export Rehabilitation Program
34.    - To address some of the problems outlined above, the Government
decided in March 1981 to introduce an Export Rehabilitation Program, with
the support of a US$50 million credit from the Association. (See Report
No. P-3009-TA). Measures adopted under the Program included substantial
increases in some agricultural producer prices, the reservation of a
minimum amount of foreign exchange for the import needs of agriculture and
a system for allocating foreign exchange more effectively within the
sector. The Government also decided to undertake a study of agricultural
producer prices, to take appropriate follow-up action and to prepare and
implement an action program for improving agricultural services, such as
research, extension, input delivery and crop collection. However, wider
economic issues such as export diversification, financial planning and
control, parastatal efficiency and higher and sustained incentives to
production remained to be addressed satisfactorily. As a result, during
negotiations of the Export Rehabilitation Credit in March 1981, agreement
was reached on a Memorandum of Understanding on Follow-Up Measures. These
included more restraint and selectiveness in the public investment program,
more emphasis in the recurrent budget on the operations and maintenance
needs of the economy, improved foreign exchange budgeting, a re-examination
of the roles (particularly purchasing mandates) of the State-owned crop
authorities, improvements in parastatal accounts, the introduction of more



- 14 -
payments-by-results schemes in industry and a review of subsidy and cost
recovery arrangements in the public sector. The Government also agreed
that an independent Advisory Group would be established to assist the
Government in preparing a comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation
and recovery.
35.       Since the Export Rehabilitation Program was introduced, some
progress has been made. Cashewnut and coffee marketings are substantially
up over 1979-80 levels, and the improved foreign exchange allocation system
appears to be operating well. The producer price policy study has been
completed and the Government has announced further large increases in
producer prices. The Government has also departed from the principle of
uniform national prices for major food crops in order to take better
account of regional differences in marketing costs. The public investment
program has also been reduced for the first time since Independence, and
there is more emphasis on rehabilitating or improving the use of existing
capital facilities than on initiating new projects. The Advisory Group
(para. 45) has been established and has begun its work, which is expected
to be completed in April 1982. The Government has also defined in consi-
derable detail the technical assistance requirements at the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, the BET and key
parastatals operating in the export sector. However, there is still
considerable progress to be made in further tailoring government plans to
resources likely to be available during the next five years, in
rationalizing the role of the public sector, in increasing incentives to
production and in concentrating resources on improving traditional
agriculture.
The Need for Technical Assistance
36.       Since Independence, Tanzania has made considerable efforts in the
mobilization and development of skilled manpower to meet the growing
requirements of the national economy. External support has been provided
by a wide range of bilateral and multilateral donors, including UNDP, the
Scandinavian countries, USAID, Canada, and the Federal Republic of Germany,
both in the form of technical cooperation personnel and training for
Tanzanian nationals. The Bank Group has also met particular requirements
for internationally recruited personnel and training in the context of
individual projects in most sectors. In addition, two technical assistance
credits were approved in 1975 and 1980 (see para. 40 below).
37.       Despite this high level of external assistance during the 1970s,
the country's impatience for broad-based development has led to an over-
extension of financial and manpower resources. As a result, the manpower
deficit has grown larger rather than smaller in recent years and it is
particularly acute in some areas. The agricultural sector has been espe-
cially hard hit by the scarcity of skilled and experienced personnel.
Recent surveys indicate that in the central agricultural administration
category, 37% of requirements remained unfilled. For the agricultural
parastatals the comparable figure is 44%. Such shortages are projected to



- 15 -
grow both in absolute and relative terms at least through 1985. A number
of factors have contributed to this situation. The most important of these
has been the rapid growth in the number of agricultural parastatals and in
the scale of their operations. Another factor has been the rapid locali-
zation of key posts, which has sometimes been at the expense of staff
experience and continuity.   Professionals in shortest supply include
accountants, agricultural economists, mechanical and maintenance engineers
and marketing specialists.
38.       One important requirement for resolving such personnel shortages
includes slowing the growth of manpower requirements in the public sector,
by consolidating and perhaps restricting the functions of parastatal
organizations. There is also a need for stepped-up training efforts in
specialized fields. However, some positions need to be filled immediately
regardless of the timing of these longer term adjustments as such positions
will remain important regardless of whether particular services or
production are performed by the private or public sector. This includes
technical support for agricultural processing facilities and strengthening
the planning capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture. The UNDP and other
traditional sources of technical assistance for Tanzania are unable to
accomodate some of these specialized requirements during FY82 and FY83.
For this reason, the Association has been approached by the Government to
do so instead, and is well-suited to respond both on the basis of its
considerable project knowledge of the agricultural sector and its close
working relationship with the FAO, which would handle recruitment under the
proposed project (para. 55).
39.       Recent Bank Group Assistance to Agriculture.  Approximately half
of all Bank Group lending to Tanzania during FY80 and FY81 has been to the
agricultural sector. This has included small amounts of technical assis-
tance to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank, the Tanzania Tea Authority,
the Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board and the National Coconut Development Progam
(see Reports No. P-2707-TA dated February 13, 1980, No. P-2754 dated March
31, 1980, No. P-2814-TA dated May 14, 1980, and P-2878-TA dated September
18, 1980). Major assistance was provided to the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) under the Grain Storage and Milling Project (see Report No. P-2775-TA
dated April 15, 1980) to strengthen the Marketing Development Bureau (MDB)
and the Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau (PPMB) of the Ministry.
MIDB was established in 1970 to review agricultural pricing policy on an
annual basis and to make recommendations to the Economic Committee of
Cabinet on such issues.  PPMB was established in 1978 to prepare, supervise
and monitor projects being implemented under the Ministry. More recently,
PPMB has been given responsibility for examining and recommending improve-
ments in the financial operations of agricultural parastatals. Under the
proposed project, this agency would assist the Director of Planning within
MOA in administering the technical assistance team.
40.       The proposed credit would be IDA's third for technical assistance
purposes in Tanzania. The first two, for US$6.0 million in 1975 and
USS11.0 million equivalent in 1980, were designed to finance feasibility



- 16 -
and other preinvestment studies in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiency and capacity utilization under existing invest-
ments and training for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation,
evaluation and related techniques. The Tanzania Investment Bank is respon-
sible for implementing these credits. No resources were set aside in these
credits for financing long-term advisory services. (See Report No.
P-2866-TA dated July 17, 1980.)
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The technical assistance requirements to be met from the proposed
credit were first identified during appraisal of the Export Rehabilitation
Program in October-November 1980. At that time, and again during negotia-
tions of this Program in March 1981, it was recognized that agreed policy
and administrative adjustments would need to be complemented with technical
assistance, particularly in the agricultural sector, as well as broadened
into a more comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
(Both aspects of this follow-up work would be financed under the proposed
credit.) Detailed discussions of the manpower requirements of the
Ministry of Agriculture and key parastatal organizations were held in March
and July 1981. An Advisory Group to assist the Government in preparing a
recovery program was established by August 1981 and an advance from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved to support its start-up
activities. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington
in December 1981. The Tanzanian delegation was headed by Mr. David
Masanja, Principal Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. A Credit and
Project Summary is at the front of this Report and Annex III contains
supplemental project data.
Objectives and Description
42.       The primary purpose of the proposed project, like that of the
Export Rehabilitation Program, would be to eliminate bottlenecks, in this
case related to manpower, that inhibit the generation and saving of foreign
exchange. This would be achieved by supplementing the support already
provided by IDA and other donors for essential imports to the agricultural
sector with internationally recruited manpower in key areas. A secondary
but closely related objective of the project would be to assist the
Government in preparing a wider program of economic measures and rehabili-
tation activities which will contribute to long-term recovery. While
manpower development would not be a major objective of the project,
sufficient funds would be included to define and meet Tanzanian training
needs in specific areas.
43.       The project would involve an IDA credit of SDR 10.2 million
(US$12 million equivalent) over 5 years, to finance the first phase of a
longer term program of manpower support in Tanzania's productive sectors,
particularly agriculture. The Project would consist of four components:



- 17 -
(a) Technical Assistance to the Agricultural Sector, including:
- emergency managerial/technical/operational assistance to
agricultural corporations (e.g. Tanzania Cotton
Authority, Tanzania Sisal Authority, Coffee Authority of
Tanzania etc.)
- assistance to improve the financial control and
management of important parastatals in the sector, and
- advisory assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture in
planning and policy analysis;
(b) Advisory Assistance regarding medium- and short-term
national economic policy;
(c) Training for Tanzanians; and
(d) Unallocated funds for supplementary studies and other
activities yet to be fully identified.
The project would also include vehicles, office equipment and other
logistical support for the specialists hired under the project.
Detailed Features
44.       Assistance to the Agricultural Sector.  During appraisal of the
Export Rehabilitation Program, thirty important vacancies were identified
at the Ministry of Agriculture and those parastatals accounting for the
largest share of the country's exports earnings and potential import
savings. While the Rehabilitation Program focussed on the constraint of
imported materials, equipment and spare parts, the proposed credit would
aim to redress the equally serious problem of the shortage of technical
personnel in key agricultural industries.   The initial list of identified
vacancies was used by the Ministry as a basis for consulting parastatals
and other agencies in greater detail about the relative priority and
economic significance of their manpower requirements. As a result of a
large scale response from the organizations--which requested some one
hundred fifty individuals--the Ministry of Agriculture was unable to
finalize its revised list before August 1981. In selecting the positions
for inclusion in the proposed technical assistance program for the
agricultural sector, several criteria were used. First, agricultural
industries were selected on the basis of their importance in earning or
saving foreign exchange. For example, the Coffee Authority (CAT), the
Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA) and the Tanzania Sisal Authority (TSA)
account for about half of the country's total export earnings. Only those
positions not included in actual or prospective projects were considered,
and only the most fundamental constraints were examined. Furthermore, to
ensure that the technical assistance would be effective, teams comprising
complementary technical and managerial skills, rather than individuals,
were decided upon. Generally, line production functions and technical



- 18 -
skills were given highest priority.  In addition to filling these
positions, there is an urgent need to strengthen the overall planning
capacity of MOA to better perform its generally recognized advisory and
service functions. Therefore, some positions in the Planning Department of
MOA would be included in the proposed technical assistance program. These
include several economist/planners and up to nine financial management
advisors who would come under the administrative control of PPMB within MOA
and be seconded to the agricultural parastatals to generate the data needed
to better control and manage their operations. The list of the proposed
agricultural staff is summarized in Table 1. (The organization and
administration of the team are discussed in paras 49-50 below). The job
descriptions for all thirty specialists were agreed upon during
negotiations.
45.       Advisory Group.  In May 1981, the Government decided to invite
outside advice in preparing a short- and medium-term recovery program for
the economy. Bank Group staff assisted the Tanzanian authorities in
preparing appropriate terms of reference (see Annex IV) and in identifying
suitable candidates for this work. An advance of US$200,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility was approved in August 1981 to assist the
Government in finalizing such arrangements and in starting up the Group's
activities. This Advance would be re-financed under the proposed credit.
The Group began work in September 1981 and is expected to complete it by
April 1982. The Group consists of three international development
specialists and is supported by a secretariat of five economists, including
two Tanzanians.
46.       Training.  During their assignments, the internationally
recruited specialists at the Ministry of Agriculture and various
parastatals would assist the Government in assessing detailed training
requirements for Tanzanian personnel, with particular emphasis on
in-service and in country skill improvement programs. There would also be
some provision for overseas training. The Director of Training at the
Ministry would design, coordinate and advise on such activities. While the
primary focus of such training would be on general industrial and financial
management, operational expertise and agricultural economics, this
component would also finance high-priority training needs at the Ministry
of Industries, Ministry of Trade, Board of External Trade and Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs.
47.       Vehicles and Support Equipment.  Approximately US$900,000 of the
proposed credit would be used to procure vehicles and support equipment for
the specialist teams recruited under the project. This would include four
wheel drive vehicles, machine tools, calculators and accounting office
machines.
48.       Unallocated.  Ten percent of the proposed credit (US$1.2 million)
would be reserved for supplementary studies, short term consulting services
and technical assistance which have yet to be fully identified and would be
consistent with the general objectives of the project. Tentative uses of



- 19 -
Table 1: TANZANIA - THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
List of Proposed Staffl
Kilimo/Directorate of Planning      -   3 agricultural economists
1 administrative officer
Kilimo/PPMB                         -   9 financial advisers
Kilimo/TS&E                              1 agricultural economist
Tanzania Cotton Authority           -   2 mechanical engineers
1 ginnery maintenance engineer
1 oilmill maintenance engineer
2 agriculturalists (regional cotton
officers)
Tanzania Seed Company             -      3 agriculturalists (production
controller, seed production manager,
farm manager)
Coffee Authority of Tanzania        -   1 boiler engineer
1 coffee process engineer
Tanzania Sisal Authority            -   1 mechanical engineer (central
workshop manager)
1 field machinery engineer
1 process engineer
National Agricultural and Food      -   1 agricultural (production)
Corporation (NAFCO)                   economist
1 accountant
lThe assignments of such staff would last three-four years.



- 20 -
these resources include two export promotion specialists for the Board of
External Trade and an investment planning adviser for the Ministry of
Industries. Assistance for essential rehabilitation activities in other
areas would also be eligible for financing.
Organization and Implementation
49.       The project would be managed and implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs in consulta-
tion with the other beneficiaries e.g. the Coffee Authority of Tanzania and
the Tanzania Cotton Authority. The Director of Planning at the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) would be responsible for implementing the largest compo-
nent of the project (described in para. 44 above) and would delegate
responsibility for monitoring the technical aspects of the specialists'
assignments to the Coordinator of PPMB. An Administrative Officer who
would be appointed by June 30, 1982 and would have terms of reference,
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association (Sections 3.02
(a) and 3.03 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) would handle
all the administrative arrangements for the specialists and be situated in
the office of the Director of Planning. The work of the financial advisers
serving parastatal organizations under the project would be organized by
one Financial Adviser, who would be located within the Project Preparation
and Monitoring Bureau of the Ministry and report directly to the
Coordinator of PPMB. The Financial Adviser would be appointed by September
30, 1982, and would be responsible for preparing an appropriate work
program and schedule for the rest of the financial team. This work program
would be submitted to the Association for its review and comments no later
than December 31, 1982 (Section 3.03 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
50.       The details of all individual assignments under the project and
the support to be given by the responsible parastatal would be spelt out in
letters of agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and the benefi-
ciary prior to the appointment of such staff. These letters would contain
full terms of reference for the individual, including specific work objec-
tives, lines of responsibility, reporting requirements and training
targets, as well as the details of the operational support to be provided
by the employing agency. The latter would include items such as housing,
transport, office facilities and domestic travel allowances, if necessary.
The letters would normally be signed by the Principal Secretary at the
Ministry of Agriculture and the General Manager or equivalent of the paras-
tatal organization. Such letters of agreement would be submitted to the
Association for its review and comment, prior to the negotiation of draft
contracts for the individuals concerned (Section 3.04 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
51.       The work of the Advisory Group (para. 45 above) would be coordi-
nated by the Principal Secretary at the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Affairs, with the assistance of a Review Group representing the President's
and Prime Minister's offices, Treasury and other Ministries and agencies.



- 21 -
The terms of reference and the individual contracts for the Group have
already been reviewed, found satisfactory by the Association and signed by
all parties (see Annex IV).
52.       Proposals for supplementary technical assistance, training and
provision of support equipment would be reviewed by an advisory committee
which would be established by June 30, 1982; the committee would be chaired
by Treasury, and include representatives of the Ministry of Planning and
the Ministry of Agriculture. Proposals would be submitted for comment and
review to the Association's Resident Representative in Tanzania and, where
appropriate, transmitted for final approval in Washington.
53.       There would be an annual review of project activities by repre-
sentatives of the three Ministries and the Association, to assess progress
and, if necessary, revise the number and nature of the specialists still to
be recruited. If there were problems in identifying or recruiting suitable
candidates, or in ensuring a productive working environment for personnel
already recruited, these would be addressed and appropriate remedial steps
would be recommended. The first of these annual reviews would take place
no later than August 31, 1982 (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
Project Costs and Financing
54.       The total project cost would be US$15.0 million, with an estima-
ted 80% foreign exchange component.1 The approximate project budget is
provided in the Project and Credit Summary at the front of this Report.
The proposed credit would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost, or 80%
of total costs. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs and other beneficiaries would contribute the remaining
US$3.0 million or 20% of the project costs. This local contribution would
include salaries of counterpart staff, office space, secretarial services,
residential accommodation, etc. The estimated average cost per month for
the technical assistance personnel, including contingencies, would be
US$7,500 covering salary, international travel, subsistence and possible
interview costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       The Government has requested FAO to undertake recruitment of all
agricultural specialists including the financial advisers for the project
except for the three individuals serving at TANSEED, who would be recruited
by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). These and other
specialists hired under the project would be employed in accordance with
the Association's guidelines on the use of consultants. As it will be
lExcept for vehicles and support equipment, the project would be
exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- 22 -
difficult to ensure bulk orders for vehicles and equipment under the
project, owing to the phased recruitment of the personnel which these would
support, individual contracts are unlikely to attract widespread interna-
tional interest. For this reason, such contracts would be let through the
Government's own competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to
the Association. However, an effort will be made to group such procurement
into two or three main contracts for purposes of international bidding.
56.       The credit would be disbursed over five years against (a) 100% of
total costs of consultants' services, (b) 100% of the foreign exchange
costs and 80% of the local costs of training, excluding on the job
training, (c) 100% of foreign exchange costs and 80% of local costs of
materials, vehicles and equipment, and (d) 100% of the cost of refunding
the PPF Advance.
Reporting, Accounts and Audit
57.       The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs would maintain records adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the project and submit an annual report to the Association
following the review meetings referred to in para. 53 above (Section 3.06
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Not later than six months
after completion of the project, the Government would prepare and furnish
to the Association a completion report on the costs and benefits arising
from the project (Section 3.06 (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs would establish and maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures financed under their respective parts of the project and
submit audited versions of such accounts to the Association no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.       The main benefit of the proposed project would be to assist the
Government in identifying and implementing tangible measures by which to
save and generate foreign exchange in the agricultural sector. More than
half of the personnel to be financed under the credit would contribute
directly to improving the operations of three parastatal companies which
account for 50% of the country's export earnings. The other agricultural
specialists would improve the analytical and planning capabilities of the
Ministry of Agriculture and allow it to assist parastatal companies in
strengthening their financial management and control systems.  The latter
activity is intended to permit more cost-effective services to smallholders
and to limit increases in parastatal costs. The project would also finance
the preparation of a comprehensive rehabilitation program for the economy,
which could lead to additional balance of payments support for the produc-
tive sectors from the international community.
59.       There is some risk of delays in recruiting personnel under the
project, owing both to the large number of positions to be filled and the
specialized nature of certain assignments. The Government has taken



- 23 -
account of some of these delays by recruiting a small number of specialists
for the Ministry of Agriculture with bilateral financing and by reassigning
existing staff to new duties pending the arrival of additional staff.  The
Government has also asked FAO, with its considerable experience in this
field, to assume major responsibility for recruitment. The appointment of
an Administrative Officer at an early stage of the project and work already
done in defining and discussing the proposed assignments with beneficiaries
should assist in expediting implementation of the project. While the
technical specialists urgently needed in the parastatal companies would be
recruited as quickly as possible, other hiring would occur only once there
had been agreement on a realistic work program for such staff. To ensure
that the specialists are as effective as possible, the project provides for
their working as complementary teams under the coordination of an
established organization (PPMB) who would seek necessary understandings
with other employing agencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the credit are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
president
By: M. Qureshi
Attachment
January 21, 1982
Washington D.C.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            945. 1
AGRICULTURAL     498.0                                MOST RECENT           LS INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  70.0        130.0     270.0                260.0                  868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      41.0        62.0      65.0                  80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     10.2        13.3      17.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.8          6.9       10.8                 17.3                   28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       11.0        14.0      L8.0                  27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     21.0        26.0      35.0                 82. 6                  126. r
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.7        44.4      45.7                  44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                         54.3        52.5      51.2                 52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3. 1      3. 1                  2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2. 7       3.4                  2.7                    2.7
URBAN                              5. 0        6.3        8.9                  6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     47.0        47.0      48.0                  47.4                   46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.0        19.0      16.0                  19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3. 2       3. 2                 3.2                    3.2
FAlSILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..       93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (19b9-71-100)          95.0       104.0      91.0                  91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   85.0        91.0      86.0                  90. 2                  92.7
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)          44.0        49.0      47.0                  53. 0                  53. 0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        21.0      20.0                  18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     32.0        25.0      20.0                  27.7                   21. 3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0        47.0      51.0                  45.3                   50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             .        155. /Sc
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        13.0      39.0                  23.2                   31.0
URBAN                               ..        61. 0     88.0                  58.0                   66.8
RURAL                               ..         9.0      36.0                  16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       17.0                 28.9
URBAN                               *-          *-      88.0                  67.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      14.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         21020.0/d   24770.0   18160.0               30910.4                14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10440.C0]_,e  3830.0   3080.0                5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            570.0/d        ..      520.0               1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.4/c
URBAN                               ..         3.2/c
RURAL                               ..         4.5/      5. 3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
MOST RECENT            LW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 25.0        38.0      70.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                 33. 0        46.0      79.0                  74.2                     69.2
PIMALE               18.0         30.0      60.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2. 0        3.0       3.0                  10.0                     20.6
KALE                  2. 0         4.0       5.0                  13. 7                    29.2
FD4ALE                1.0          2.0       2.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  23.0           ..        .,                   6. 8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0        46.0      50.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          20.0        19.0      20.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9. 5/d     28. 1c    66.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3. 0        2.5       2.6                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0        11.0      19.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.3       0.3                   1.8
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   3.0         5.0       4.5                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5           ..       0.2                    ..                      0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     4734.5       5841.7    7342.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  37.1         36.6      34.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.3        86.0      83.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.8          5.0       6.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
T-OTAL                               44.7        43. 5     42.2                  42.2                     38.8
HALE                                 56.9        55.7      54.3                  55.1                     48.4
PEKALE                               32.8        31.5      30.3                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                     1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        33.5 
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         63.3
LOUJEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         2.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         7.8
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     147.0                 138.2
RURAL                                ..          ..     109.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN           .                    ..          ..     125.0                 107.0
1URAL                               ..           ..      74.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOlE LEVEL (PERCENT)
UDRBAN                              ..           ..       10.0
RULAL                                ..          ..      60.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/    The group averaes for each Indicator are population-eighted  rithmetic means.  Coverae of countries
aong tbe indicatorg depends on availability of data and Is not unifors.
L    Unles othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwean 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recont Estimate, betwen 1974 and 1978.
IS   1967; Id 1962; Je Registered, not all pracCicing in the country.
Most recent *stimate of GNP per caplta is for 1979. population and related *etimates have also been
revised; all other data are *s of April, 1980.
October. 1980



ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF _SOCIAL INDICATORSPa e                                                                                    3    o      6
Hae:Although the dote use drees  from  sItatue  general-ly Judged the east authorinative and reliable, it should also be noted that theY maY not be inte--
astintoLly coparable bencuam  of the lack nf standardized defiettiets and onOept. used by doff-eret contie   in nletieg the data.  The data are,tt-
theleen, useful no desoihe urders of magnitude, isdicatc treds. and oharat-tlo. tetti  II7uc dfe--obntn                       . hsssnutr-ia..
The ref ertue groups an  (1) the t-n   un-y group uf the s-bj- ect .onery cud (2) 00000cry group cith nnohet highe- avrr9g tio.ee the  the coutry group
uf thesbject n--Iry          ..a..p for "CapItal Surplas Oil nprrs  group where  'iddl. Is-coe North Afrtc- od Mofdla ta-t"  Is chosen hecoue uf etonger
aui-utua   dfiefti).  It the  _eferetce gro-p dtet  the aoae  are  .puylotlu  -elghted arithoetic   ectOut tech indi-otu  and eh-e  only ehee at
Ocoot h-If of the ca-triea in a group has dat  for that IndIcato.-  Si-oo  thauerg  of --toien  -nog the ledac-trs depends ce she  -vaiability of
dusa and is ntt  -ulrm    atau- east he etasslsd is, testing  -urrages ef one iditoator to soothe.   Theso an-rge  are culy useful in n-pseteg she osle
of one Sodlo-er t-   tIne aezg the  o .e.try and ref-eotn    groups.
LAND0 AREA (th..ga   q.so.                                                                     fa ulainbt hsna                  I   t...lati . dirdegl  caere et pesasaciag phy-
Ioa  as    ufso  ara-oprising land urea asd isl1ad eaters.                              sJoias   qusltf ted ftrue a madiclsho           unvrIylvl
Agiutrl- isiaeo   ghuntlaasdtnnuiyu   eesel                                            aueinlthrigPro   - PoPulati-t dinided by aeber of ptsctioisg
So n Ps,ponu-, maket and hirthet gordea  ur tt lie fallow; 1900 data,                 male asd f.seal  graduate  --n, practical nooses, and ..ssisnt  asse..
Pssltios per            ' os ited  b total..ura.p-and card- Paasin(a
0hp  It APIA (SI)-GtP par cayito esiaeIt curren  maket prlrs-, nal-                       ace,sdntl   iie  b   hi                    ptiesue             h.. opitel bed
a                    ru~~~olated bysn   curesi        t ehud an World lath Atlas (1977-79 hasis); I9hO,             s-ilsble in public and private gecrul sad epeoili-ed  hspktsl and re-
1970,-ad  ISl9Odota                                                                            hbsilitsta.tts tceter.   espltuls ore esaloeaspeemastly staffed
11fb1  COIISfPIO  PdCAITA-  oaal  ussmpicsnOcoseetulenrgy(tal            by at leaser sn  physictas.  fstshlishmeets pon-tdiagpretpalycutedim
ENERGY  ONSUMPLON PE  CAPIT. - A .. I -- Pti.. o   --gy  o.tare arIo nldd.  Rural hospinnis, br--, inPlude bssltb and medie1
aod ilgelIIs, petrleu-,  atrlgee and lydro-, rool-a  mad gentharnu  els-                       tearer  Itt pesmnctly Itaf fed hy s phystiaion (bat by a mediesl.. es-ltast
tric ity) is lttlgte  of cua1  qoivaleat yet c..pita; 1960, 1970, and 1978                    nus,ideite, etc.) cUch rffer in-patieat ......datiu   and preside
a.t..                                                                  l~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iidted tsege of esddoal farilitie'.  far etatiatial parpecee ac-hesbepi-
POPULATION ADS  fITLO _   STATISTICS                                                             tals include WHO. princpal ge..eral osd spetalised hspitmls,  .An  -ea
hospitals leca  c-  -ur   bospunala and medical -an  mtity teeers
Total Fpaattun, lied-feat (aillion -.  oa  f JulY 1; 1960. 1970, and 1978                    Adalasl.se os- Oe-ita1 Sad - Tutal ounber of admissions t.oOr distbstgeo
data                                                                                        ftra  bstt    divaded by the sanber of beds.
Orasfrua-      u  Rpretu   ool-ftlo of urban to nosal pepulati.o;
diffeesat dlutcsof -rb.n  re- may affect c-parbhlty of dots                              OSN
anog o_uot i-n; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dss.                                                 Avertag lies uf gusehold (pronsprhuehl)-ata,ahs sdFtl
Population ProecloaA hoe d nuaist.                                                                                     fagopa   niiul   h   hr   iigqetr
Paeuatlr  is  ear  010- Cunt puuetu    rjsctieas ars ha...d to 1990                  and therml   tsal., A, hoade  or tludgeedma  hora  sue be lini            de qrtr
tutaL ?pnplutie- by age and sea sad their  _atality and fertility rtes,.                  the houshold for  tnctisti-I purpeses.
Projetion p-retet   for  -tcelgty cter. -eptise o %thra  leel   nsnbAeog   an                             of euotn . e...tne,uha,adrua       naaeam
lu ifespraca    ir   ecsg                    pt   oafs'  prcpte  nu                      her af yer.un. pt t.runs,  .1 l  urbaa, and rura  ucrupledcauventie...l
laai-   ndPesl  lIeepstny  saiisn   t 771 yeas.Jhe Pues-                                  dulag,rpetoy. Olhnsncdsu-enanttutrsad
fertility a...ncdiog to isomr leVa Iand past f ally pleanlg poturaee                    Acestofe trita  (pocc..t of iw-llial-toa.nhnadrul-
tach oaun-y le thee astee   n  of 'he.e aise oumbi..ttens of entait                       foos       otaldeln       st    luttt    n  itgqatr   spretg
and ferility  tends fu  PtietieO  PtPOh555:-    -t   .                              of tura1, urar, o-d cora  deelliugsespccniv-ly.
thehioh tte  s --ua  to the death rate, on  alsu. the age s .trucur  i-    EDUCATION
coia c.o..ta.t.  Thio a Is ablvd snIp after frtlility rtnta dI'liut tu                  Adjostrd forcllaot Oatias
the replaresa  level- of -eit ne  repeoduetia  rate, ohm. ta- gneain                      Prmr  shu    total, maltaud female   Gross tutal, male sed femal
of maa  replaus  Itself ently.  The statinnuty populatiu    ieru                             nolmn  o l  age  at the pelmary leve  as peccestages of r. eapcls
sntimatId on the bais uf thn pro(scted oaatraisof the pupuIiotln                            pIaysho-g    pupltin;crlyicudscldasgdhl
Is  he yea  2000, -ud the rare of dsolfns of fertility rtse to replace                     yearny .hutuine.u.1fenp stnr   eiayeuein   u
smat level.                                                         countrien wIth univarnal edutntiunsar-llmtht-may....ed 100 perces t
ToeraraiomarY ptls    Os r-nbed - Th. ye-  nhnnoatnayppltu                                   iu   urppl  art halos urhc h                  ffiufal -ch-oIae
siss has hen teehed.                                                                       ecnaychl-to l.maadfmle-Computed a  abuse; ..eccudary
Per as. ha. - Kld-year pupulats.cs par a4anr  kilemeter (1D0 heotareal of                     _dcroroooot leas  furyec  o pprovdpmayinrti;
nosly nO IZ tn 17 years nf age; -rr-p-sde-c .. c .oure  are ge-rlly
Pe  o   e   gtl-tultra1 loud - Cuepated as shove forarelt lla                           -ouluded
only.                                                  -           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIctE ma cor,.lmot (procu   ecdary) -    atica..l isstltnalua
Pupuatio Ae Srucurefeeneit) - Childe   (0l..r.              urlgee(uatuetcncl.tdeua,o  reher pru a  shich uptat  indepso-
64 yar),ad retired (9065yare and over) as peroeeages nf eid-year P.P-                          dntlyura  depart.'eats ni sut-daryirt tu.
lu-lon; 1990, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                          Pyitshrai      odoy   a   eodr    Tnto1 stodeots ee-Iled fa.
LPeelso   esbDt  pret      sa  - OA-..I grash rates of total mid-                                prImar  and secuada-y Iev-o dIvided by umab-r  of tesuher- It the
yast pyulstiae for1950-9, 196970, ad 1970-78.                                       c_-respundtng le-1..
PeIP,a,,o, Oroeh0DRe (fareoe).  urhaab   - An-Ia 9-eeh -are. of urhan  epup-                   Adul  Ieac   aeCyoan  - Linetransdalts  (ante to read ard erfto)
lutiu.s for I950-60, 1960-71 s, od 1970-789..oIapercentane tf totsl edolt  oparu aged 11 years and soar.
Crude Blceb hateP fet a..ss.nd) .- &-n-a  live hirthe Per thoussad of  did-y-n
pupulutias;1990, 1970, and 19078 data..C DO 51Tf
Crude leashoDate (p-c rhosand) - Ao,aual deethe per thos..ed of aid-year                   _NUPsaesrCr  Oe  haadpaaa o)-Passgrcr  cmrs   ao
.prplatias; 1960, 1970, sod 1908 data.cansaiglsnhuibtprun olde P                                                                                   nhalastes  heeseeso
Oras Perouonus  tr-vs-gs sanh- of daughters a o                ill hea  Sn              military-- vehicles... I,   -...
hs,1r eaca  rIpcIod-tfr- pariad if she capeite.o.. preseet age-ep-Mf  fec-                 Radi ictetoer  Aprtoaadorltir                      l 1  types of t-etelves  fu  tadt
ni ty  mass  aaly Pfi--yar.. averges eadiag ia 19ff, 1970, aid 1977.                      bracss5gerlpuicertoan ofouain;nldeus-
Family Planasg"oepera  ,a,ua  (th -asds) - dos..aI nnber of accptors                           ce-ai_tueloto   It- cautnies pnd thysas abe rf gitratosu  radio  e
of bdrth-cog..a-  derlees under a-pie-  of eatiusa  tasily pa..niog progrmua-,nfc;dn  frrce   er   a   o  h   rprhesaees
Pall0    I" P ~a-ats (os-enet of  atrird ymn  - Foeranagr of mareld                            ..uutiesf.t abolishe       -lsnis.t  .      .    .    e...b.i. 
ecea  of  bildbeacag ao fl-hf years) whoI ba nhib-totrol devices so                V ReceIvers (err thoosnd Ipo..latiun) -TV recerer  far br-dc-- tu
all maccla  unses iu  ame age gtup.                                  negsr. -1pblit per theuad   tulahr;tclunaaicne  TV eseelners
POOD 019D NUTRITIiON                                                                             lccuur ies d 0e yeats che. regiseal    of TV' aef a-a  ie    feet.
SNasoarCrulto  (s h....aad p..pulationO - Sh-n  the averge tite.a-
lade ofFuo 7rdstionpso  oola (99971s007- luer  f pr oplt  auual        tics of "daIly genera  ftrtest useepaper "' defitInd aseperiodic   psb"
rodutine  f allfand  nemn ities.  Podan_    estIndes sedg      dfe  ad             lcto   donted primarily to rsc.rdiag 9sana  noes   Itj _strsdered
is on caledar Year hani.  Cosdie   oncpi_ary gan. (e.g.                                                ileneatseanst   .. tf-ti...   .
Isesad uP sagar) which ar  edible ead -stain   ttcisnts (of,. coffee and                   tc he   diyh   nypssa   r    fou   ti.es a eh..                        b-o
te  ae _  ncludod).  Aggregate produrtion ef each ruu..rty is base d00                       stih..s n-d daing the year, includiegadmissi... to driv-as ti-ea
uatieel a-raS. pr-dcer prlic   eras;1961-f5, 1970, and 1978 dat.
Per carite sapely of oalsriea (peroeet ef renuleansats)  ~~~~-Copare  ftre  eud mahile unte
enery sqinslst o  setfoo  eupllesevaiablein tuntY pe  naplta          LAOR P liii
Per day.  hAh lable  -applira cup,ise dum..atii prudurries, impue  les.ua..b.                          un  (rh..ade) - tcuiot  air   esns    sld
unots, and chasge  is stuck,  Net supplfIes. esolds soima  feed, se.                    aedfreanaeplyedbsetaighuele,eaet.st
qaotitise  ne.d in fond prt-e...lag, and Iu.s.. is distoobutlon.  Requir-                 leiorieetocalcso ttre  arc nrd. comparable;  1990, 1971 and
sen t  -ver  astimated by PAO hear d on phyiolagir-l  eeda f- n-t-I anti-                 1973dat.i -    . to.            ....           oto,p b.;10   97.d
olsty and health  -naiderieg mnisonmilteersue,body  eights ,, ag                         els7 (prcn)     fmlelae  force sa percen ta.geuf toaI                aargce
ond sea distribtira of populasiot, and olliomig 10 p-erat fo   at   5                  Aerutt  pret  -Lbrfrei t_ria. fretry btnin  andf.o
household level; 1991-90, 1970, and 1977 date,                                            fishing us pecc..eotge of total labs  fcs-; 1960, 1970'and 1978 data.
Per ocita  srelpof ecrede   scas etcday)    Pcaei  cotest  f pa  capita  lausvfern L - b-s fuste in niniug, coart                 -o,msfattols
-  nos spply a  food pr day.Den suply nf  und isdsflnedas shoe,  he-                          an  el-ecirity, eater and gs  as pereta..tge uf tsa1 labor force; 1960,
qoiteesto fut all -anttis  established by USDA provide for  1ila                           97f sedl 179 daaa.
olloasc  of 60 gram  of total protein per day and 00 gas-  af all ssd                   Psti.olptln. DRe (pecet.. ) - total, male, sri in-lo-rar1tiip-ilos   -t
poa   rues   f ehlcl 10 grams should be animal protel.  Them  stad                snrt   ae   r   uptda   do,ml,adfml   ao   uca
ords ar   -w  than those of 75 grams of total proteis sad 23 9-l                  ~        prenae of oiit   total, mal  an  feal  pouaion . of-I albagsraeri
unSea  peoeis a  an  nssu5  Sonthe norld, p-uPos..d by tAO io abe Third          1960  1900  and. oftt1195dt.  Thdase ar  p.'spar.tir,of aal_ge rates efeto
WadPun  Sa   Ly 9609   1970 sod 1977 date..                                                                                          IL'.r...   flti
KPercpt   re smrlpfo    nma  e   ae-Protein  supply of goad de-                              a aeueroueu   beyplen.adln   te    rn.a8e   si
rined fran anImal  end pulses in grame pe  day; 19h1-65, 1.970 sad 19071 Oats,            maesae    oe         tluma  sore.t-of p.ti             dr1    .   6.
ugs graup 1-1 ymars,    ehildoes is this ag  greup;  at  -at devlopiseog        to tha tuta1 laborfre
trrda data deetrad 7 ro  life  tables; 1960, 1970 sad 197P dasa.                        INCOME DISTRIBUTION
L10 s a-stsnco aBtti(ser)              -Avrge s-ber of Yasra of life  -eminlag                 S per-at, richear 2f perc...s, porcast 27 pecs,ad p                    4cstA  pecoIt
at birth; 1960, 1970 sL1979 dens                                                             ofIsehls
IlaP st 41PotAlt   ae(ettosn) - -Iaa   deaths of iaf ante usdts ro  Ytst    POVERTY TARGET GROPSly
Aof.ag..  e  thssn    line,irths                                                            Estmatedhb.oate F--r   Income level 0U$fe  st)-ubnad rural -
ArNast   af-     aeb(ets afenVte_- us.aba an  crt                                             Absolate pone..    inoelvlistatsue  ee   eoRwihaeaMal.7
ea.terspl  (Imodstensed  -fr9ac  easses at untreated bus anuotaminaned                       affrdate ...IYI            i    I
ese hsu  as that fran pr-neoted b.herbles,  Priags, and  sailsey wells) ma            Dtiated helani-o PunsenyIne  s l(5   e Lc-I CM) -  chsA andes
pene..t.age  nI ftheh epcIvepp             is . I  as urban area a pbliln                    trlelteporty innrlvli  oetIdoint.g)                                 ere pt
fsnsf r_t       opotbend rin ethnIfImtesfrma  oe  myhe                                       pronliade thcInry    rholve   s  eludfuete  ua
coesiderd as beng siabi  rnasonhle acos   of tht house  Dof  rural areas     leve  with adj.ustuet for hiue- nust uf living In  -rbanaes
reasonable aces-sld imply that rhe h..seeie .    nobrmothhunud                            Dsa.tdP ulto    IoAacceP serneeLvlIer st-uha
ds non bans    spend adiPp-utrisnmne Pact of the day In fetchIng the                          n  ua       ecn   fpplto    uba   n   aa)wose"bouepo"
family' ester.. neds,
rural -Sober of people fil,  sa, an   ualsee   yatt
dpnaasp-trcntmgSs ef.thaitr-tepee isepplsia.                rE-ra due-                                               tnastad lactl Oats  iliviia
pns  may I  n- ad  the  `a1lennio  sad dispesl wIith or nisheut trsE.tonseit dAslysie and PrJojetiuss Depar~tmn
of he-a  --crta end man-tsastet by wate-horns system   or the ace ef                                                                           tb-18
pie prIies. sad stlariasla_           os



- 27 -
Population          17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                                           ANNEX  I
GNP Per Capita:  Us$270 (1979)                                                                                                        Page  4  of  6
TANZA2iIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORSPŽ/
Amount
(million US$ at                                           Annual Growth Rates (,1)
Indicator                 current prices)                          Actual                     a/                       Projected
1979           1976      1977       1978      1979       1980-    1981        1982      1983       198 _  1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic productd/ e/             4,564.3            6.7        4.7       5.4        3.9      -1.5        3.7       3.6        3.6        3.6       3.6
Agriculture                           2,210.2            9.8        7.5       7.4       8.0       -6.1        4.2       3.6        3.6       3.6        3,6
Industry                                549.0            0.9       3.1       -2.2       3.1          -       3.0        4.0       4.0        4,0        4.0
Services                              1,374.8            3.4       5.5        6.5       3.4        4.0       3.4        3.4       3.4        3.4        3.,
Consumption                             4,115.8            1.6       12.3      14.6       -3.4       1.7        4.6       1.9        3.2       3,1        3.2
Gross investment                           958.6          11.5        2.1       3.8       10.9      -6.2        3.6       3.6        3.6        3.6       3.'
Exports of GNFS                            647.9          16.8    -22.8        -2.4       -2.8      -9.6        1.7       7.9        5.2        5.2
Imports of GNFS                         1,158.0            0.5        4.4      34.9     -19.2        1.S       -2.9      -1.3        2.,       2.6
Gross national savings                     468.0          64.5       -6.8     -58.0       99.4     -16.9     -23.9       79.0        8.6       9,7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1978 = 100)                                 77.2      92.4      100.0     108.5      124.8    140.4       154.4     168.3      131.8      134.5
Exchange rate (T.Sh. per US$)                              8.4        8.3       7.7        8.3       8.2        8.2       8.2        8.2       S.2        8.2
Share of GDP at Market Prices (7.)                    Average Annual Increase (%)
_     at current pri-ses)'               _             1atonstant_1978_prices)
1970      1975       1980      1985       1990      1970-75      1975-80      1980-55      !385-30
Gross domestic producte                                  100.0     103.0      130.3    100.0    100.0            4.9          4.1          3.6
Agriculture                                       '     36.9      36.9       47.5      47.8       47.9         2.1         5.8          3.7
Industry                                                15.5      14.5       11.9      12.0       12.3         3.7         0.7          392
Services                                                37.2      37.8       31.1      30.8       30.6         6.S         4 6          3.4          3,
Consut?tion                                               81.9      91.7       90.3       88.2      86.4         5.9          6 0                       313
Gross investment                                          22.5      21.1       20.0       18.0      18.0         0.2          4.6           .l6
Expor1:s SNIS                                            -24.0    -18.2    -12.1    -13.9    -15.2              -5.3         -6.2          5.3
Imports GNFS                                              28.4      31.0       22.5      20.2       19.7        -3.8         4.2           1.1
Gross national savings                                    18.3       7.8        9.9      11.6       13.5       -2.4         -3.6          5.7
As 7. of GDP
PBL,IC FINA14C0                                                       1970     1975     1979
Curraac.  s.:vl;                                                   17.5      20.2     13.5
Current expendi-ires                                               16.2      20.2     23.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          1.3         -    -5.4
Capital expenditire                                                 5.3      11.6     12.7
Forei,n financing                                                   2.0       5.4      6.7
1970-75     1975-80      1980-85      1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (7)                                       4.7          4.2          3.6          3.6
GNP per capita growth rate IL)                            1.3          0.8          0.2          0.2
ICOR P                                                    5.0          5.5          5.1         5.1
Marginal savings rate                                    -0.1         -0.1          0.1          0.2
Import elasticity                                        -0.8          1.0          0.3          0.8
a!  Estimate
b/  Apart from trade projectiors, which include small but offsete ing amounts of Zanzibar trade, all data in ti is table are fcr Main'arsc
Tanzania only.
c/  Projected years at constant prices.
d!  At market price; components are expressed at factor cost an. will not add due to exclusion of net indire t taxes and subsidies.
ea   Historical tren.  from 1973 to 1979 is based on official estiLates, which include subsistence production g outh rate of S.6%  ser
annum.  We esti- ate that a more realistic growth rate for sui,sistence production over this period would b! nearer 4% per a-nnum,
reducing agricu tural growth to 3.4% per annum and GDP growt, to 3.6% per annum.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Population    :  17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                                 Page  5  of  6
GNP Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)
TANZANIA - EXTERNAL TRADE -/
Amount                                            Annual Growth Rates (%)
Indicator            (million US$ at                                       (at constant 1978 Prices)
current prices)                        Actual                    a                     Projected
1979           1976      1977      1978      1979      1980-/   1981       1982     1983      1984      1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             543.6            7.8    -19.4       -6.5       6.1    -7.8        2.1       8.5       5.3       5.3       5.3
Major primary products       339.5             9.5    -20.1       -9.7      -0.1    -4.8        3.0       8.8       4.1      4.1       4.1
Others                       204.1             3.3    -18.1        2.7      21.5   -14.0          -       8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0
Merchandise imports           1,099.6          -16.4       7.7      36.8     -18.8      1.0      -3.4      -1.5       2.8       2.8       2.9
Foodgrains                    19.3           -65.2      23.3    -14.7    -42.4   334.0         -3.0    -47.5          -         -         -
Petroleum                    171.7            11.0    -11.5       12.8      -8.9      2.1      -7.9       5.0       3.1      3.3       3.4
Machinery and equipment    515.0             -15.2      25.1      55.1    -10.0    -7.6        -5.4       2.9       2.9       2.9       2 .9
Others                       393.6           -13.9       0.7      33.9    -28.9    -7.6         0.7       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
PRICES
Export price index                              77.4    106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8    136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price index                              81.1      89.5    100.0    118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    204.4    220.9
Terms of trade index                            95.4    119.4    100.0        90.4    88.3       74.9      71.4      72.2      73.1     74.0
Composition cf Merchandise Trade (7.)                  Average Annual Increase(%.)
(at cufireiif prices)                         (at constant 1978 prices)
1970     1975      1980      1985      1990      1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           -4.5        -5.2         5.6         5.5
Major primary  roducts                        59.2      66.3      69.2      67.6      63.5        0.2        -6.9         5.0         4.1
Others                                        40.8      33.7      30.8      32.4      36.5      -12.9        -1.0         6.8         8.0
Imports                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0            1.8         2.6         0.9         3.0
Foodgrains                                     2.5      15.3       9.2       4.5       3.9       44.8        -5.8       -14.1           -
Petroleum                                      8.5      11.9      12.7      13.1      13.7        4.8           -         2.0         3.9
Machinery and  quipment                       35.2      30.8      41.2      38.8      36.9        0.7        11.1         1.7         2.9
Others                                        53.8      42.0      36.9      43.6      45.5       -1.7        -3.3         2.7         3.1
Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Countriet (7)    Developing Countries (h)    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970    1975    1978          1970    1975    1978                 L970    1975    1978
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                       54.0    48.2    6t.0           40.0    43.3    23.2                 0.6      0.4      0.7
Imports                                       57.9    59.7    74.2           27.3    25.1    17.9                 1.2      3.2      0.8
a/ Estimate
S/ Data are for al Tanzania (Mainland and Zanzibar)



- 29 -
Population    :  17.5'million (mid-1979)                                                                                                           '        T:   I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 270 million (1979)                                                                                                            g e o f   6
TANZ2ANIA - BAlANCE OF PAYS. EXTAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US at current prices)
Indicator                               ~~~~Actual                         -/                             ProJeCLed
Indicator                    1970        1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       i984       1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAY0NTS
Export of goods and services                 .350.4    647.2      669.6      631.2      705.6      740.6      741.8     851.1      979.2   1,123.7   1,286.1   2,289.9
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.             259.3      492.4      547.7      479.2     543.5      572.7      558.2      643.2      744.8      860.4      991.8   1,796.3
Imports of goods and services               377.9      729.6      853.4   1,271.1   1,224.3   1,452.7   1,596.5   1,756.3   1,964.2   2,182.8   2,423.7   3,900.7
of which: Maechandise c.i.f.              318.4      630.5      750.3   1,146.5   1,099.6   1,299.1   1,412.9   1,549.1   1,732.6   1,932.3   2,149.2   3,488.1
Net transfem-                                 5.6      -16.4       11.9       19.2       28.1       20.0       21.6      23.3       25.2       27.2       29.4       43.2
Current account balance                     -21.9      -98.8    -171.9    -620.7    -490.6    -692.1    -833.1    -881.9    -959.7  -1,031.9  -1,108.2  -1,567.6
Official grant receipts                       6.2      119.0      135.0      214.1      321.4      380.9     410.4      443.2      478.7      517.0      558.3      820.4
M & LT loan7 (nat)                           38.1       97.1      162.3      151.1      255.8      329.3      392.7     408.7      451.0      484.9      569.8      772.2
Official-                                  41.2      107,1      168.0      158.1     162.4      196.1      341.9      377.5      439.8      476.6      577.9      775.9
Private                                    -3.1      -10.0       -5.7       -7.0      93.4      133.1       50.9       31.2       11.3        8.3       -8.1       -3.6
Other capital                               -29.8      -67.7       10.5      -14.6       -4.7        2.9       50.0      50.0       50.0           -     -36.0
Change in reserves (--increase)               7.4      -49.6    -135.9       270.1      -81.9      -20.0     -20.0      -20.0      -23.0      -20.0      -20.0      -2i.0
International reserves                      107.5      164.4      300.3       30.2      112.1     132.1       152.1     172.1      192.1      212.1      232.1      357.1
Reserves as months imports                    3.4        2:7        4.2        0.3        1.1        1.1        1.1        1.2        1.2       1.2        1.2        1.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursementa                          60.5      238.2      326.3      382.5      596.9      763.8
Official grants                             6.2      119.0      135.0      214.1     321.4      380.0
Conces7ional loans                         40.4       9316      149.5      112.6     103.8      179.7
DAC-                                     20.1       5800       73.7      64.1       33.2       33.1
OPEC                                        -        1.0        6.5        1.2        1.2      35.5
IDA                                       9.4       29.0      39.3       24.4       39.0       49.4
Other                                    10.9        5.6k      30.0      22.9       30.4       61.6
Non-concessional loans                     13.9       25.6       41.8       63.4      171.7      204.1
Official export credits                     -        7.3          -      21.7       32.1        6.8
IBRD                                      4.8       17.1      30.4       31.3       36.6       31.8
Other multilateral                          -          -        3.1        7.6       5.3       14.4
Private                                   9.1        1.2        8.3        2.8      97.7      151.O
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            322.7   1,026.3   1,218.6   1,260.1   1,422.0   1,751.3
Official                                193.4      965.7   1,158.5   1,201.4   1,266.6   1,462.7
Private                                 129.3       60.6      80.1       58.7      155.4      288.5
Undisbursed debt                          408.4      536.6      560.4      617.5     699.6      679.7
Debt service
Total service payments                    -26.3      -41.7      -51.2      -49.6      -49.7     -98.2
Interest                                -10.1      -19.5     -22.3      -24.7      -30.0      -43.7
Payments as X exports                       7.5        6.4        7.6        7.9        7.1      13.3
Average interest rate on new loans(%)         1.6        2.6        3.1        2.6        5.5        4.5
Official                                    1.5        2.3        3.1        2.6       4.0
Private                                     7.0        8.3        9.3        ..        8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)        38.8       38.0       34.7       35.4       21.1       27.3
Official                                   39.7       39.9       34.7      35.4       27.0
Private                                     7.2        5.0       14.8       ..         9.7
As X of Debt OutstandirU
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                          28.4
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                         62.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                          3.0
a/ Estimate
h/ Excludes official grant receipts.
c/ Includes financing of projected gap on IDA terms.



- 30-                                        ANNEX  II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower            Purpose                    Bank'   TW       IDA'  Undisbursed
Six loans and seventeen credits fully disbursed                86.20           136.24
454-TA  1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                                17.50    4.46
1014-TA  1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                            21.00                     0.88
495-TA  1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                     8.50    0.01
507-TA  1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                                   10.20    1.62
508-TA  1974  Tanzania  Rural Development (Kigoma )                           10.00    0.87
580-TA  1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                                10.00    5.27
1128-TA  1975  Tanzania  Textile                              15.00                     0.75
1172-TA  1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank           15.00                     0.72
601-TA  1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                                   6.00    1.47
606-TA  1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                               18.00    7.07
607-TA  1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                       11.00    5.39
1306T-TA  1976  Tanzania  Power                                        30.00             0.01
1307-TA  1976  Tanzania  Forestry                              7.00                     1.56
652-TA  1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                             9.00    6.25
658-TA  1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                    8.00    0.96
1354-TA  1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                   15.00                     4.85
1385T-TA  1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                  11.50             1.69
1386-TA  1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex          11.50                     1.26
703-TA  1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                           7.20      4.97
732-TA  1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                            12.00    8.54
743-TA  1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                             15.00    9.72
1498-TA  1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank           15.00                     1.79
801-TA  1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                     27.50    8.12
802-TA  1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                     14.00   11.35
803-TA  1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                       12.00      7.53
1607-TA  1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                     25.00                    24.60
833-TA  1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                     20.00   14.49
860-TA  1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                               14.00   12.82
861-TA  1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                      12.00   11.78
875-TA  1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                               30.00   15.41
1650-TA  1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper               30.00                    29.52
876-TA  1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                        20.50   20.42
1754-TA  1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11.00                      5.64
1750-TA  1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank           25.00                    18.18
S-24-TA  1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port Engineering                        2.50    1.43
987-TA  1980  Tanzania  Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                             10.00   10.00
1007-TA  1980  Tanzania  Pyrethrum                                            10.00    9.89
1015-TA  1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage & Milling                              43.00   43.00
1037-TA  1980  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                      14.00   13.98
S-27-TA  1980  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Petroleum                                30.00    6.33
1056-TA  1981  Tanzania  Seventh Education                                    25.00   24.99
1060-TA2 1981  Tanzania  Second Technical Assistance                          11.00   10.79
1070-TA2 1981  Tanzania  Coconut Pilot                                         6.80    6.65
1133-TA2 1981  Tanzania  Export Rehabilitation Program                        50.00   45.01
Total                                                       276.70  41.50  630.94
of which has been repaid                                   17.64    -       9.36
Total now outstanding                                     259.06  41.50  621.58
Amount sold                                 .09
of which has been repaid                 .09
Total now held by Bank and IDAl                             254.06  41.50  621.58
Total undisbursed                                            89.75   1.70  330.59   422.04
1 Net of exchange adjustments.
2 Sixth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR's.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
(US$ million)
Loan                                             Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower       Purpose                  Bank'   Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                             135.80
638-EA  1969    EAHC         Harbours                 35.00        0.52
865-EA  1972    EAHC         Harbours                 26.50        0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications       32.50        0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB         Development Finance      15.00        3.27
Total                                       244.80        4.42
of which has been repaid                   68.64
Total now outstanding                       176.16
Amount sold                  24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36             0.00
Total now held by Banka                    176.16
Total undisbursed                             4.42         4.42
'Net of exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1
(As of September 30, 1981)
There are currently 41 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project management has maintained good implementation progress
despite the problems caused by shortages of fuel and spare parts which have
handicapped the mechanization unit and road equipment operation. Shortage
of building materials is also delaying completion of housing and storage
facilities. Construction of roads, bridges and culverts are proceeding
well while grading and graveling have slowed down due to the fuel problem.
Cotton production has increased over the previous season despite the late
rain which seriously reduced the maize crop. In spite of these encouraging
production results, future cotton production could be seriously affected by
marketing problems. The severe shortages of spare parts and fuel has
brought transport, ginning and oil crushing operation to a virtual stand-
still. TCA has requested the Government for TSh 110.5 million to rehabili-
tate the ginneries, the oil mills and their transportation fleet.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of all five factories and ancillary facilities has
been completed and processing plan and machinery has been delivered. How-
ever, the project continues to experience difficulties in recruitment of
staff and face problems arising from a sharp decline in the marketed
production of raw nuts. The producer price has been recently increased and
the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) is considering the introduction of additio-
nal incentive and tree-planing schemes for farmers, but these measures are
not likely to have a significant impact for several years. As a result,
the completed cashewnut factories are expected to operate well below capa-
city for a number of years.
lThese notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this context, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
The project has shown significant improvement in procurement, and
maintained a satisfactory execution of physical infrastructure work.
Increased coordination 'etween the various project related agencies and
parastatals at regional level has improved project management. Staff turn-
over has decreased and key staff are largely in place. The coffee rehabi-
litation and expansion program is proceeding well and there has been
further increase in the production of beans and cotton. However, official
maize production figures have dropped, due mainly to increased importance
of parallel markets as well as increased movement into other more remunera-
tive crops such as beans, pigeon peas, etc. Because fertilizer trials on
soil failed to produce conclusive results, emphasis is now being shifted to
cultivation methods, spacing, seed varieties, etc., from which useful
results could be expected in the short term.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project continues to progress on all fronts at a very slow
pace. There has been a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma
Commercial Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the
coastal centers and a postponement of procurement of lake transport facili-
ties (pending adequate fish catches on Lake Tanganyika).  However, engines
for the coastal vessels have been received and are being assembled for
installation. Loans to five villages have been approved by TRDB under the
Ujamaa Village Program. Agreement has been reached with the Crown Agents
of the U.K. for the provision of technical assistance staff.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of Janury 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project has been redesigned in order to intensify project
activities during a three-year extension period from July 1979 to June
1982; however, this redesign has had little impact on the production of
food crops because of drought conditions. Inadequate research, extension
and prices have also discouraged proper crop husbandry. Construction of
staff houses and village store is delayed due to shortage of building
materials.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
The project has continued to show overall improvement in its
implementation. Milk production, technical parameters and budgeting



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
control have improved, and production cost has been reduced. The large
price increase in July 1980 was responsible in great part for the improved
financial position of the dairies. The closing date has been postponed to
March 31, 1983 to permit the project to reach its targetted objectives.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The Afforestation Program continues to be ahead of schedule
although land preparation and planting has been less satisfactory.
Construction and maintenance have been well behind schedule mainly due to
shortages of cement, vehicle spare parts and other building materials.
Training program for junior field staff is underway and will be extended to
senior grades.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Installation of the new processing line has been completed and is
capable of producing good quality tobacco. Construction of roads, fencing,
drainage and maintenance workshop has been delayed mainly due to non-avail-
ability of construction material. Construction of TTPC office block has
been dropped and TTPC head office staff will now move into TAT office
building. Similarly, a separate building to accommodate maintenance faci-
lities will not be constructed and one of the godowns at Morogoro will be
used to house these facilities. Phase IB construction program at Kurasini
has also been scaled down and will now consist of railway siding, drainage,
gatehouse, changing room and petrol station. These changes have been
introduced in view of the increased costs and in order to provide funds for
spare parts and conversion of furnace to coal firing. The project faces a
serious problem caused by the continued low tobacco production which might
have serious effects on project return and TAT's financial position. In
order to encourage tobacco producers, the average tobacco price was again
raised last year.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Creditl of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation has slowed down considerably as a result
of severe and continuing shortages of construction materials and diesel
fuel. These shortages have affected all components, except land-use plan-
ning which is proceeding satisfactorily. The roads and water supply
programs have been the worst affected and are also suffering from shortages
lCredit No. 703-5-TA (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangements; Credit no. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
of technical staff. The agricultural trials and production program, too,
appears to have been disrupted by the recent drought. Project management
is attempting to resolve the materials shortages by increasing the use of
local substitutes. However, overall progres in institution-building is
likely to remain slow.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactority. Factory
construction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However,
the appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at
existing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties.  As with the
First Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full
capacity are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979,
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Deve-
lopment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable
candidates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant
and advertisement of the other two have been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project,
US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Good progress has continued in the technical aspects of shallow
well contruction, forestry development, pasture trials at Malya Range Mana-
gement Station, and cassava variety trials at Ukiriguru.  However, agricul-
tural extension and training has been poor. This problem has affected the
performance of Crop Verification Trials; only 20% of the trial target were
laid down and the results were poor.  Another reason for the poor results
of the trial program has been lack of coordination with Ukiriguru Research
Station. The post of Extension and Training Specialist, as well as a
number of positions at area supervisor level, remain vacant. Proposals for
strengthening the Ukiriguru Research Station as a training center to
develop a strong, field-oriented extension service have been Drepared, and
more emphasis would be placed on the problem of soil erosion and soil
conservation.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Effective-
ness Date - May 18, 1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This credit became effective on May 18, 1981.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981: Closing Date - December 31, 1985
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981 and progress on
physical implementation has been satisfactory. However, although the
Government has agreed to assume TSh. 18.0 million of TPB's overdraft, poor
sales of pyrethrum and high administrative cost continues to weaken the
Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board-s financial position. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on April 27, 1981. The project got
off to a slow start due to delays in appointing the General Manager and the
Chief Engineer, but is now expeced to gain momentum. Some start has been
made in the tea nursery and fuelwood planting. The Ukalawa factory site
has been selected and tender documents should be issued shortly. Supplier
bids for the factory machinery have also been received and evaluated, and
orders have been placed.
Credit No. 1970-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.8 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981.
Credit No. 1015-TA - Grain Storage and Milling Project:
uS$43.0 million Credit of April 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
July 15, 1981: Closing Date - June 30, 1987
This credit became effective on July 15, 1981.
EDTTCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Overall project completion has reached 56%. Construction of VMT
houses and two secondary schools has been delayed due to lack of building
materials, means of transport, local funds and incentives on the part of
the villagers. While the overall educational objectives of the project
will be met by the closing date, the specific objectives of the secondary
school facilities- survey will only be partially fulfilled.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25,
1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
Design work is -near completion and physical project implementa-
tion is gaining momentume Tenders for civil works are either under
evaluation or contracts -ave been awarded. Due to increase in construction
cost, the cost of civil ->-rks to be financed under the project is expected
to be above appraisal estimates. Implementation of educational objectives
is reasonably underway and related issues have now been properly identified
and will be addressed accordingly.
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Eduction Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has started providing posi-
tion briefs to respective Directorates of the Ministry of Education. In
addition, briefs on primary education and support services have also been
prepared. Nominations for fellowships for the National Examination Council
and for Teacher Training Colleges are being processed but little progress
has been achieved for acquiring technical assistance. Work for the Teacher
Training Colleges in Zanzibar is ahead of schedule. Sites have been
selected and a team from the PIU visited Zanzibar to carry out preliminary
surveys. Staff houses are now available for use by the faculty of the
Nkrumah College.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project: US$14.0
million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness -
August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruit-
ment of project coordinator is being finalized and the consultants for the
rehabilitation of project lodges and hotels, have been appointed. The con-
struction site identified for the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
(HTTI) proved to be unsuitable because of size and shape, thereby delaying
implementation of this component. Alternative sites are being explored.
Improvements to the airport terminal is likely to be dropped because the
Government was able to secure alternative financing. Vehicles for anti-
poaching activities have been received and allocated to TANAPA and the
Ngorongoro Conservation Authority. Tenders for the supply of radio tele-
phone and binoculars are being prepared.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all
equipment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, it became
necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to address organiza-
tional problems encountered in its implementation. The previous Closing
Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assist-
ance contract with the consulting firm ORT" expired in November 1979, and
the Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the pro-
ject.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although implementation has been slow due to delays in creating
Regional Transport Companies and in procuring trucks, some improvement has
been recorded recently and the Government's contribution to the National
Trucking Company for equity in the transport companies was increased to T
Sh 28 million, still falling short of T Sh 50 million to be made up in
1981/1982. Technical Assistance has been extended since 1978; currently
about 18 experts are assisting in the project implementation. All five
regional trucking companies were created in early 1981 and a Board of
Directors appointed with most of management staff recruited.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.0 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3,
1980; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This is a follow-up to credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of
the national trunk road system. All three key advisers and six key local
staff are now in post. All 120 students are receiving training in various
engineering colleges overseas and are making good progress.  Bids for
procurement of road maintenance equipment have been received, and are being
analyzed by the Government.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness
- August 13, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Project implementation is progressing well. The consultants have
submitted a number of reports and drawings to the Tanzania Harbours Autho-
rity (THA) for their review and comment. The only major problem is one of
coordination concerning the commissioning of the new oil jetty which requi-
res that the pipe work link to the refinery and the existing network be
completed and ready for use at the same time as the jetty. THA has been
asked to decide on who will design and carry out the actual site work, as
well as finance the foreign exchange costs.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily in
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready for occupation. Educational facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in
the project are nearing completion. Satisfactory progress is being made to
improve implementation of the lending program administered by the Tanzania
Housing Bank. As the remaining balance under the credit of US$1,713,650
was expected to be fully disbursed within three to four months after the
December 31, 1980 closing date, this date was not postponed; application
for final disbursement was submitted in May.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of Novemger 3, 1977; Date of Effective-
ness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential
components although overall implementation progress is slow. In order to
accelerte progress on house consolidation under the first project,ini-
tiate cost recovery in squatter areas, and strengthen the Dar es Salaam
City Council, the Government, THB, SIDO, Dar es Salaam City Council, and
the Association have all agreed to reshape the project. The changes inclu-
ded: addition of management costs for the DCC consolidation unit and a
collecton unit within the Treasury; strengthening of the DCC maintenance
operations; deletion of the Nutrition Extension and MCH guidelines and
SIDO's second site in Tabora which was necessitated by a cost overrun on
the first site; and reduction of THB house loans. Funds for the consoli-
dation and collection units have been provided through marginally trimming



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
the demonstration houses, community facilities, THB/ARDHI promotion and
training, and savings on the Finance Study and project preparation. The
reshaping was finalized in July and recruitment for the new management unit
is underway.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of Janury 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The new water system was expected to be in operation by August
1981; the Mindu dam will be completed about 24 months behind schedule. In
view of the continuing poor performance of the contractor (Cicol) for the
Mindu dam, the Government had to terminate their contract and negotiations
with the initial bidder is currently in progress.   The project cost is
currently estimated at US$30.1 million, or about 56% over the appraisal
estimate of US$19.2 million. Progress in project implementation and the
expected large increase in project cost is being closely monitored.  The
loan closing date of June 30, 1981 was not postponed pending receipt from
the Government of a realistic schedule for completion of the project and
indication of how they intend to finance the cost overruns; however, it was
agreed that disbursements would continue until December 31, 1981.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project was financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. Project comple-
tion is on schedule and the generators have been commissioned. Due mainly
to underestimation of the project costs by the engineering consultants,
current estimated project cost is US$97.8 million, compared to appraisal
estimate of US$89.2 million, a cost overrun of 28%. KfW and SIDA have
increased their contribution to the project and an EEC Special Action
Credit (No. 55-TA) in the amount of US$7.0 million, to be administered by
IDA, has also been allocated to the project to cover the cost overruns.
Disbursement of IBRD, SIDA and KfW funds is virtually completed; disburse-
ment of the EEC Special Action Credit is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
Drilling of the onshore well under the project has been abandoned
because of various technical difficulties which were aggravated by manage-
rial problems, particularly the absence of close and effective project
control. Drilling of the offshore well is proceeding satisfactorily.
Little progress has been made on the technical assistance component of the
project, except for the TPDC management and fiscal study, where consultants
are already in the field.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
This loan is fully committed. However, because of slow implemen-
tation of some of the sub-projects financed by TIB under this project, the
closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 in order to finalize
disbursement. The undisbursed balance remaining under the loan to date is
US$950,000.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA1 - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5,
1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980 and commitments
and disbursements are progressing better than estimated at appraisal. In
the light of the difficult situation in Tanzania, particularly the severe
foreign exchange shortage, TIB is revising its operational strategy to
focus in the near-term on providing funds which would enable projects to
replace, balance, or modernize their machinery and equipment, improve capa-
city utilization, promote exports, and otherwise assist improvement of
balance of payments. TIB is also being encouraged to use a portion of the
Bank's loan, on an exceptional basis, to meet part of the requirements for
imported inputs of some of its high-priority projects which are likely to
face very low capacity operation, or even closure, following meagre alloca-
tion of foreign exchange.
lIn addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support
of this project is being administered by IDA.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and
all technical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National
Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile
mills, has agreed to institute an immediate action progam to improve the
operating performance of existing mills.  The project was technically com-
pleted in October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to
utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which
are essential parts of the project, and in order to finalize disbursements
on the awarded contracts, the Closing Date was postponed by another six
months to December 31, 1981.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing
its program of economic development through financing preinvestment and
feasibility studies for projects in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiency and capacity utilization investments, and training
for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation, evaluation and rela-
ted techniques. Although the credit was virtually completely committed,
some previously approved studies were cancelled and about US$90,000 -
100,000 became available from savings on other studies. The Closing Date
was therefore postponed by 12 months to June 30, 1982 to continue disburse-
ment on the amounts already committed for studies already in progress.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and US$11.5
million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness
- July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project imlementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan both of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in spite of
some problems encountered with the awarding of the civil works contract.
No further delay is anticipated in project completion.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million credit and US$30.0 million Loan, both
of April 6, 1979: Date of Efectiveness - April 15, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Lack of progress in implementing essential related infrastructure
outside the project, particularly the township, has caused project delays.
Total project cost has now increased by about US$111 million, or 40% above
appraisal estimate. Financing of the foreign exchange component of the
township is being arranged through a subsidiary loan from the Kuwait Fund.
Consultants have been requested to review the project's implementation
schedule, define its critical elements, and revise its cost estimates.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31,
1983
The loan is about 70% committed and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project: US$11
millon Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981, Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on February 10, 1981 and TIB is
currently in the process of recruiting an agricultural economist for the
Technical Assistance Unit. Processing of study applications is proceeding
smoothly, the general training component is also being implemented satis-
factorily.
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Credit No. 1133-TA - Export Rehabilitation Program: US$50.0
million Credit of April 24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
May 12, 1981, Closing Date - March 31, 1982
This credit became effective on May 12, 1981 and approximately
TISS5.n million have been disbursed. The new institutional arrangements for
import allocation are working well.  A draft policy statement for both
agricultural research and extension have been prepared and are being
incorporated within an overall agricultural policy document. The target
for the Government s own contribution to the foreign exchange requirements
of agriculture was actually exceeded during the period April 1-June 30,
lqRl.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East
African Community.1
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs,
lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improve-
ments for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep
water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training
school building and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of
several berths and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold
storage facilities and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a
lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has
been completed and a joint project completion report was issued in January
1979. Because of shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor
project elements have not been submitted for Bank financing: the second
phase of modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar
es Salaam, modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for
Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been awarded for these project
elements with the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in
Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts
for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has improved with
increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity has stagnated in
Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined considerably. Legis-
lation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority and a Kenya Ports Autho-
rity has been enacted. Management of Ports in both countries is compe-
tent. Some US$34.50 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.15 million of Loan
865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
funds of October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
lSince October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding
the East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors
dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is
given in this Annex. The Closing Date for loans 638-EA, and 865-EA have
passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the Agreement signed
on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report (R77-312), we are
continuing disbursements.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
For Loan No. 638-EA                         (US$ million)
Kenya                                      0.7
Tanzania                                   0.6
Total                                   1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                      1.7
Tanzania                                   0.3
Total                                   2.0
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procure-
ment caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation
of headquarters. About US$32.20 million of the loan had been disbursed to
date. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ Million
Kenya                     2.4
Tanzania                  3.5
Uganda                    0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$11.73 million
of the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommited balance amounts
to US$3.0 million.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ Million
Year           Obligor            Type of Business        Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar       Food Processing            3.96   0.70    4.66
1964       Company
1978     Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture             1.38   0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products        Household Utensils         1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
Total gross commitments                  6.67   1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   4.05   0.69    4.74
Total commitments now held by IFC        2.62    0.55   3.17
Total undisbursed                       0.06       -    0.06



- 47 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I        Timetable  of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to IDA                   October 1980
and initial appraisal
(b)  Post Appraisal Discussions                  March/July 1981
(c)  Completion of Negotiations                  December 1981
(d)  Board Presentation                          February 1982
(e)  Planned date of Effectiveness               April 1982
Section II       Special Association Implementation Actions
The Association has approved a PPF advance of US$200,000 to
facilitate the initial activities of the Advisory Group
under the Project.
Section III      Special Conditions
(a) The Ministry of Agriculture would appoint, by June 30,
1982, an Administrative officer to assist the Director of
Planning in implementing the largest component of the
project (para. 49)
(b) The Ministry of Agriculture would appoint a Financial
Adviser within its Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau
by September 30, 1982, to prepare a recruitment and work
program for a team of financial advisers, for submission to
the Association not later than December 31, 1982 (para. 49)
(c) The Ministry of Agriculture would enter into
arrangements with project beneficiaries, satisfactory to the
Association, setting out the terms and conditions of
employment for individual specialists, including work
objectives, responsibilities and positions within the
employing organization, training objectives and detailed
arrangements for operational support (para. 50)
(d) The Government would establish, by June 30, 1982, a
Technical Assistance Advisory Committee responsible for
annual reviews of progress under the project; making
recommendations, where necessary, to improve its execution;
and reviewing requests for supplemental technical
assistance, training or support equipment (paras. 52-53).



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
ADVISORY GROUP: TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.        The purpose of this memorandum is to outline the understanding of
the Government and the Bank on the Terms of Reference and Modus Operandi of
the Group.
Purpose of Advisory Group
2.        Since Independence, Tanzania has made significant progress
towards the achievement of its development objectives, and has been
supported in its efforts by assistance from the World Bank, among others
TJnfortunately, in recent years, a constellation of external and internal
factors has led to concern that progress over the medium and longer term
may be jeopardized. While admittedly internal factors like output and
export decline have to a certain extent contributed to these problems,
external factors, namely rapid increase in the prices of oil and other
imports, deteriorating terms of trade, and unfavorable weather have been
the most overwhelming. This situation, however, is not unique to Tanzania
and in fact a number of developing countries have similar problems. The
Goverment is aware of the seriousness of the present crisis, and is keen to
develop an appropriate remedial action program of rehabilitation and
structural adjustment, at least to deal with those factors within its
control. To assist and complement these efforts, the Government and the
World Bank have agreed to collaborate in setting up an Advisory Group.
3.        The Advisory Group will, in consultation with the Government,
prepare a set of analyses and recommendations for the medium-term
development of the economy. The end-result of this exercise is to be a
government action program that will:
(i) help the management of the economy in the short and medium
term; and
(ii) provide the basis for mobilizing appropriate levels and com-
position of international assistance.
Terms of Reference
4.        The Advisory Group will analyze the main factors which have held
back the productive sectors of the economy, and assess the potential for
efficient and equitable growth in the future. On the basis of this analy-
sis, the Advisory Group will make recommendations on components of an
appropriate multi-year action program for economic rehabilitation and



- 49 -
ANNEX TTI
Page 2 of 3
structural change. In formulating its recommendations, the Advisory Group
will pay particular attention to the need for maintaining existing assets
and improving capacity utilization in the productive sectors.
5.        The Advisory Group's work will include, inter alia, analysis and
recommendations on:
(i) improving incentives for production and exports, including
trade and pricing policies and productivity schemes;
(ii) improving the effectiveness of economic institutions and
management, including policy and program analysis, planning
and implementation;
(iii) improving the economic performance of parastatals;
(iv) operational criteria for sectoral allocations for public
sector development and recurrent expenditures;
(v) operational criteria for the selection of new investment
projects;
(vi) mobilizing domestic public, private and corporate savings;
and
(vii) mobilizing external resources for the comprehensive multi-
year government action program for economic rehabilitation
and structural adjustment.
Modus Operandi
6.        The Advisory Group will comprise three internationally recognized
and respected experts, knowledgeable about the problems faced by Tanzania
and sympathetic to Tanzania-s development objectives, and supported by a
full-time Secretariat. The Tanzanian Government and the World Bank have
agreed on the composition of the Advisory Group: Mr. Ernst Michanek
(leader), Mr. Cranford Pratt and Mr. Gerald Helleiner. Final selection of
the Head of the Secretariat will also be mutually agreed by both parties
and the leader of the Group. The Advisory Group will have access to infor-
mation from, and discussions with, a range of Ministries, Agencies and
individuals.
7.        The Secretariat will comprise 3-5 development economists.  Both
the Government and the World Bank will suggest candidates for the Secre-
tariat. It is generally understood by both parties that this would be done
in consultation with the Leader of the Advisory Group and the Head of the
Secretariat. The Secretariat will be responsible for:



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
(i) collecting data and relevant studies from a variety of
sources;
(ii) preparing background papers;
(iii) recruiting short-term Tanzanian and international
consultants to prepare reports on special topics; and
(iv) assisting the Advisory Group in preparing initial report
drafts.
8.        The Advisory Group is to be selected as soon as possible, with
the intention of assembling during September 1981. Thereafter, the
Advisory Group may wish to meet periodically to prepare and consider inte-
rim reports at key stages, e.g."issue identification" and "policy options."
To assist collaboration between the Group and the Government, the interim
reports will be discussed with a Review Group headed by the Principal
Secretary, Ministry of Planning and comprising the Principal Secretary,
Treasury, the Economic Advisers to the President and the Prime Minister,
and representatives of other Ministries or Agencies as required. The Review
Group will brief Ministers as appropriate. A comprehensive government
action program is expected to be ready and approved by the end of April
1982, although specific components of the program could well be acted upon
earlier. The Advisory Group upon concluding its work will also be respon-
sible for preparing a memorandum outlining areas for further action and
summarizing the underlying analysis of prospects, issues and development
strategy.
9.        The work of the Advisory Group and its Secretariat will be
supported by the Ministry of Planning: the costs incurred by the Advisory
Group will be met with funds provided under the proposed Technical Assist-
ance Credit.
September 10, 1981.



I



0~~~~~~~~0C
ANN D3  /                              . C
(n~
i  11   ,j.|.,,6  9  \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
' ' 1 wX 2  ,/V __7 ' ! 0 ''';g 
it'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >(4 / 
<'   '    \ tS    f }SC X      <'            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
g~~~~~~~~~~ f                                               7N



