Document of
The World Bank
FOR' OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7162-AM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 43.1 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
August 1, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July 24, 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Drain
USS I    =    503 Dram
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBP   -  Basic Benefit Package
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
CBA   -  Central Bank of Armenia
CEM   -  Country Economic Memorandum
CG   -  Consultative Group
CIS   -  Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERC   -  Energy Regulatory Commission
ESAF  -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW   -  Economic and Sector Work
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
IAS   -  International Accounting Standards
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
IPO   -  Initial Public Offering
LDP   -  Letter of Development Policy
MIGA   -  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGO   -  Non Govemment Organization
OECD   -  Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
OME   -  Operation and Maintenance Enterprise
OSCE   -  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PFP   -  Policy Framework Paper
SAC   -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC   -  Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SBA   -  Stand-By Arrangement
STF   -  Systemic Transformation Facility
UNCTAD   -  United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WUA   -  Water Users Association
WTO   -  World Trade Organization
ARMENIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Leader:  Hafez Ghanem, ECSPE
Responsible Staff:  Ana Revenga, Country Economist, ECSPE
Cyril Muller, Country Officer, ECC03



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Airmenia
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Finance and Economy
Amount:                SDR 43.1 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA. with 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee:        A variable rate between 0.0-0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance, set annually be the
Executive Directors of IDA
Proiect ID Number:     AM-PE-44796
Obiectives:            To support the Government's program to consolidate macroeconomic stability and to lay
the foundatiorns for sustained private-sector led growth over the medium termn. The
program includes measures to: (a) improve financial discipline in the private and public
sectors, so as lo increase domestic savings, facilitate further external adjustrnent and
ensure Armenia's creditworthiness; (b) accelerate the growth and development of the
private sector; and (c) ensure the social sustainability of the reform process and preserve
Arnenia's stock of highly-skilled human capital.
Benefits:              The credit woald provide the Armenian Government with financial support to cover the
short-term costs associated with continued economic reforms. The credit will also
provide necessary foreign exchange to purchase imports critical for Armenia's economic
activity. The availability of low cost, non-inflationary budgetary financing will help
consolidate Armenia's economic stabilization and maintain its short-term
creditworthiness. At the same time, the reform program supported by the credit will
address key bottlenecks and enhance the prospects for long-term growth and improved
living standards.
Poverty:               Poverty-focused. The proposed credit would support measures to improve targeting of
social benefits and strengthen the social safety net. The program also includes actions to
reformn the pulblic pension system and to introduce private pensions schemes, to ensure
adequate and affordable long-te.nm protection to the elderly. The reforms in health and
education have as a primary objective to ensure equitable access to essential services.
Risks:                 The risk of significant policy reversals is small as there is widespread consensus on the
need to pursue comprehensive market-oriented reformns. There is a risk that social
discontent wilh the slow recovery of incomes will continue to grow and threaten political
stability. The biggest risk is that current progress towards resolution of the regional
conflicts will stagnate, restraining Armenia's potential for export growth and dampening
prospects for external financing flows. Prospects of a regional boom linked to the
development of the transit potential of the Transcaucasus, particularly for the export of
Caspian oil, s]hould mitigate this risk. All parties are aware that their ability to capitalize
on the benefits of such development will be enhanced by an early resolution to regional
conflicts. Moreover, economic recovery in Armenia has strongly increased popular
support for peace.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents
I. The Economy .......................1..
A. Armenia's Difficult Transition .1
B. Successful Reform Thus Far                             .2
C. Challenges Ahead                                   .3
D. Political Consensus on Economic Reforms                      .4
E. Medium-Term Prospects                                .5
II. The Government's Adjustment Program                          .7
A. Macroeconomic Stability                               .7
B. Structural Reforms-Achievements to Date                       .8
C. Structural Reforms-The Next Stage                          .8
(a) Improvinge financial discipline in the private and public sectors .10
Increasing Government Revenues .10
Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector .1
Extending Reforms into Irrigation and Drinking Water .13
(b) Acceleratingz the development of the private sector .14
Restructuring the Banking Sector .14
Completing Privatization .15
Clarifying Property Rights .16
Developing Capital Markets .16
(c) Ensuring social sustainabilit .17
Strengthening Social Assistance and Social Insurance            .17
Reforming Provision and Financing of Education                 .18
Reforming Provision and Financing of Health Care .19
Il. The Proposed Credit .21
A. Program Implementation and Credit Conditions .21
B. The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy .21
C. Project Implementation .23
D. Risks ..................24
IV. Bank Operations ..............                                                       24
V. Collaboration with Other Donors .25
VI. Recommendation of the President .26
Annexes
Annex 1  Main Economic Indicators
Annex 2   Letter of Development Policy
Annex 3   Policy Matrix
Annex 4   Schedule A
Annex 5   Schedule D
Annex 6   Country At A Glance






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) to the Republic of Armenia for SDR 43.1 million (the equivalent
of US$60 million) to provide support ifor the Government's economic reform program. The credit would
be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of 10 years. The
proposed credit has been prepared in parallel to a second annual arrangement under an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) (SDR 33.75 million) from the IMF. Arnenia's economic reform
program, recent economic developmenits, and medium-terrn prospects are described in more detail in the
accompanying Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) document.
2.    Financing for technical assistEnce to support a number of measures in the Government's reform
program will be provided by the Bank's Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC)
and by the proposed Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC II).
3.    Armenia became a member of IBRD in September 1992, and became eligible for IDA terms in
August 1993. The country joined IFC in March 1995 and MIGA in December 1995.
1. The Economy
A. Armenia's Difficult Transition
4.    Armenia is a nation in gradual recovery from a succession of adversities. Before independence,
a devastating earthquake in 1988 had gravely damaged the country's infrastructure. The prolonged
conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh and ithe conflict in Georgia led to an effective state of economic siege.
Superimposed on these singular evenis have been two major dynamic problems: those caused by the
arduous process of moving the economy from its legacy of central planning, and by departing from
economic and financial interdependence with the countries of the former Soviet Union.
5.    Against this background, economic conditions deteriorated alarmingly in the early 1990s. The
arduous task of nation-building, already threatened by the external conflict, was intensified by acute
hyperinflation. As Armenia's GDP fell by 60 percent between 1991 and 1993, the consumer price index
rose by over 800 percent between 199 1 and 1992, and by 900 percent in just the last two months of 1993.
In end-1994, inflation was over 1,880 percent. Consequently, living conditions in Armenia saw an
appalling decline. Annenia's per capita income fell from $1,810 in 1991 to just $560 in 1993. Real
wages plummeted to minuscule levels: at end-1995 the real average wage was just US$15 per month
(US$7 in the budgetary sector). As the industrial slump and economic reorganization squeezed
employment opportunities, recorded unemployment increased to 7 percent of the labor force, with a
further 15 to 30 percent on unpaid leave or short working time. Poverty became pervasive, particularly
in urban areas (where almost 30% of households were classified as poor or very poor in 1995).
6.    Hyperinflation was a result of both monetary and fiscal policy measures. It was partly a
consequence of Armenia's membership in the ruble area, where most of the other members were
conducting expansionary monetary policies; and was further exacerbated in late 1993, when Armenia



-2-
was flooded with rubles that were being withdrawn from circulation elsewhere in the FSU. The spiraling
inflation was, however, also fueled by the Government's understandable but dangerous attempt to meet
the demands for Government consumption while revenues were in free fall. This caused the budget
deficit to balloon to 48 percent of GDP in 1993 from 27 percent in 1992, largely financed by the central
bank.
7.    A drastic tightening of the macroeconomic belt has brought the situation under control over the
last two years. Policies implementingfiscal and monetary restraint, launched in Spring 1994 and
supported since end- 1994 by inflows of external financing from the IMF and the World Bank, helped
bring down the budget deficit to 8.4 percent of GDP (including grants) in 1996, a sixth of the 1993
figure. Annual inflation fell to under 6 percent in 1996-the lowest in the FSU. And after years of
collapse, GDP grew by 5.4 percent in 1994, by nearly 7 percent in 1995, and by 5.8 percent in 1996.
8.    On the external front there are also reasons for optimism. Armenia's isolation from
international markets has been significantly eased by the recovery of the Georgian economy, rapidly
growing trade with Iran, and greatly increased informal trade with both Azerbaijan and Turkey. It is
expected that this integration will continue to deepen, driven by prospects for a regional boom linked to
the development of Caspian oil, and by progress on bilateral and multilateral negotiations on the regional
conflicts.
B. Successful Reform Thus Far
9.    The core of the Government's reform program has been the stimulation of the private sector.
Almost all agricultural land was privatized in 1991, making Armenia the first country to do so in the
former Soviet Union. Privatization of enterprises started later, but has proceeded quickly, with over 80
percent of small enterprises and about 65 percent of medium and large enterprises privatized to date. At
the same time, Armenia has put in place the main elements of a private-sector friendly environment.
Most restrictions on the emerging private sector have been dismantled, as have barriers to foreign
investment. A new company law and laws on real property, banks and banking, collateral, bank
insolvency and commercial bankruptcy have been adopted.
10.   Armenia has gone a long way towards promoting open and competitive markets. Prices have
been liberalized, and most consumer subsidies, including that on bread, have been removed. State
trading arrangements have been eliminated, and the foreign exchange and trade regime liberalized
(Armenia is likely to be the first CIS country to accede to the WTO). Over the last year, the Government
has also progressed with the restructuring of the energy sector, including cutting off non-paying
enterprises. Collection rates for electricity have increased significantly for both households and
commercial users, and gas imports are adjusting to the payment capacity of consumers. The
improvement in quality and availability of supply is also very encouraging. In 1995, the system was able
to provide on average only four hours a day of electricity. In 1996, 60 percent of households received 24
hours of electricity.
11.   These efforts need to be sustained if Armenia's economic recovery is to be consolidated. Despite
notable progress, the economic recovery remains fragile, particularly on the fiscal and external fronts.
Industrial enterprises (including privatized ones) have been slow to restructure and find new output
markets, and exports remain dependent on a few products (jewelry, processed diamonds). While growth
in services and trade has been buoyant (and is expected to remain sirong), the performance of industry
has been more mediocre. A greater diversification of the sources of growth and a recovery of private
investment is necessary to ensure the medium-tern sustainability of current growth rates. In this context,



-3-
Armenia cannot afford to relax its prudent macroeconomic policy stance, nor can it afford to slow down
the pace of reform.
C. Challenges Ahead
12.    The country faces the dual task of consolidating the advances of the first phase of
reforms-macroeconomic stability, open and competitive markets, improved financial discipline and an
emerging private sector-while moving ahead on the difficult task of completing the transition and
building the supporting institutions needed for a vibrant market economy. A first priority is to continue
to improve financial discipline in the private and public sectors. This is needed to increase domestic
savings (which stood at -21.2 percent of GDP in 1996), and is critical to furthering external adjustment
and reducing Armenia's current account deficit from its present level of 15.4 percent of GDP (including
grants) to more sustainable levels. The primary remaining sources of financial indiscipline are low tax
collections and weak payment discipline in the energy sector, particularly on the part of critical public
utilities (pure water companies and irrigation).
13.    Armenia's success at stabilizing the economy could be compromised by the sharp decline in tax
collections. Tax revenues fell from 13.1 percent of GDP in 1994 to 12.7 percent in 1995. In 1996,
revenues recovered slightly to reach 12.9 percent of GDP, but remain too low. Grants, which make up
the bulk of non-tax revenue, are expected to tail away significantly over the next few years. In this
context, and given the tightness of the expenditure program, strengthening revenue collection
mechanisms is essential for fiscal sustainability. The process has begun with the introduction of a
personal income tax, new excise taxes and a presumptive tax on small businesses (all implemented in
1995), and with measures to make the VAT more comprehensive. However, additional reforms are
needed to improve tax and customs administration, increase the tax base and address the problem of
outstanding tax arrears.
14.    Payment discipline for energy supply was much improved during 1996, as collections increased
from an estimated 50 percent of supply in the first quarter of 1996 to 75 percent in the last quarter.
However, large pockets offinancial indiscipline remain. The biggest non-payers are Nairit Chemicals,
the two drinking water companies, and the irrigation sector. Jointly, these four enterprises accumulated
arrears on electricity and gas payments of US$12.2 million during 1996. This debt, in turn,
compromised the ability of energy sector enterprises to repay foreign creditors for energy imports.
During 1996, Armgas accumulated US$25.4 million of gas arrears (due primarily in goods) to
Turkmenistan. While the 1996 stock of arrears has been cleared, a renewed accumulation of arrears on
energy imports during 1997 could severely undermine both the energy sector's progress on reforms and
Armenia's creditworthiness.
15.   A second priority is the con*inued growth and development of the private sector. This requires
a strong push to accelerate and complete the privatization process, along with efforts to strengthen
enterprise governance and promote enterprise restructuring. Pending reforms of the commercial legal
framework need to be completed (e.g. an adequate legal basis for collateral-based lending should be put
in place); property rights secured; and contract enforcement through the court system improved. At the
same time, if Armenia is to attract private investment, it needs to address basic infrastructure constraints
which remain an important barrier to growth, while developing a policy framework and strategy for these
sectors that is consistent with its limited public resources. This means establishing an appropriate
1 Down from 1995, when Armenia accumulated a total of US$75 million in arrears for gas imports to Turkmenistan and
domestic suppliers.



-4-
regulatory framework to attract private investment, while accelerating the privatization of energy and
other infrastructure facilities. Fostering the development of a vibrant private sector also requires
improving the availability and lowering the cost of investment finance (including access to equity
markets), which remain major barriers to the growth of new private firms and activities. This requires
first and foremost restoring the healtk and credibility of the banking system. It also demands putting in
place a framework for the development of other financial intermediaries (pension funds, investment
funds, capital markets), strengthening the supporting institutions needed for the growth of these markets,
and creating the environment to attract market activities.
16.    The third priority is to ensure that the continued costs of transition are socially sustainable, and
that Armenia's stock of highly-skilled human capital is preserved. Poverty in Armenia is widespread
(almost 28% of households were classified as poor or very poor in 1995), but of a transitional rather than
structural nature-the result of the sharp collapse of real incomes. Sustained economic growth-in
which all households can share-should therefore be at the center of the poverty reduction strategy.
Ensuring access to basic education and health services for poor households is essential to an equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth; such access will also play a crucial role in preventing transitional
poverty from becoming more structural. At the same time, Armenia's highly inefficient health and
education systems need to be reformed, to reverse a trend of declining school enrollments, and
deteriorating quality and standards in both health and education provision. As in the case of basic
infrastructure, a policy framework and strategy consistent with limited public resources needs to be put
in place in both of these sectors.
17.   In the short term, growth will not be sufficient to bring all groups out of poverty; particularly in a
context of widespread economic restructuring. Some highly vulneratble groups (severely disabled
individuals, older pensioners living alone, disabled and other vulnerable children) may need additional
assistance; especially if user fees for basic utilities and social services are increasing as part of the
economy-wide reforms. Scarce fiscal resources and weak poverty correlates limit the effectiveness of
transfers. However, there is scope for improving the targeting of existing social benefits, some of
which accrue in part to non-needy families, hereby allowing for an increase in the level of benefit
received by truly vulnerable households. Moreover, as means testing becomes possible over the medium
term, cash transfers should become a more important component of ithe Government's strategy to protect
the poor.
D. Political Consensus on Economic Reforms
18.    As evidenced by these developments, Armenia has now built an exceptional track record and
demonstrated its commitment by moving forward despite very difficult external circumstances. Indeed,
the reform program was launched before financial support from the IMF or the World Bank became
available. There has been broad continuity in the economic management team since independence and
strong understanding and ownership of the reform process.2
19.    Consensus on economic reform remains in place despite the political changes that the country is
undergoing. The President, Levon Ter-Petrossian, was re-elected to a five-year term in September 1996,
in a disputed election, with 52 percent of the vote. Following the September 1996 Presidential elections,
there were popular protests in Yerevan. Since then, the President has announced his determination to
2 A recent government restructuring has resulted in the merger of the Ministries of Industry and Trade, and of the Ministries of
Finance and Economy. New ministers, both young reformers involved in the economic program since its inception, have been
appointed to take over the newly merged ministries



-5-
continue with, and even accelerate, the reform program. The President recently appointed a new Prime
Minister, Robert Kocharian, who has similarly announced his intention to move forward on both
economic and political reforms. Mr. Kocharian is perceived as a popular leader (he received 80 percent
on the vote in last year's elections in Nagorno-Karabakh), has good relations with opposition leaders in
Armenia and in the Diaspora, and is well-placed to open a dialogue with the opposition in order to build
a new national consensus.
20.    Overall, there is broad agreement between the Government and the opposition on the direction of
economic reforms. However, the opposition was able to capitalize on growing popular dissatisfaction
with the social consequences of refornis. Behind the opposition's support lies widespread discontent
with the failure of real incomes to rise significantly (particularly in urban areas), and the perception that
the benefits of the economic recovery are not being equitably distributed. Although real wages increased
by 18 percent in real terms in 1995 and by over 30 percent in 1996, at US$20 per month they are still
only a third of their 1992 level. Inequality is high, with an estimated Gini coefficient of about 0.60.
21.    Of great importance to Armenia's economic performance is the progress towards peace in the 8-
year-old Karabakh conflict: on July 27', 1994, Azerbaijan, Karabakh, and Armenia signed an agreement
in Moscow formalizing the cease-fire and providing for the immediate commencement of negotiations
on a comprehensive peace agreement. These negotiations have proceeded under the auspices of the
OSCE, with the latest round held in April, 1997. In early February 1997, the OSCE added the United
States to the chairmanship of the negotiating group on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict (which previously
comprised only France and Russia)-a move which increases the pressure on the involved parties to
reach a solution. Despite sporadic skirmishes at the borders, the cease-fire has held since May 1994;
both countries have repeatedly expressed their intention to maintain the cease-fire until a permanent
agreement is reached. A direct dialogue between the presidents of Armenia and Azerbaijan is ongoing.
In parallel, there are indications of rappr'rochement between Armenia and Turkey.
E. Medium-Term Prospects
22.    Economic Prospects. Annual GDPgrowth of 6 percent is projected for the coming decade, as
the reform program deepens and initialtives to expand regional cooperation develop. In the early years,
these high levels of GDP growth are expected to result primarily from higher capacity utilization
(currently estimated at about 30 percent).3 Over the medium term, as the potential for increased capacity
utilization is gradually exhausted, investment in new capacity will play an increasing role in generating
growth. This will occur as private sectior confidence, both domestic and foreign, responds to the
improved investment climate, and as the financial sector plays a more effective role in channeling
savings into investment. Thus, the investment rate, which is currently around 7 percent, is targeted to
rise to about 15 percent by 2000-a level comparable to that of Central Europe.
23.    Growth is expected to be led by export demand both in FSU markets, as those economies
recover, and by increasing penetration of nontraditional markets, such as the Middle East and Europe.
Export trends to date have been encouraging in this regard, although expectations must be tempered by
the highly volatile nature of some of Armenia's main export products (e.g. jewelry and processed
diamonds). Exports (in volume terms) increased by 10 percent in 1995, and by 14 percent in 1996.
Moreover, export data show significant diversification into new markets: exports to non-FSU countries
increased by 53 percent (in volume) in 1995, and by over 80 percent in 1996. Export growth of 8-10
3 A recent survey of 20 Armenian enterprises (Hurwitz, 1996) provides some evidence of such a (modest) upward trend in
capacity utilization.



-6-
percent (in volume terms) is projected throughout the 1998-2000 period, on the assumption of a
continued easing of regional tensions. Infrastructure investments designed to rehabilitate Armenia's
transport and communications with neighboring countries will significantly facilitate growth in external
trade and the development of the country's transit potential. And Armenia's highly-educated and
entrepreneurial labor force will provide a source of comparative advantage in the region.
24.    Of considerable importance to the growth of exports are expectations of an easing of regional
tensions. Cease-fires in the Abkhazia and Nagorno-Karabakh conflicts have held for three years, but
comprehensive peace agreements are not yet in place. Progress towards peace in either conflict would
allow for the reopening of railroad routes to Russia (through Abkhazia or Azerbaijan) or to the Persian
Gulf (through the Nakhichevan region of Azerbaijan). Progress in resolving the Nagorno-Karabakh
conflict would facilitate the opening of the Turkish and Azerbaijani borders to formal trade. This would
reduce existing constraints on external trade, decrease transport costs and increase Armenia's
attractiveness to foreign investors and to transit trade.
25.    Overall, export growth is expected to come primarily from labor-intensive light industry and
services, and to a lesser extent from agro-processing. A reduction in transport costs in response to the
lifting of the blockade would also allow for the recovery of exports of perishables, and certain minerals
and heavier industrial products which are presently constrained, if not completely impeded, by high trade
and transport costs. Armenia also has excess power-generation capacity and the potential to become a
base-load electricity exporter to Georgia, Turkey and Northern Iran. Continued strong export growth,
rising private transfers and factor receipts, coupled with a gradual slowdown in the rate of growth of
imports, should allow the current account deficit (excluding grants) to decrease from its present level of
26.6 percent of GDP to 11 percent by the year 2002. Although officiall grants are expected to taper off,
they are likely to remain significant: the current account deficit including grants is expected to decline
from an estimated 15.4 percent this year to about 6.8 percent by 2002.
26.    External Financing Needs and Debt-Servicing Capacity. Armenia will continue to require
substantial external capital inflows to finance its transition to a market economy and the alleviation of
poverty. Total debt-to-GDP ratios are projected to rise sharply in 1997-1998, reflecting an increase in
disbursements by multilaterals and the extension of some commercial loans to the private sector.
Domestic savings are not expected to turn positive until the year 2000, and the share of preferred
creditors in total debt service is high, but the capacity to service external debt is substantially enhanced
by the high degree of average concessionality of external financing ancd the initial stock of debt.4 As a
result, debt service indicators remain moderate over the period with the debt service-to-export ratio
reaching a high of 19 percent in 1999, then dropping to around 15 percent after the year 2000. Debt
service-to-GDP ratios remain under 5 percent for the full period. Armenia's history of servicing its
sovereign debt is good.
27.    Privateflows (excluding transfers) have not yet played a significant role in financing the external
deficit: foreign investment has been minimal, but is expected to pick up significantly in 1997-1998 with
the privatization of several major enterprises through international tender.5 Commercial bank credit has
been growing but remains small relative to official sources of financing. Foreign interest in the Treasury-
bill market is also increasing, with foreign holdings of T-bills represenling about one-third of the total
4 Armenia inherited practically no debt on the break-up of the Soviet Union by agreeing to the "zero option" (whereby Russia
assumed Armenia's share of the external assets and liabilities of the Soviet Union).
5 The expected sale to foreign investors of the Government's share of the national phone company, and of several hotels, are
expected to generate substantial portfolio investment flows in end-1997 or early 1998.



-7-
outstanding stock. As confidence in the Armenian economy grows, the external position strengthens,
and Armenia moves towards full commercial creditworthiness, these sources of financing will become
more important. In the meantime, the bulk of external resources will continue to have to come from
official sources, albeit on a declining basis. For the near term, private transfers from the Diaspora will
also remain an important source of finance; these are expected to develop into investment flows in the
medium term.
II. The Government's Adjustment Program
28.   The main objectives of the Government's economic program are to consolidate the stabilization
gains achieved through 1996 and to strengthen prospects for sustained economic growth over the
medium term. To this effect, the Goveniment is committed to maintaining its prudent macroeconomic
policy stance, while continuing to deepen the comprehensive systemic reforms already underway. The
Armenian authorities recognize that further fiscal consolidation, and continued progress on privatization,
financial sector reform and energy sector restructuring, are necessary underpinnings to continued
economic growth. At the same time, they are firmly committed to ensuring that the continued costs of
transition are socially sustainable, and to preserving Armenia's highly educated and skilled workforce.
In this context, the Government intends to make the reform of health and education a high priority in its
reform program for 1997-1998.
A. Macroeconomic Stability
29.   The Armenian authorities initiated their stabilization program in the Spring of 1994 without
significant external financial support, due to the constraints imposed by the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
However, the early successes of that program and the formalization of the cease-fire in July 1994
allowed approval of a Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) in December 1994. This was followed in
June 1995 by the approval of a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA), and in February 1996 by the approval of a
three-year ESAF. The ESAF is intended to achieve greater integration of stabilization and structural
reform policies than previous arrangements through programming over the medium term. A second
annual arrangement under the ESAF we1s approved by the IMF Board on June 23, 1997.
30.   The Government's macroeconomic policies aim to maintain annual inflation below 10 percent in
1997-98, increase real GDP by 6 percent, and increase the CBA's gross external reserves to an equivalent
of 3.1 months of imports of goods and non-factor services by the end of 1998. These objectives are to be
achieved through continued tight fiscal and monetary policies, and through efforts to promote export
growth and contain the current account deficit. The fiscal deficit is targeted to decline to 6.7 percent of
GDP in 1997 and to 5.7 percent in 1998, leading to an increase in domestic savings and freeing up
resources for private investment. Deficit reduction will be achieved through a combination of improved
tax performance and modest reductions in current expenditures. Tax revenues are targeted to increase to
14.6 percent of GDP in 1997 and 16.6 percent in 1998, mainly through improved tax and customs
administration and through efforts to clear up tax arrears.
31.   Increased domestic savings will allow for a slight improvement in the current account deficit,
which is expected to decline to 24 percent of GDP (excluding official grants) in 1997, and to decline
further to 20 percent of GDP by 1999. The exchange rate regime will remain flexible. In the face of
depreciation pressures, the CBA will tighten credit policies and will use reserves to smooth the exchange
rate path only as long as the reserve target is not at risk.



-8-
B. Structural Reforms-Achievements to Date
32.   At Independence in 1991, the Government of Armenia initiated a comprehensive structural
reform program. Prices of most goods and services were liberalized in January 1992. The collective
farm system was quickly broken up and land was privatized to small holders. Privatization of small
enterprises began in parallel. However, these early successes could not immediately be consolidated due
to the siege conditions imposed by war and blockade. With the easing of the conflict and the
development of alternative trade routes, the Government was able to reinvigorate the structural reform
program in 1994.
33.    During the second half of 1994, there was intensive dialogue between the authorities and the
Bank on the design of a structural reform program. This culminated in the preparation and approval of a
Rehabilitation Credit (Credit No. 2683-AM) by IDA in February 1995. The Rehabilitation Credit
supported the initial implementation of policies to promote the development of competitive markets and
of the private sector through privatization, liberalization and regulatory reform. Implementation of the
program during 1995 was generally strong and led to the approval of a follow-up Structural Adjustment
Credit (Credit No. 2824-AM) in February 1996. The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) focused on
furthering stabilization through restrained fiscal and monetary policies, and on supporting wide-ranging
structural reforms including further liberalization of the trade and exchange system, privatization and
enterprise restructuring, initiation of energy sector reforms, and strengthening of the legal and regulatory
framework for the banking sector.
34.    Prior to Board presentation of the SAC, measures were taken to: (i) eliminate the state's role in
barter clearing agreements with Turkmenistan; (ii) raise electricity tariffs to cover O&M costs for
generation, transmission and distribution; (iii) jump-start the privatization process through amendments
to the Privatization Law and the simplification of privatization procedures; (iv) lay the legal basis for
adequate prudential supervision of the banking sector; (v) restrict the scope of child allowances and
increase the benefit level; and (vi) adopt a Pension law to provide for a phased increase in the retirement
age. The adoption by Parliament of a Companies Law and of the 1996 Privatization Program were
conditions of effectiveness of the credit.
35.   Implementation of the LDP during 1996 was strong, with major achievements in the
privatization of small and medium/large scale enterprises; large improvements in electricity collections,
which averaged 60% of supply for the year; increases in electricity tariffs to cover O&M costs;
introduction and strong enforcement of loan-loss provisioning in comrmercial banks; promulgation of
new, modern laws on Bank Insolvency and Bankruptcy of Enterprises; adoption of a restructuring plan
for the Savings Bank; preparation of an integrated database on the stalus of primary, secondary and
technical education facilities; and the adoption of a health financing reform strategy. Key measures
implemented under SAC I are described in more detail in Box 1.
C. Structural Reforms-The Next Stage
36.    The Government's program has three over-arching objectives: (a) to continue to improve
financial discipline in the private and public sectors, so as to increase domestic savings, facilitate further
external adjustment and ensure Armenia's creditworthiness; (b) to accelerate the growth and
development of the private sector and lay the basis for sustained growth; and (c) to ensure the social
sustainability of the reform process and preserve Arnenia's stock of highly-skilled human capital. The
Government's structural reform program is outlined in the attached Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 2).



-9-
Box 1: Key Measures Implemented Under SAC I
The following key measures had been implemented by December 1996:
*   Over 4000 small enterprises, and about 1000 medium and large enterprises (about 60 percent of the total) had been
privatized.
*   The eleven large enterprises placed in a restructuring program had been liquidated or were in the process of being offered
for sale-six of them through international tender with the assistance of an internationally-respected investment bank.
*   A Bank Insolvency Law and a revised Bankriptcy Law were adopted by Parliament (on June 30, 1996 and December 3,
1996, respectively).
*   A restructuring program for the Savings Banlc was adopted on June 29, 1996. As of November 1, 1996, the Savings Bank
had implemented all of the agreed restructuriing measures (including the closure of 495 of its 542 branches and the dismissal
of 2279 employees), and had restricted all its investments to low-risk transactions.
*   Armenergo's monthly collections for electricity reached 70-75 percent by November/December, 1996, from a low base of
30-35 percent in January/February. Collections from the population reached the 60-65% range, while those from
commercial consumers were estimated at over 80% of consumption. Total collections for the year averaged 60 percent of
electricity supplied.
*   The Government announced an increase in the electricity tariff to an average of 17.5 drams/kWh (implemented as of
January 1, 1997). The Government also announced the introduction of a life-line tariff of 13 drams/kWh for the first 100
kWh/month of residential consumption, with consumption above this level priced at 20 drams/kWh. This rate increase
represented a major step in bringing the tarifl'to full cost-recovery levels.
*   The combination of improved collections and higher tariffs allowed for a significant improvement in payment discipline in
the energy sector. As a result, Armgas's arrears to Turkmenistan on gas imports decreased dramatically. Total arrears
accumulated during 1996 amounted to US$22 million, down from US$75 million in 1995. All outstanding arrears to
Turkmenistan for gas imports were cleared by November 30, 1996.
*   The Government approved a Health Care Financing Strategy which reaffirms the Government's commitment to health care
reform and outlines plans to increase fundingr for primary health care, create a State Health Agency, continue with
decentralization and restructuring of health faicilities, and introduce a basic benefit package and new provider payment
mechanisms.
*   A computerized database on education faciliies (school map) presenting the status of primary, secondary and tertiary
facilities has been developed in the Ministry of Education and is fully operational.
37.    The Government's strategy to improve financial discipline is based on actions in three critical
areas. First, the Government is implementing measures to strengthen its resource mobilization capacity,
primarily through efforts aimed at increasing tax collections and resolving the problem of tax arrears.
Second, the Government is deepening the energy sector reforms started in 1995/96 by building on the
interrelated achievements of more reliable supply, improved payment discipline, and the
commercialization and privatization of energy sector enterprises. Third, the Government is extending
these reforms into other critical, energy-consuming public utilities (pure water companies and irrigation).
In water supply and irrigation, reforms will focus on tariff adjustment, improved payment discipline and
collections, and institutional reforms in the sector.
38.    The Government's strategy to accelerate the development of the private sector focuses on the
completion of privatization, the strengthening of the banking sector, and the development of capital
markets. The Government intends to complete the 1996-1997 Privatization Program this year, and
initiate the 1997-1998 Program which will comprise all enterprises remaining to be privatized (an



-10-
estimated 200). The Government's privatization timetable plans for the bulk of medium- and large-scale
enterprises to be fully privatized by mid- 1998-with the exception of the privatization (for cash) of some
strategic enterprises in infrastructure (mainly energy and transport) which may take longer to finalize.
The Government is committed, however, to initiating the privatization of both energy and transport
facilities during 1998-a measure closely linked to the efforts to strengthen financial discipline in those
sectors. Privatization in and of itself will yield small benefits if there are no mechanisms through which
the new owners can exert their rights and put pressure on enterprise managers. To this end, the
Government's program also supports measures to promote share registration in the centralized registry,
develop the stock market and lay the basis for transparent trading of shares, and facilitate the
development of investment funds and other non-bank financial institutions. In parallel, the Government
is continuing its efforts to restructure the banking sector, building on the progress already achieved in
1996. The recent establishment of a unified registry system for land and other real estate is designed to
facilitate collateral-based lending.
39.   Given Armenia's limited fiscal resources, the Government's efforts to strengthen the social
safety net and to ensure the provision of essential health and education services focus primarily (at
least in the short term) on making better use of the available scarce fijnds. The Government is
implementing measures to improve the targeting of child allowances and is eliminating the existing
system of implicit subsidies in public service provision to so-called privileged (but not necessarily
needy) groups. Resources released through these two measures are being allocated to increasing the real
level of benefits delivered to the more vulnerable recipients. The Government's program also supports
measures to reform the public pension system and to introduce private pensions schemes, to ensure
adequate and affordable long-term protection to the elderly. In health, the Government is implementing
the first stages of an ambitious reform program, which completely overhauls the financing and provision
of health care. Similarly, in education, measures are underway to grant schools greater financial
autonomy, introduce a core curriculum and associated per capita financing, and to consolidate and
rationalize the number of facilities and teachers.
(a) Imp roving financial discipline in the private and public sectors
Increasing Government Revenues
40.   Given the tightness of the expenditure program, efforts to increase public savings and reduce the
fiscal deficit will hinge on the Government's capacity to increase revenues while improving the
efficiency of public spending through better prioritization of expenditures and increased-cost-recovery.
The Government intends to increase tax revenues to 14.6 percent of GDP in 1997 and to 16.6 percent in
1998. To reach that objective, the Government envisages a series of key measures, designed in
collaboration with the IMF. First, the Government is implementing a program to support the gradual
elimination of tax arrears. On February 25, 1997, the Prime Minster signed a decree offering a one-time
opportunity for enterprises to participate in a scheme to pay tax arrears, with a rescheduling of
outstanding arrears and a phased write-off of penalties as a function of timely payments of current
obligations. Second, the Government is redoubling its efforts to improve tax administration. The
enforcement powers of the State Tax Inspectorate have been strengthened, and efforts to assign tax
identification numbers for all small traders are being accelerated, along with the option for them to pay a
presumptive tax. Third, as part of its efforts to strengthen collections, the Government will complete the
programs of computerization of the tax and customs offices (initiated in 1996). In parallel, the Customs
Department is undertaking a program to strengthen its capacity to combat customs fraud. On April 14,
1997 the Government lowered the duty-free exemption for goods purchased abroad for personal use from



-11-
$1000 to $500 per trip, and strengthened quantitative limits on personal imports of cigarettes and
alcohol. The Government has also introduced presumptive taxation of tobacco imports, which covers
VAT, excises and import duties, and has introduced a fixed rate excise duty on all imports of alcoholic
beverages, so as to avoid underinvoicing at Customs. In order to deter smuggling, the Government
intends to establish a system of excise stamps for all alcohol and tobacco products. Moreover, starting
July 1, 1997, all small traders, restaurants and entities providing transportation services have to pay a
presumptive tax which will replace the VAT, profit and income taxes.
41.   On the expenditure side, the Government intends to give priority to productive expenditures,
especially to those on human capital (health and education) and to public investment. These items will
also receive priority in the use of privatization receipts. To improve cash management, the Government
intends to make the Treasury system fully operational by December 31, 1997. With technical assistance
from the World Bank, the Government will also develop a program to strengthen public expenditure
management.
42.   As regards the trade regime, the Government remains committed to maintaining a low and
transparent level of protection for domestic producers. To limit tariff exemptions (and increase customs
revenues), several amendments to the Law on Customs Duties were approved on April 14, 1997. The
revised Law maintains the two band import tariff structure of zero and ten per cent, while increasing
from zero to ten percent the import duty for all agriculture and food products, except wheat and baby
food. The expected impact of this measure will be to increase the average trade weighted import tariff
from 1.5 per cent to 4.4 per cent. Negotiations to join the World Trade Organization (WTO) are well
advanced and are expected to be completed by end 1997. The Government has made strong
commitments to WTO, pledging not to use quantitative restrictions and other trade inhibiting non tariff
barriers, and to impose a ceiling tariff of no more than 15 percent for all imports.
Deepening Reforms in the Energy Secitor
43.   Although energy-related arrears have diminished significantly over the last year, non-payment
for energy remains the main source of "soft" budget constraints in the economy. To harden these budget
constraints, the Government intends to continue with the reform of the energy sector initiated in 1996.
Reforms will focus on applying the legal and regulatory framework introduced in early- 1997, beginning
the financial rehabilitation of sector enterprises, establishing all sector enterprises as joint-stock
corporations, and initiating their privatization.
44.   Financial Strengthening. Financial discipline will be improved through measures to rehabilitate
the financial condition of sector enterprises, and investments in equipment and services to strengthen
their commercial performance. The Government has initiated the financial rehabilitation program by:
(a) discontinuing the Government guarantee to cover the unpaid energy bills of Nairit Chemicals and
authorizing the termination of supplies in the event of non-payment; (b) requiring the drinking water
companies to pay for an increasing share of their energy consumption during 1997, while guaranteeing a
monthly payment by the budget to cover part of the energy bills; and (c) allowing the energy supply
enterprises to reduce supplies to drinking water companies in proportion to payments not received for the
previous month. A Financial Rehabilitation Strategy, which outlines the broad principles to be applied
in the financial rehabilitation of the power sector, was adopted on July 30, 1997. The detailed Financial
Rehabilitation Plan for the sector will be completed by October 1, 1997. The Plan is aimed at recovering
receivables of sector enterprises accumulated up to June 1, 1997, and seeks agreements with creditors



-12-
which would allow power enterprises to retain sufficient revenues, after paying their restructured debt-
service and tax obligations, to at least cover operating costs.6
45.    Through better metering and enterprise management, actual collections from electricity
customers have reached 70% of supply (average for the preceding three months), and are targeted to
reach 75% by end-1997 and 80% by mid-1998. Payments to thegeneration companies are targeted to
reach an average 60% by the end of the year, and to increase further to 70% by mid- 1998. As about 75%
of Armenia's gas supply is used for power generation, improved payments to the generators will allow
Armgas' average collections to reach at least 70% by December, 19S97 and 75% by June, 1998, hereby
strengthening its ability to pay foreign creditors for energy imports. Furthermore, to reduce the
distortions created by the excessive use of payment in goods, the Government intends to limit such
payments to a maximum 25% of total collections for electricity and 30% for gas. Armgas will remain
the only state-owned or controlled entity authorized to procure gas. Starting August 1, 1997, no state-
owned or controlled entity will accumulate any overdue obligations on purchases of gas.
46.    Legal and Regulatory Framework. In April, 1997, the President signed a decree establishing an
independent Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC), responsible for issuing licenses and approving
tariffs in the energy sector. This was followed on June 9, 1997, by the adoption in Parliament of an
Energy Law, which establishes the overall regulatory framework for the energy sector. The Law
separates policy-making, commercial and regulatory functions in the energy sector, creates independent
generation, transmission, and distribution enterprises in the power sector, allows for private ownership,
and mandates that all energy enterprises be licensed under the new regulatory framework.
47.   According to the Energy Law, regulated tariffs for electricity, gas and heat shall cover
reasonably incurred supply costs, including depreciation based on assets valued in accordance with
international accounting standards, interest on borrowed capital, and a competitive return on equity. As a
first step, the newly-established ERC has reviewed the cost structure of gas, electricity and heat supply
for 1997, including relevant actions under the financial rehabilitation plan, and announced an increase in
the average tariff to 21 drams/kWh, which will apply for the rest of tlhe year. By end-year, the ERC will
develop a strategy to fully implement the tariff principles defined in the Energy Law, and will announce
tariffs and rates for each of the regulated enterprises, which will become effective by April 1, 1998.
48.    Energy Sector Privatization. The restructuring of power sector enterprises will be completed by
end-1997, by which time all enterprises will be established as joint-sltock corporations. At that point, the
sector is expected to comprise 4 to 6 generation companies; I national transmission and dispatch
company (Armenergo); and II distribution companies, including I distribution company for Yerevan.
The Yerevan distribution company and Armenergo will be licensed under the new regulatory framework
by April 1, 1998. All other power enterprises will be licensed under the new framework by October 1,
1998.
49.   Privatization will begin once the regulatory framework is fully in place, and all enterprises are
licensed. To this effect, the Government is preparing aprivatization strategy for power and gas which
will be completed by end-1997. The strategy will define the companies and assets to be privatized, level
of ownership to be retained by the state, method of sale, and the privatization schedule. To maximize
investment prospects and the transfer of technology and expertise, the sale methodology will incorporate
an important role for strategic investor privatization by international tender. The Government expects to
6 The bulk of receivables of power enterprises are accounted for by the obligations of Nairit, the drinking water companies, the
irrigation sector and budgetary organizations.



-13-
contract the assistance of international financial advisors in implementing the privatization strategy.
Privatization of the energy sector enterprises will begin in 1998, and is expected to be substantially
completed by the year 2000.
Extending Reforms into Irrigation and Drinking Water
50.    Reforms in irrigation and water supply have an important role to play in the tightening financial
discipline in the Armenian economy. In 1996, the irrigation sector and the drinking water companies
were the biggest non-payers to the power sector. Jointly, these enterprises accumulated arrears on
electricity payments of US$11.2 million during 1996. Without efforts to increase the financial viability
of the irrigation and water enterprises, the restructuring of the whole energy sector could be imperiled.
51.    Irrigation. Armenia's irrigation system was designed to meet the needs of large farms, with little
concern for the cost of providing water. The system is not consistent with today's reality of smaller land
holdings and higher energy prices. Tariffs do not reflect costs-in particular, the large differentials
between the costs of supplying gravity-fed regions and those that require the pumping of water and
payment collections remain low. As a result, the financial situation of the Operation and Maintenianlce
Enterprise for Irrigation Water (OME) is precarious-its annual operating deficits in 1993-1995 were on
the order of 1-2 billion dram, and in 1996 it exceeded 2.5 billion dram.
52.    The Government has therefore initiated a comprehelisive restructuirinig program-comprismg
measures to ensure the financial sustainability of the sector, institutional reforms, and reliabilitationi of
the network. As part of this program, the Government is preparing a strategic financialplan, whicil
includes measures to: restructure OME's outstanding debt to the energy sector and to the budget; revise
the water charges schedule to reduce cross subsidies to high costs zones; increase average tariffs to meet
at least operations and maintenance costs by 1999; and introduce improved financial management
practices. As a first step towards improving the financial viability of OME, the average irrigation water
tariff will be revised prior to the next irrigation season, and differentiated between low and high costs
zones.
53.    The existing institutional structure of the sector-with one large operation enterprise managing
irrigation water throughout the deliveiy chain-does not meet the requirements of the smaller land
holdings and decentralized agriculture. The Government is therefore transferring tertiary and on-farm
levels of the irrigation system from OME to village-level government and to water users associations.
This transfer will give water users greater control over water resources, greater confidence in the stable
supply of irrigation water, and hence will increase the willingness to pay for water. These financial and
institutional reforms will be complemented by an investment progranm to reduce water losses and
improve the safety and reliance of the irrigation network.
54.    Drinking Water. Availability of drinking water has dcteriorated sharply over the last ten years,
as evidenced by the poor condition of collection and distributioll networks, the unlreliable supply at the
household level, and the deteriorating quality of drinking water. Responsibility for drinking water
delivery and the disposal of waste waiter is divided among two enterprises, one covering Yerevan under
the responsibility of the Yerevan MuLricipality, and the other covering the rest of Armenia under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Urban Development. Most drinking water comes from springs and there
are very large differences in the costs of supplying water to the various regions and municipalities
dependinig on whether water is gravity fed or pumped. The financial position of the operating enterprises
i, very weak and collections remain low (40 percent of supply as of May, 1997).



-14-
55.   The Government has designed a comprehensive reform program for the sector, and has requested
the Bank's assistance in its implementation. The three core objecitives of the program are: (a) to
improve service provision through institutional reform, commercial operation of the networks, and
investments to reduce losses; (b) to strengthen the financial viability of the sector through appropriate
pricing and payment policies; and (c) to establish an adequate regulatory framework to attract private
investment and management into the sector. To guide these efforts, the Government is preparing a
financial strategy, which comprises a schedule for tariff adjustments, collection targets, debt
restructuring measures, as well as accounting and financial controls. In addition, the Government
intends to carry out profound institutional reforms in the sector, including its separation into two
wholesale operators responsible for bulk water supply and a number of retail companies established at
the municipal or regional levels. To facilitate private investment in the sector and separate policy-
making from short-term political interests, the Government also intends to put in place a transparent and
predictable regulatory system. To this effect, the Government will establish a regulatory commission,
charged with developing the principles for the regulation of prices, the control of quality of service
provided to consumers, and the regulation and supervision of private participation in the sector.7
(b) Accelerating the development of the Drivate sector
Restructuring the Banking Sector
56.   During 1996, the Govemrnent and the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) made considerable
progress in laying the legal and institutionalframework for a sounder banking sector. In particular, the
authorities achieved the promulgation of modem new laws on the Central Bank, on Banks and Banking
Activity and on the Bankruptcy of Banks, as well as a greatly strengthened Law on Commercial
Bankruptcy. These efforts were reinforced by the introduction and strenuous enforcement of a new loan-
loss provisioning regime in commercial banks. This meant that by end- 1996 well over half of all the
classified loans of banks were reflected as provisions actually on the books of bankshe result being a
far more meaningful set of financial statements. This development was supported by an increase in the
minimum total capital in banks, which presently stands at $350,000, with a firm commitment to increase
this to $1 million by 2000. Banking supervision was further strengthened through IAS on-site
examinations in all banks, and by the gradual convergence of prudential standards to Basle
recommendations, especially as regards capital adequacy. An initial restructuring program for the
Savings Bank was implemented, and on-site examinations and audit work completed. During 1997, the
CBA intends to continue its intensive monitoring of the Savings Bank's efforts. In parallel, the
Government will prepare a privatization strategy for the Savings Bank, and initiate its implementation by
early 1998.
57.   The foundations achieved in 1996 make it possible to take on the complex task of restructuring
some of the large former state banks, which for some years have been seriously de-capitalized and
managerially weak. To this end, in February 1997, the Board of CBA adopted resolutions on the three
weakest of these banks, namely Ardshinbank, Armagrobank, and Armeconombank. In all three cases,
the banks were ordered to find new capital and to take other actions, such as restraints on dividends, to
bring capital levels into compliance with all prudential requirements. To date, Armagrobank and
Armeconombank are achieving broad compliance with the capital adequacy and other targets of the
7 The potential linkages and overlap between the regulatory authority in the energy and water sectors are presently under
discussion. The Bank's ESW program for FY98 includes a study on attracting private participation in infrastructure, to help the
authorities explore alternative institutional options and strategies.



-15-
program. The outcome in the cases of Ardshinbank is less clear cut, and only partial compliance has
been achieved so far. The resolution of the bank's problems is being pursued in parallel with efforts to
resolve the problems of the main enterprise borrowers of the bank. This is being done partly through the
strategic investor program and partly ithrough in depth financial restructuring programs for the major
energy companies, namely Armenergo and Armgas. Ardshinbank is also setting-up a work-out
department to assist with the recovery of some of its bad loans.
58.   The resolutions of the CBA Board have given the banks specific deadlines by which improved
capital positions need to be achieved. If one or more of the banks fail to achieve the targets set for them,
the CBA will initiate the bankruptcy of the banks in question-having already adopted this approach in
the case of smaller banks. The basic strength of the banking sector is now improved to the point that the
demise of one of the larger banks is likely to do little harm either to confidence in the sector or to its
capacity to deliver banking products. At the same time, if one or more of the banks do achieve all the
capital targets defined in the CBA resolutions, the Government will stand ready to compensate the
bank(s) for Government-directed bad loans (in an amount up to Dr. 1360 million) on a basis to be
negotiated with the banks, and using funds earmarked for bank and other restructuring in the 1997
budget.
59.   The final important target for 1997 is to move the majority of the banks to full L4S accounting
systems. The majority of the banks have now had some exposure, through audits, to the basic principles
of IAS accounting. During 1997, there will be an intensive training and hands-on advisory effort
designed to enable the majority of banks to introduce IAS accounts. This initiative will be supported by
a CBA Resolution which will authorize those banks which are able to do so to use IAS accounting as the
basis for official reporting from January 1998 onward.
Completing Privatization
60.   During 1996 the Governmeni. made significant progress on privatization although, as in 1995, the
Government's program targets proved to be overambitious. As of July 16, 1997 the Government had
privatized (defined as signed sales agreements) over 4700 small enterprises, with another 1000 small
enterprises in process ; all remaining small enterprises are to be privatized this year, within the context
of the 1996-97 Privatization Progran. As of July 16, 1997, 1350 medium and large enterprises had been
offered for sale (of which all but 94 had been sold). Approximately 200 small enterprises and 100
medium and large enterprises will be privatized per month, until the 1996/1997 Program is completed.
61.   The 1997/1998 Privatization Program is currently under preparation, and will be adopted by
Parliament prior to completion of the 1996-1997 Program. All remaining medium and large enterprises
will comprise the 1997/1998 program (some 200 in total, including energy sector enterprises, remaining
state bread sector enterprises, hospitals, and others). Most privatizations will take place through the
public voucher auctions. The Government also intends to sell some enterprises by tender to strategic
investors (such as some of the energy sector companies, transport companies and possibly others). These
privatizations will take longer to complete, but offer the incentive of bringing revenues to the budget,
along with much-needed foreign capital and know-how. In addition, the Government will select a
minimum of 3 enterprises for an initialpublic offering (IPO) of shares for cash.
s At the beginning of the program, the state owned an estimated 5000 small enterprises. This number has increased to about
7000, due to the breaking up of larger enterprises into many smaller ones.



-16-
62.   The Government is aware that not all enterprises will be successfully privatized and that it is
essential to ensure quick and orderly exit procedures for those that fail to be sold. The Privatization Law
specifies that if an enterprise fails to sell after two attempts at privatization, it will be liquidated. To
expedite the privatization and liquidation process, the Privatization Law will be amended to introduce a
time limit of not more than 90 days for the second attempt at privatization, or, if a second attempt at
privatization has failed, not more than 90 days for the initiation of liquidation. While fewer than 1% of
enterprises have failed to sell after a second attempt, the Government intends to use liquidations for those
enterprises as a means of freeing any assets of the enterprise.
63.   The enterprise restructuring/privatization program, initiated during 1996 for eleven selected
enterprises, is proceeding smoothly with offering memoranda available for all enterprises and marketing
currently underway. The Government is committed to successfully privatizing these enterprises, or if no
privatization offers are approved, to initiating reorganization or liquidation procedures for these
enterprises in accordance with the Law on Bankruptcy.
Clarifying Property Rights
64.   The Government recognizes the importance of laying a solid foundation for property rights on
which the smooth functioning of a market economy is based. Thus, in December 1995, the Parliament
passed a Law on Real Property which protects the rights of property owners. Basic registration of initial
property rights in real estate has been proceeding through the issuance of deeds. In the agricultural
sector alone, 67,000 land deeds have been issued which define the size and location of rights to land for
roughly a fifth of the rural population. However, to make these property rights in real estate more easily
tradable, the Government recognizes that a unified registry of rights to land and other real estate must
be set up. To this end, the Government issued a decree in June 1997 which defines the ministerial
responsibility for the real property registration system. This will be followed by a Law on Registration
ofReal Property Rights which will be submitted for approval to Parliament by November 1997. This
law will define the procedures and standards which will govern the registration system, guarantee ease of
access to the base of information of property rights embodied in the registry, and specify the
responsibility of the state to maintain the accuracy of the information in the registry.
65.   With the objective of fostering the development of a land market, the Government is
establishing a uniform registration system, along with other necessairy supporting institutions. The
Government also intends to review and modify the property and land tax system to foster the
development of a land market. The Government also intends to amend, by December 1997, all relevant
legislation to give enterprises the rights to purchase the land they occupy. By end-year, the first part of
the Civil Code, and legislation governing the treatment of secured transactions will be submitted to
Parliament.
Developing Capital Markets
66.   The Armenian authorities have taken initial steps in establishing the main legal and regulatory
pillars for the development of capital markets. A national share registry was established, and an
Inspection and Market Supervision Commission set-up within the Ministry of Finance. Three stock
markets are presently operational. However, much work remains to be done-in finalizing the overall
legal framework; in developing and strengthening the supporting institutions needed for the growth of
capital markets; and in creating the environment to attract market activities.



-17-
67.   The Government recently adopted a decree which states that companies with more than 50
shareholders must register their shareholders with the National Central Registry within 30 days and must
issue their shares to shareholders of record within 90 days. It is intended that these steps will protect
minority shareholder rights as well as provide the initial building blocks for secondary market activity.
In addition, to stimulate secondary trading of Treasury instruments, the Government has submitted
legislation to Parliament to remove the tax exemption for Government securities held to maturity. To
ensure a coordinated approach to the development of both legislation and institutions, the Government is
preparing a comprehensive strategy fri capital markets development. This strategy will focus on
specific actions and resources required to establish: a Capital Markets Regulatory Authority which
would coordinate and integrate the eiforts of all appropriate players; stock exchange trading, clearing and
settlement; depositary institutions; institutional investors such as investment funds, insurance companies
and others; commodity exchange(s); brokerages; and other important market needs and participants.
68.   In parallel with the finalization of the strategy, and in order to provide the adequate legal basis
for the development of capital market activities, the Government is preparing a Law(s) on Securities and
the Capital Markets Regulatory Authority, which will provide for the establishment of an independent
regulatory agency. Once the institutional framework is in place, the Government plans to utilize initial
public offerings as a means of privatization for a minimum of 3 selected, high quality enterprises. Such
sales are meant to provide a demonstration effect to other privatized enterprises of the advantages of
listing and trading of shares, as well as provide a supply of quality equity securities to "jump-start" the
development of the market.
(c) Ensuring social sustainabilitv
Strengthening Social Assistance and Social Insurance
69.   Targeting of Social Assistance. The Government of Armenia is committed to the principle of
social equity in the distribution of social benefits, meaning that only the needy should receive cash and
in-kind benefits financed by the state budget. However, the goal of accurately targeting social benefits is
made formidably difficult by the unusual and changing nature of poverty in Armenia. Many families
have unrecorded or informal sources of income, and the usual poverty correlates (family size,
demographic composition) have been shown to be poor predictors of poverty. In the very short run, the
Government has no choice but to continue to rely on a categorical approach to determine eligibility for
existing social transfers, while attempting to improve the targeting of such benefits.
70. As part of the Government's, efforts to improve the targeting of social benefits, the 50%
exemption on electricity tariffs granted to "privileged groups" was removed on June 9, 1997. This
exemption has been replaced with a cash transfer to a more narrowly defined group of beneficiaries
chosen on the basis of vulnerability ( rather than "privilege"), and with a life-line for the first 100 kWh of
electricity available to all households at a reduced tariff. Similarly, tariff exemptions for transport and
communal services have been eliminated for all but a limited number of recipients, and replaced with a
cash transfer to a more narrowly defined group perceived to be particularly vulnerable. In addition, the
Government has issued a decree by which child allowances will be paid only to disabled, orphaned and
other categories of highly vulnerable children, hereby allowing for an increase in the level of the benefit
received by needy families.
71.   In 1998, the Government inlends to consolidate these various social transfers into a single
"vulnerability benefit" aimed at poor households. The move towards a single "vulnerability benefit"



-18-
represents an important step towards the Government's medium-term objective of establishing a single
means-tested poverty benefit as its main instrument of social assistance. To this effect, the Government
is designing (with technical support from the World Bank) the new benefit program, to be implemented
starting January, 1998. The Government will also improve the registration rolls of Paros and change the
formula used to calculate eligibility for the distribution of humanitarian assistance, based on new data
forthcoming from new household surveys.
72.   Pension Reform. The Pension Law adopted in December 1995 laid the foundation for
fundamental reform of the public pension system. The Government's intention when the law was passed
was to develop in parallel a regulatory framework for private pensions, which would eventually
supplement the state provision of a basic pension. However, the Government recognized that the work
on private pensions must be done in conjunction with the development (and as part) of a broader vision
for the overall pension system.
73.   As a first step towards implementing a new pension system., the Government is drafting a
strategy for pension reform aimed at establishing a mixed system of pension provision, comprising a
publicly-managed, minimum old-age pension and private pension arrangements. The strategy will
include an assessment of the financial sustainability of the current public system, and any short term
measures required to contain Pension and Employment Fund expenditures to the level of expected
revenues (such as revisions to the level of pensions and/or an acceleration of the schedule for increasing
the retirement age). As part of this strategy, the Government is preparing a schedule for the development
of the private voluntary and compulsory systems, including a timetable for drafting the required
legislation and regulatory framework, as well as the mechanisms governing the transition to the new
system. In parallel, the Government is also preparing a plan for the introduction of individual
pension/taxpayer identification numbers.
Reforming Provision and Financing of Education
74.   Prior to the break up of the Soviet Union, Armenia enjoyed one of the highest levels of education
in the FSU. However, the economic crisis and the collapse of public finances has translated into a
dramatic deterioration in the quality of education, and a consequent ,drop in enrollments. If left
unchecked these developments could undermine the country's future economic growth. Aware of these
facts, the Government intends to make reform of the education sector a priority in its overall economic
reform program. The authorities are reallocating public spending away from higher education and
toward general education, and have taken steps to improve production and distribution of textbooks and
reduce the costs to parents. The Ministry of Education has also established a management information
system with a comprehensive database on school facilities and staff, which should provide the basis for
the consolidation and rationalization of school facilities.
75.   The key to increasing the overall quality and efficiency of the system is to improve incentives
and the management of resources. To this effect, the Government has adopted an education sector
management andflnancing strategy. The strategy identifies the priority areas for public and private
financing in the education sector; clarifies the status of schools and the steps to be taken to ensure greater
autonomy of schools; establishes new financing mechanisms for different levels of education and details
a plan to introduce per capita financing for general education; describes the revision of norms and
standards to improve cost effectiveness of the system; and explains tlhe approach to be taken in school
consolidation and reduction of staff in the education sector.



-19-
76.   Although the Government's strategy for the sector explicitly acknowledges the need to increase
private financing for education, it is also aware that education should remain a priority for public
spending. At US$9 per capita, public expenditures on education are very low by any standards, and the
Government plans to progressively ,increase expenditures allocated to the education sector. Despite the
tightness of the fiscal program, the Government is committed to not incurring any arrears on education
expenditures in the implementation of the 1997 budget, and to ensuring that the share of appropriations
to the education sector for the second half of 1997 is no less than 9.3% of total current expenditures. In
line with the Government's stated goal of making education a priority for public spending, the 1998 state
budget to be submitted to Parliament will increase the share of total expenditures allocated to education.
77.   In order to make schools more efficient and support private contributions from sponsors and
parents, the government intends to increase school autonomy. For this purpose, it has adopted a decree
which redefines the legal status of schools and school boards to, inter alia, grant schools autonomous
status; and gives school principal and school boards full responsibility for school management.
78.   The general education system is still characterized by a very large number of facilities and staff
(teaching and non-teaching alike). Student/teacher ratios and student/classroom ratios are generous by
OECD standards. The present systerm is neither sustainable nor cost effective. To rationalize the use of
resources, increase efficiency and improve teacher salaries, the Government has adopted a programfor
consolidation of schools. The program will assess the potential costs and benefits of school
consolidation and rationalization of staffing, and will specify processes and mechanisms to manage staff
redundancy and the closure or transfer of surplus facilities. It will provide: (i) detailed guidelines for
Marz authorities on planning and implementation of the rationalization program; and (ii) guidelines for
autonomous schools on measures for improving efficiency. All Marz education authorities will then be
required to draw up their own detai'led rationalization programs, on the basis of broad local consultation,
for submission to the Ministry of Education and Science. These programs for the first two pilot marzes
will be finalized end-year.
79.   The Government will continue the reforms of technical education to make the system more
responsive to market demands, and better adapted to the needs of a market economy. For this purpose
the Ministry of Education and Science is preparing a strategy to reform technical education. The
Government also intends to redefine the system of licensing and monitoring of private and public
universities, in order to ensure that the higher education maintain adequate standards of education and
that it is responsive to the sectoral reforms undertaken in Armenia.
Reforming Provision and Financing of Health Care
80.   Access to high-quality health care is essential to the well-being of Armenia's population. As in
the education sector, however, this access has been curtailed by the financial and economic crisis.
Informal fees and payments are pervasive, and have contributed to severely reducing access by the poor.
Chronic underfunding and inefficiency of the system have led to a steady deterioration in quality and
standards, reflected in declining health indicators.
81.   The Government is committed to improving access to and quality of health care within the
framework of the overall economic reform program. During 1996, the Government took significant
steps towards this goal. As part of its efforts to reform public financing of health care, in 1996 the
Government adopted a healthfinancing strategy based on the separation of financing and provision of
health care. The new strategy stipulates the creation of a State Health Agency charged with purchasing
health care services from both public and private providers. Work is underway on the design of the



-20-
agency and its operating procedures, and the agency is expected to be established and operational by end-
year.
82.   The process of transformation of health budget institutions into autonomous units has progressed
rapidly, and all secondary and tertiary facilities have been given the status of state enterprises. In
parallel, most dentists, pharmacies and a number of other health facilities have been privatized. The
most dramatic reforms have taken place on the financing front. The 1997 budget for health care
introduced, for the first time, a program budgeting approach based on a minimum Basic Benefit
Package (BBP) of services entirely financed by the state. All other health care services are being
provided on a fee-for-service basis. The current Basic Benefit Package (BBP) is to be revised during the
year, to ensure that the package is financially sustainable and reflects the costs of providing the services.
The content of the BBP will be improved to address the main burden of disease, as well as health
conditions which have a strong social impact. It will also be redesigned to be more cost-effective and, in
particular, the number of beneficiaries receiving free care outside of the minimum basic package will be
reduced. The Government is also preparing standards for licensing of health facilities and mechanisms
to regulate the prices of health services not funded by the State.
83.   The Government recognizes that health care should remain a priority for public spending. At
US$9 per capita, public expenditures on health are extremely low (as compared to a WHO-recommended
average of US$12-20 for low and lower-middle income countries). Despite the tightness of the fiscal
program, the Government is committed to not incurring any arrears on health sector spending in the
implementation of the 1997 budget, and to ensuring that the share of appropriations to the health sector
for the second half of 1997 is no less than 9.3% of total current expenditures. In line with the
Government's stated goal of making health a priority for public spending, the 1998 state budget to be
submitted to Parliament will increase the share of total expenditures allocated to health.
84.   In order to improve the effectiveness of the hospital sector, by November 1, 1997, the
Government will define a strategy for hospital restructuring that will allow for closing, merging and/or
reprofiling of public hospitals; privatization of hospitals; and re-licensing. In parallel, the Government
will privatize six hospitals (already included in the 1996/97 Privatization Program), and will introduce
private management in two others. As part of these restructuring efforts, the Government will also
transfer the management of a hospital to an NGO, in order to improve the quality of and access to health
care for the poor. This facility would provide a protection of last resort for the most vulnerable families,
and is meant to serve as a transitional measure until adequate targeting mechanisms can be defined so as
to provide free care outside of the minimum basic package to those who cannot afford to pay. Patients
would be admitted to the hospital on self-selection basis after screening by the NGO.
85.    To ensure coordination between the health reforms and the education of health personnel, the
Government is also preparing measures to regulate medical training, including a plan to restructure basic
and post-graduate medical training programs, criteria for the licensing of medical schools, internship and
residency programs and training sites, and measures to regulate enrollment into undergraduate and post-
graduate medical training programs. The Government is also developing some priority public health
policies including an anti-smoking policy, and AIDS prevention programs.



-21-
III. The Proposed Credit
A. Program Implementation and Credit Conditions
86.   The proposed SAC II would support the implementation of the Government's program described
above. It would be a US$60 million operation, divided into two tranches. Box 2 presents the matrix of
policy conditionalities that the Government would have to fulfill in order to have the SAC II funds
released. The detailed reform progrann, including timetables for the implementation of specific
measures, is described in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 2). A task force drawn from
the central and line agencies, and coordinated by the Ministry of Economy, has been established to
monitor implementation of the program.
87.   The program will involve several supervision missions. A set of performance indicators, agreed
to during negotiations and attached to the minutes of negotiations, will guide the supervision and impact
assessment of this operation.
B. The Proposed Credit and the Country Assistance Strategy
88.   The draft CAS to be presented to the Board in August 1997 presents an assistance program
aimed at sustaining growth through the rapid development of the private sector, and at securing the social
sustainability of the reform process. The CAS' s support to private sector development is mainly
indirect, focusing on: (i) improving the environment for the private sector by strengthening the financial
system and the legal and regulatory framework; and (ii) alleviating key infrastructure bottlenecks,
particularly in transport and energy (both directly and by catalyzing private participation in these
sectors). Social sustainability and the alleviation of poverty are pursued in the CAS through the
strengthening of the social safety net, and through improvements in the quality of and access to basic
health and education services. Experience to date in Armenia shows that beyond the provision of direct
financing, the Bank can play an important role in the social sectors in coordinating interventions by other
donors and in strengthening local community and NGO involvement.
89.   The CAS proposes a high-case program blending US$150 million of IDA resources with modest
amounts of IBRD funds, which will build up very slowly starting with a single US$35 million project in
FY98. The high-case assumption has proved justified to date but will be evaluated on a continuous basis.
Continued progress with reforms, but slower-than-expected progress on the resolution of regional
tensions and/or lower outcomes in terms of the targets for GDP growth, exports and revenues, would
justify moving to a medium case program of US$130 million of IDA, and smaller amounts of IBRD
resources. The CAS makes agreement on a second SAC and its implementation a condition for staying
in the high case scenario. The justification for this is that the measures to be supported under SAC
II-bank sector restructuring; improved financial discipline in public utilities; completion of
privatization and liberalization of markets; and development of capital markets-are essential to
improving the environmentfor private sector development, as well as necessary conditionsfor
macroeconomic stability and creditmworthiness. By seeking to maximize the role of the private sector,
these measures also provide the underpinning for sector strategies-in health, education, energy,
agriculture, water-consistent with Armenia's limited public sector resources. The SAC II operation
also provides the fundamental policy framework for the success of the ongoing reforms in the social
sectors, and hence underpins the long-term social stability of the economy.



-22-
B-  ; .          OFFO      CNDIONALITY 2. ." .XOFPOMCU
MEAURES TAKEN RIOR TO BOAR,                           D MEAURES TOBE TEN P                  T0 SE CON 
PRESENTATION,  ~ ~                     rRANC1il~ELEASKE
*   ThlEe Go7vernment has nhintanedthe agreevdM                          .   agreed macroeconomic tl  ,mework
t ma. ^rqeconomic -ramewp, '  7 i
- rap4hpleie t. inamnnersastcoy  lhe
A A  Energy Law sepiatg'policy)mkifg, C              and. 2    F  ha,           t        Pkz    fu-
*egulatory u tbnctios  bn e t energy sector wa a4cpt  by
x  nces  Ietns             d-srpaid to    ~ti
Parliumt.                    *          =                                 o            em          ita=
*'  The duty-free exemptior for goods purchase abioad td  - ^     t 83ezl98          tei25%ohnioti
lowed efrom $1000 tr$00peatrii  anqatit tiYS              c oUfio,f oras oicit. 1 97wd tbei ek.ff
h6t on Ped anatt imofe bdaRr,ts> .$c   si.Ua a;,
stre~ngthened.                                                                       at           i  ed
> * w A de~ree lianbeen is;uedrequikinigthe dti*>  .. >t kinai.                                       *numf9
compn ,ies  E         n SWtoa y foan i sn re vi,  r  '                                     - 5       0s*, gy
the energy w sucpply entarpfisg  etot      ,                   
drinjking,w1Iautercmaiei progortia s)a,  hesit1W9 
S  .     ,,   .   .c6      ...     1lt,.pro'iwn                   gfoe#ras o ftIet~e e.its
Collectiovnsni from end- tes paid to  slr 'tio 8x., -             n'q   strx^roeXi   vrx,rt,il'
widea  wt more bnappli ( taherag   r te redis       'p
ofhrecmondwithsn)90. das      '.                                       '.,   '"
. i, Energy Rgato  .o ha rev*we    cost , structur  .f.. g- e t ar of 1h Cv M    and^.
inclldn relevanpations      untri  frdecr hetimcity ranpQt and '  nw egstion  g d~to~ov rem sing the tatenatiof~ securedi'. }?
pla, and              annrv i       d repl        ,       consatiencf- th   .          a   y 
whithcash wtrl applystoamrtin    definmb edp-,     grou eof                ,                       . 
the                                                       r ~  ~  ~ Pa~1mept systemofchild allo aincesandg .omp.e...
Ae vere men   adoped ar-eestrin chi      n                forw th     of      e 4tern so     e         or
4tmediumead loarg highly vulner e     beildten, an increasn   or mIn uvnal servaie a
th' 1i74ia aor any ofthe allerrise
* Adere yhasf     st    atornn e o                   edcte ise an c        prolta-i the   ovne  wigt
compDnieOs wchore than 0sharedopled    ms reite
* Red-ev     rgan iaiot     utr for               t e
till sexhedare ers wito the eduationa  andhalth setors'   enterprises fin aoranciall   wsthe appiabelawts  ftheot
withine 3mpdayos `d ute 1h9i bharet havehbeen             Rprbid  oh Aenia.
of recornatd wthin9 days. of toa curn expenditualamnrtesiStprto teCii Cd ad
salloctto excmpi on tariffsl     for ecr*yas n              oew l neitone governmngthe  reatmen Pofgcre
itn  chng transfers to armor narrowlydesthan   gr3%    ofo
pian, and anno6riced' a                    rplce hesytemofchid lloanesandcoaenaton
150A decre  caiind thlsatus an  oenne feuainan  elhi he]     ugt
aTon ovmousechol has bdpeen adpe by Goverment
their sharebolders Vith the  ~Reviean d redsg  h   Bfrte198bde,t
All xpenitue arearsto he eucaion nd halt secorsensure ts fin  cranciall wsutainabpleandrelect thecoss off
in theimpleentaton ofthe 197 buget hve ben  proidingthe sericittte fs.     ato h   ivlCd  n
eliminated. The sh reo totle curety exapenirturesetramtto  eued'"
alloatedto eucaion nd halt in he 197 udge for * Podue assindler"th uCioernmnitys Reform Pr'ogram t
the sveond halfun of the yarlslowlsstance.3foea.stiacrrtoIA



-23-
90.    SAC 1I-supported policy reforrns are also necessary for the success of ongoing Bank investment
operations, as well as for several operaltions under preparation. Strengthening the banking sector,
developing capital markets, completing privatization and securing property rights are all important to the
success of the Enterprise Developmeni, (FY97) and the Agriculture Reform Support (FY98) projects.
Improved financial discipline in energy, water supply and irrigation are key to the reforms efforts in
those sectors, supported through the Electricity Distribution and Transmission (FY98), Municipal
Development (FY99) and Irrigation (FY95) projects. Putting in place an appropriate policy framework
for comprehensive reform of the health and education sectors is a prerequisite for implementing the
Primary Health (FY98) and Education (FY98) projects. At the same time, the Bank's investment
lending portfolio is designed to supporL: the SAC program. The above-mentioned projects in agriculture,
education, health, electricity and municipal services will deepen the reforms initiated under SAC II, and
will provide institution building and detailed implementation support that is needed for their success.
C. Project Implementation
91.    Credit amount and borrower. The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) of
SDR 43.1 million (equivalent of US$60 million) would be made to the Republic of Armenia represented
by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Disbursements under the proposed SAC II will be to the CBA,
and an account of the Ministry of Finance and Economy at the CBA will be credited with the dram
equivalent at the official exchange rate of the day. The official exchange rate to be applied will be
determined by the inter-bank foreign currency auction market. The Government will thereby receive
non-inflationary budget support. The foreign exchange proceeds of the proposed SAC II will be sold by
the CBA or will be held in reserves, in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy. The proposed
SAC will be released in two tranches: the first on effectiveness and the second on fulfillment of the
specific tranche release conditions outlined above, if general progress on implementation of the LDP
(including attainment of its macroeconomic stability objectives) is also satisfactory. The credit would be
on standard IDA terms, including a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace period. A technical assistance
credit in the amount of SDR 3.6 million (equivalent of US$5 million), prepared in parallel to SAC II,
would support implementation of the mneasures contained in the LDP.
92.   Disbursements. The Borrower will open an account in the CBA. Upon notification by the
Association of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by the
Association in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds
of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member countries,
or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to either (a)
return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the
Association, in which case the Associaetion will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit.
93.   Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date. Although routine audit of the Deposit Account will not
be required, the Association reserves the right to require it. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
within six months of the release of the second tranche. It is therefore proposed that the closing date of
the credit be June 30, 1999.
94.   Environmental Safety. The project will have no direct impact on the environment. For the
purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it has therefore been placed in Category C which does not
require an environmental assessment.
95.   Poverty Category. The proposed credit is poverty-focused since it will support improvements in
the targeting of social benefits to the poorest groups. In addition, the credit supports measures to



-24-
improve the quality of basic health and education services, and to ensure equitable access to those
services, especially by the poor.
D. Benefits and Risks
96.   Benefits. The credit would provide the Armenian Government with much-needed financial
support to cover the short-term costs associated with continued economic reforms. It will also provide
necessary foreign exchange to purchase imports critical for Armenia's economic activity. The
availability of low cost, non-inflationary budgetary financing will help consolidate Armenia's economic
stabilization and maintain its short-term creditworthiness. At the same time, the reform program
supported by the credit will address key bottlenecks and enhance the prospects of long-term growth and
improved living standards.
97.   Risks. The risk of significantpolicy reversals is small, as there is widespread consensus, even
among the opposition, on the need to pursue comprehensive market-oriented reforms. There is a risk,
however, that social discontent with the slow recovery of incomes will continue to grow and threaten
political stability. This could lead to a slowdown in the pace of reforms, if not economy-wide, at least in
some more politically and socially sensitive areas. The best counter to that risk is to move quickly on
those critical reforms that are needed to sustain growth, while paying nnore attention to social protection
and the delivery of basic social services.
98.   The main risks to the realization of Armenia's economic potential are on the external front. The
biggest risk is that current progress towards resolution of the regional conflicts will stagnate, restraining
Armenia's potential for export growth and dampening prospects for external financing flows. The cease-
fire in the Nagomo-Karabakh conflict has held since May 1994, and progress has been made in peace
negotiations. However, there is still a risk of a resumption of hostilities and a consequent worsening of
Armenia's economic isolation. Prospects of a regional boom linked to the development of the transit
potential of the Transcaucasus, particularly for the export of Caspian oil, should mitigate this risk. All
parties are aware that their ability to capitalize on the benefits of such development will be enhanced by
an early resolution to regional conflicts. Moreover, economic recovery in Armenia has strongly
increased popular support for peace. Finally, there is a risk that the international community will provide
insufficient balance of payments financing in support of structural reforms, which would entail an
unsustainable level of poverty.
IV. Bank Operations
99.   The Bank's assistance program in Armenia has combined policy-based lending, with investment
operations, technical assistance, and Economic and Sector Work (ESW). Policy lending has provided
quick disbursing balance of payments funds in support of macroeconomic stabilization, price and trade
liberalization, and the initial phase of structural reform, notably privatization, financial sector reform,
and enterprise restructuring. Quick disbursing loans have included the US$60 million Rehabilitation
Credit (Credit 2685-AM, approved in February, 1995), and the follow-up US$60 million Structural
Adjustment Credit (Credit 2824-AM, approved in February 1996). The Bank's policy-based lending has
been supported by parallel provision of significant technical assistance, primarily through the US$12
million Institution Building Loan (Loan 3585-AM, approved in March 1993), and through the Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit, approved with the SAC in February, 1996.
100.  Investment lending began in 1994 with the US$28 million Earthquake Reconstruction Credit
(Credit 2562-AM). Since then, investment projects have been approved to support the rehabilitation of



-25-
the irrigation system (Credit 2667-AM; US$43 million), power sector (Credit 2666-AM; US$13.7
million) and road infrastructure (Credit 2776-AM; US$16 million). A Social Investment Fund Project
(Credit 2784-AM) in the amount of US$'12 million was approved in November 1995, to fund sound
infrastructure microprojects and alleviate poverty. A US$16.7 million Enterprise Development Project
(Credit N0060-AM) to provide post-privatization finance and technical assistance to the enterprise and
financial sectors was approved in December, 1996.
101.  Overall portfolio performance has been very good with all development objective and
implementation progress ratings at least satisfactory. Local project implementation capacity,
strengthened during project preparation through PHRD grants and pilot programs, has been strong.
Disbursement performance has been excellent, with total intended disbursements to date (as projected at
appraisal) matching actual disbursements. The Bank's relationship with the Government of Armenia has
been very good and is supported by an open and constructive dialogue at all levels. Broad consultation
of potential project beneficiaries and government officials has led to a strong consensus about the
composition of the World Bank program.
102.  In addition to lending, the Bank has also assisted the Government's policy formulation process
through ESW, including: a Country Economic Memorandum, an Energy Sector Review, an Agriculture
and Food Sector Review, a Banking Sector Policy Note, an informal environmental review, a Poverty
Assessment, a Public Expenditure Review, a Transport Sector Review, a Municipal Policy Note, and a
Country Financial Accounting and Auditing Review. A Private Sector Assessment, and an Electricity
Privatization Strategy are under preparation. A new CEM and a follow-up Social Protection and Poverty
Study are planned for FY98. Institutional Development Fund grants to improve public procurement
regulations and practices, to prepare a National Environment Action Plan, and to develop an action plan
to address the environmental problems of Lake Sevan are under implementation.
103.  Armenia joined IFC in March 1 995 and MIGA in December 1995. Over the last year, IFC has
worked closely with Armenian partners and external sponsors to identify potential private sector projects.
In the manufacturing sector, IFC is discussing projects in fruit juice and textiles. In capital markets, IFC
has offered to assist the Armenian government in reviewing the regulatory environment and potential
market for leasing, and has started preliminary discussions on providing a credit line to a private
Armenian bank. IFC is also reviewing a proposed private hydropower project, and is preparing a
technical assistance program to supporl. corporate governance in privatized enterprises. Although MIGA
has not extended any guarantees in Armenia to date, it is expected to become more active over the CAS
period, as interest by potential private investors grows. Two potential guarantees for major foreign
investments in the mining and beverages sectors are presently under preparation.
V. Collaboration with Other Donors
104.  Cooperation with the IMF on Armenia is very close and extensive consultation has taken place in
the preparation of both the first SAC, and the proposed SAC II. A three-year ESAF was approved in
February, 1996, and Policy Framework Paper (PFP) prepared jointly by the Bank and the IMF and in this
context. A second annual arrangement under the ESAF is under preparation, and is expected to be
presented to the IMF Board on June 23, 1997. An update to the PFP has been prepared in parallel, and
distributed to the Board.
105.  To minimize the risk of underfunding of the reform program and to facilitate coordination of
external assistance, the Bank and the IMF have organized Consultative Group (CG) meetings for



-26-
Armenia. A CG meeting was held November, 1994 to mobilize balance of payments financing to
complement the IDA Rehabilitation Credit and the STF from the IMF. A second CG meeting was held
in May, 1996 to mobilize quick-disbursing funds and investment financing, and yet another CG meeting
is envisioned late 1997 or early 1998. The Government's capacity for donor coordination is growing.
The Aid Coordination and Management Center (located within the Ministry of Economy) has proved to
be highly effective at organizing regular donor coordination meetings in-country and at disseminating
information on Government assistance priorities and donor programs.
106.  Cooperation between the Bank and other major donors is also excellent. The Netherlands, Japan,
the United States, the European Union, and Germany are cofinancing or planning to cofinance different
investment projects. The Bank, EBRD, and the Governments of Germany and the United States have
worked closely together on the energy sector reforrns, and will continue to do so in the future, to avoid
duplication and maximize the synergies of external support. The Bankc is cooperating with UNDP and
UNICEF in its poverty alleviation and social sector strategies.
VI. Recommendation of the President
107.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of IDA and
I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
August 1, 1997



Annex 1
Armenia: Main Economic Indicators                                                         Page 1 of 3
1994     1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
Real Growth Rate
GDP                                5.4%     6.9%      5.8%      5.8%      6 0%     6.0%      6.5%      6.5%      6.0%      6.0%     6.0%      6.0%
Private Consumption                         21.9%     9.2%      4.9%      4.2%     4.0%      3.5%      3.1%      2.4%      2.4%      1.8%     2.8%
Inflation (average)              5273.4%   176.7%    18.6%      7.9%      7.3%     6.8%      6.2%      6.2%      6.2%      6.2%     6.2%      6.2%
Inflation (end of period)        1884.5%    31.9%     5.7%      9.5%      8.0%     6.2%      6 2%      6.2%      6.2%      6.2%     6.2%      6.2%
Exports (GNFS)                              10.0%     14.2%     13.3%     7.5%     9.3%      10.4%     10.6%     9.7%      9.0%     8.4%      7.9%
Imports (GNFS)                              35.8%     9.9%      10.0%     6.0%     5.2%      5.3%      5.2%      4.9%      4.8%     4.7%      4.7%
1994     1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
As % GDP
Exports                           39.5%     23.7%    22.9%    23.7%    23.9%    23.2%    23.1%    23.1%         23.1%    23.0%    22.7%       22.3%
Imports                           79.5%     61.9%     55.9%    55.3%     55.5%     51.5%     48.0%    44.7%     41.5%     38.5%     35.9%     33.4%
Resource Balance                 -40.0%    -38.2%    -33.0%    -31.5%    -31.6%    -28.3%    -24.9%    -21.5%    -18.3%    -15.5%    -13.1%    - 11.1%
Current Account (Incld Grants)     0.9%     -18.4%    -15.4%    -13.5%    -14.3%    -12.6% - 10.5%    -8.1%      -6.8%    -5.9%     -4.8%     -3.9%
Current Account (Excid Grants)    -35.5%    -33.9%    -26.6%    -24.0%    -23.2%    -20.3%    -17.2%    -14.1%    -1 11.0%    -8.7%  -6.9%    -5.0%
Domestic Savings (excl Prv Transf)   -29.2%    -28.00    -25.9%    -21.2%    -19.1%    -15.0%    -10.3%    -5.6%  -0.9%    3.6%      8.1%     11.2%
Prv Transfers                      5.5%     5.1%      4.6%      6.1%      7.2%      7.1%     6.8%      6.6%      6.7%      6.2%      5.7%     5.7%
Domestic Savings (incl Prv Trn)   -23.7%    -23.0%    -21.2%    -15.1%    -11.9%    -8.0%    -3.6%     1.0%      5.8%      9.8%     13.8%     16 9%
Investment                        10.8%     10.2%     7.1%      10.3%    12.5%     13.3%     14.6%     15.9%     17.4%    19.1%    21.2%      22.3%
o/w: Public                      9.6%      6.8%      4.1%     5.3%      7.5%      7.3%      7.5%     7.6%      7.8%      7.9%      7.9%      7.9%
Government Revenue                27.7%     19.9%     17.7%     18.0%    19.4%     19.4%     19.3%     19.4%     19.5%     19.5%    19.7%     19.8%
o/w: Tax Revenue                 13.1%    12.7%     12.9%     14.6%     16.6%     17.1%    17.3%     17.6%     17.7%     17.7%     17.8%    17.8%
Government Expenditure            44.1%     29.8%     26.3%     24.7%    25.1%     23.4%     22.9%    23.1%     22.8%     22.5%     22.3%     22.1%
Fiscal Deficit (Incid Grants)    -16.5%    -9.9%      -8.6%     -6.7%    -5.7%     -4.0%     -3.7%     -3.6%    -3.3%     -3.0%     -2.5%     -2.3%
Fiscal Deficit (Excld Grants)     -28.3%    -13.5%    -10.1%    -8.8%    -7.3%     -5.0%     -4.1%     -3.7%     -3.3%    -3.0%     -2.5%     -2.3%
Base Case Scenario



Armenia: Balance of Payments (millions of US dollars)                                                       Annex  I
Page 2 of 3
1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005
Merchandise Exports (FOB)              2093    270 9    2900       305 4    323 0    355 7    403 2    460 1    521 3    585 8    653 4        725 3
NonfactorServices                       478      335       749      614      634       680      739      80.6      878      957      1039      1119
ExportsofGNFS                          25710    3044      3649      3668     3864      4237     4771     5406    6090       68t S    7574      8372
Merchandise Imports (FOB)              401 2    6726      7258     757.0    795 8    8373      8835      931 6    973.5    10182    10667       lg5
NonfactorServices                       1165     1234     1640      976      1015     1046      1085     1125     1175      1228     1283      1340
ImportsofGNFS                           5177    7960      8899      8545     8972     9419      9921    1044.2   1091.0   11410    11950    12525
olw Energy                             1599     1794     1936    2001       2050    2166      2283      2388     2487     2584      2685     2794
ResourceBalance                         -2606    -4916    -524 9    -487 7    -510 8    -518 2    -514 9    -503 5    -4820    -4596    -4376    -415 3
NetFactorlncome                          -68      -94      273      213       194      180       183      185      174       163      164       169
Factor Payments                        73       128       140      22.5     258       291      30.1     31.4      342      363       376      38.1
otw Interest                          73       128      14.0     22.5      258      291       30.1     314      342       363      376       38.1
o/w. ProfitRemittances                00       00        00       00       00        00       00       00        00       00        00       00
FactorReceipts                          05       3.4      41.4     439       452      472       48,4     499      517       526      540       550
PrivateTransfers                        360       65.0     740      950       1170     129.0    140.0    1550      1750     185.0    1900      2120
CurrentOfficialGrants                   2373      198.9    178.6    1630      1430     140.0    140.0    1400      1100      850      700       400
Current Account Balance (Incld Grants)   5 9     -237 1   -245 1    -208 4    -231 4    -231 1   -216 6    -190.1   -179 6    -173 3    -161.2    -146 4
Current Account Balance (Excld Grants)  -231 4    -436 0    -423 6    -371.4   -374.4   -371.1   -356.6   -330 1   -289.6   -258 3    -231.2   -186.4
Foreign lnvestment                       26       191      22,0     260      700       92.0     105.0    1150     1390      1570     160.0    180.0
Portfolio Investment                     0 0      0.0      0.0      120 0    150 0     100,0     0.0      0 0      0 0       0 0      0 0       0 0
NetLong-TermLoans                       41.1      722      1743     1773      101.2    103.7    1370      1051     674       589      457       65
Disbursements(exclIMF)                 417       1223     2284     219.8    1390      1517     1548      1285     1096     111.4    1059       812
o/w GAP                               00       00        00       00       362      414       743      389      217       255      277       140
Amortization(excl IMF)                  06       501      54 1      42.5     499      617       413      33.S     44.4      546      623       714
Other Capital Flows (Incl change in Arrears)  -27 0  75 0  62 4     -93.7   -100 0     0 0       0 0      0.0      0.0       0 0      0 0       0 0
Change in Reserves ( - =  crease)       -30 2    -74 8     -60 0    -32 7     -35 6    -5 0      -9 0     -20 0    -7 5     -14.0     -9 0      -8 4
IMF Credit                              23 6      45 8     49 3     46 4      45 8     -0 6     -16 4    -10 0     -19.3    -28.6    -35 5     -31 7
Memo
GDP (mil US $)                        651 1    1285 8    15916    1546.0   16160    1828.9   2068 0   23383    2631.6   2961.7   3333 2   37514
Average Exchange Rate (Dram/$)         287      406       415      488       531      531      531       531      531      531       531      531
Real Exctange Rate 1/                  100 0    58 6     48.9      54 2     56 1     53 9      52 2     50 5     48 7      47 0     45 2      43 6
Terms of Trade                         100 0    95 1     98 1      99 7     98 7      99 2     101 2    103 7    106.9    110 0     112 7     115 4
Reserves inMonthsoflmports             07        1.7      2.2      28        31       31       31        3.1      3.1      31        30       30
1/ Decrease - Appreciation



Annex 1
Armenia: Debt Indicators                                                                      Page 3 of 3
1994      1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005
TotalDOD(US$M)                                    199.8    423.5       615.5     8053      952.2    10312    11106    1187.5    1231.8    12584    1264.8    12429
Debt Service (US$M)                                787      62.88      68 1      65.0       76 3      91.4      878       75.1       979       119.5     135 3     141 2
DODpercapita($)                                    53.2      1128      162.7    211.1      247.6     2661      284.3      3016      3103      3145       313.6     305.7
Total Debt/GDP                                    30 7%     32.9%     38 7%     52.1%      58 9%     56.4%     53 7%     50.8%      46 8%     42.5%     37 9%      33.1%
Debt Service t GDP                                1.2%      49%        4.3%      42%       4.7%      50%       4.2%       3.2%      3.7%      40%        4.1%      38%
Interest/GDP                                      1 1%       1.0%      09%       1.5%      1.6%      1.6%       1.5%      1.3%      13%        1.2%      1.1%      1.0%
Debt Service / Total Exports                      3.1%      20.4%     16 8%     15 8%      17.7%     19 4%     16.7%     12 7%      14.8%     16 3%     16 7%      15 8%
DOD/Export                                        77.6%     137 6%    151.5%    196.1%    220.6%    219.0%    211.3%    201.1%    186 4%    1714%    155.9%    139 3%
IBRD Debt (US$M)                                   1.8       5.2       106       22.5      34 1       54.5      83 9      123.1     159.0     194.0     222.7      245.1
IBRDDebtServiceDue(US$M)                           0.1       0.2        0.5       1.1       2.3       4.0       5.2        72        11.0      156       19.5       19A
IBRD Debt/GDP                                     0.3%      0.4%       0.7%      1.5%      2.1%      3.0%      4.1%       5.3%      6 0%      6.5%       6.7%      6.5%
IBRD Debt/Total DOD                               0 9%       1.2%      1.7%      2 8%      3 6%      5.3%      7.6%      10 4%      12.9%     15 4%     17 6%      19.7%
IBRD Debt Service / GDP                           0.0%       0 0%      0.0%      0.1%      0.1%      0 2%       0.3%      0.3%      0.4%      0 5%       0.6%      0 5%
IBRD Debt Service / Total Exports                 0 0%       0.1%      0.1%      0.3%      0 5%      0.9%       10%       1.2%      17%       2.1%       2 4%      2.2%
IBRD Debt Service / Total Debt Service            1.3%       0 3%      0.8%      17%       3.1%      44%        5.9%      9.6%      11 2%     13.0%      14.4%     13 8%
IDA Debt (US$M)                                    5 2       93.7      180.6    270 6      303.6     362 5     387.6      412 0     436.5     457 6      474.6     485 0
IDA Debt Service Due (US$M)                        0.0       0.4        1.0       1.7       2.2       2.5       2 8        3.0       3.2        3.4       4.1       7 7
IDA Debt/GDP                                      08%        7.3%      11.3%     175%      18.8%     198%      18.7%      176%      16.6%     15 5%      142%      129%
IDA Debt/Total DOD                                2.6%      22.1%     29.3%      33.6%     31.9%     35.2%     34 9%     34.7%      35 4%     36.4%     37 5%      39 0%
IDADebtService/GDP                                00%        00%       0.1%      0.1%      0.1%       01%       0.1%      01%       0.1%       01%       0.1%       02%
IDA Debt Service / Total Exports                  0.0%       0.1%      0.3%      0 4%      0.5%       0.5%      0.5%      0.5%      0.5%       0.5%      0 5%       0.9%
IDA Debt Service / Total Debt Service             0 2%       0.6%      1 5%      2.6%      2.8%       2.7%      3.2%      4 0%      3.2%       2 8%      3.0%       5 5%
WorldBankDebt/TotDOD                               3.5%      234%      31.1%     364%      355%      404%       425%      451%      483%       518%      551%      58.7%
Preferred Creditors Debt (US$M)                   45.0      205.1      354.5     528 1     638.2     740.4     796.7      868.5     920.3     952 3      960 8     955 8
Preferred Creditors Debt Service Due (US$M)        0 7       4.3        7.5      14 1       19.0      23.3      41 8      38.4       60 0      80.6      98.3      101 8
Preferred Creditors Debt/GDP                      6 9%      16 0%     22.3%     34.2%      39 5%     40.5%     38.5%     37.1%      35.0%     32 2%     28.8%      25 5%
Preferred Creditors Debt/Total DOD                22 5%     48 4%     57 6%     65 6%      67.0%     71.8%     717%      73 1%      74.7%     75.7%     76 0%      76.9%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/GDP              0.1%      0.3%       0 5%      0.9%      12%        1.3%     2.0%       1.6%      2.3%       2 7%      2.9%      2.7%
PreferredCreditors Debt Service/Total Exports     0 3%       1.4%      1.9%      3.4%      4.4%      4.9%       8 0%      6.5%      9.1%      11.0%      12 1%     11.4%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service/Total Debt Service   8.5%   6.9%      11.1%    21.7%      24.9%     25.5%     47.6%     51 0%      61.3%     674%      726%       72.0%
Preferred Creditors include World Bank, IMF, and EBRD.
All debt is public or publicly guaranteed except a loan of $75 million from Siemens to Armentel.
All debt frigures reflect rescheduling of the two EU loans from 1992 and 1993 which are assumed to be paid off with a combination of grants and a loan from the EU
with no grace, 2 yr maturity, and interest rate of 0 5*ECU LIBOR
Total Debt and Debt service figures include the GAP which 25% of it is assumed to be financed through grants and the remaining 75% through borrowing at 12 yr maturity, 2 yr grace and 3% interest rate
Base Case Scenario



'LUP2U1b8 -
PRIME MINISTER            ...
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn   . .
President                        -.
International Bank for    *.,
Reconstruction and Developiuwut            ,
.l~ M         fs   
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn       ,, r,
The attached letter of Pe J0pJ  st            the program. of macroeconomic
stabilization and structural re +fO j"bf Armenia. We request the World
Bank to support this pro   i?J    r    a     l  Adjustment Credit of USS 60
million.
The program of measuresin                      achieve the rapid resumption of
economic growth within a     ;        i c   fiamework. If adjustments and
corrective measures are reu                     of the implementation of the
program we will, where appro    pr o        nasures with the World Bank.
-X                nia



Annex 2
Page 1 of 12
Republic of Armenia
Letter of Development Policy
1.    The main objectives of the Government's economic program are to consolidate the
stabilization gains achieved through 1996 and to strengthen prospects for sustained economic
growth over the medium term. To this effect, the Government is committed to maintaining its
prudent macroeconomic policy stance, while continuing to deepen the comprehensive systemic
reforms already underway. The Government recognizes that further fiscal consolidation, and
continued progress on privatization, financial sector reform and energy sector restructuring, are
necessary underpinnings to continued economic growth. At the same time, the Government is
firmly committed to ensuring that the continued costs of transition are socially sustainable, and
to preserving Armenia's highly educated and skilled workforce. In this context, the Government
intends to make the reform of health and education a high priority in its reform program.
Macroeconomic Stability
2.    The Government's macrorconomic policies aim to maintain annual inflation (on an end-
period basis) below 10 percent, increase real GDP by 6 percent, and increase the CBA's gross
external reserves to an equivalent of 2.8 months of imports of goods and non-factor services by
the end of the year. These objectives will be achieved through continued tight fiscal and
monetary policies, and through efforts to promote export growth and contain the current account
deficit. The fiscal deficit is targeted to decline to 6.7 percent of GDP in 1997 and to 5.7 percent
in 1998, leading to an increase in domestic savings and freeing up resources for private
investment. Deficit reduction will be achieved through a combination of improved tax
performance and modest reductions in current expenditures. Increased domestic savings will
allow for a slight improvement in the current account deficit, which is expected to decline to 24
percent of GDP (excluding official grants) in 1997. The exchange rate regime will remain
flexible. In the face of depreciation pressures, the CBA will tighten credit policies and will use
reserves to smooth the exchange r ate path only as long as the reserve target is not at risk.
Tax and Trade Policy
3.    Further fiscal consolidation hinges on the Government's capacity to increase revenues
while improving the efficiency of public spending through better prioritization of expenditures
and increased-cost-recovery. The Government intends to increase tax revenues to 14.6 percent
of GDP in 1997, mainly through improved tax and customs administration and through efforts to
clear up tax arrears. The program of computerization of the tax and customs offices (supported
by technical assistance from the WMorld Bank) will be completed during 1997, enabling the State
Tax Inspectorate and the Customs Department to improve enforcement of tax collection. In
addition, the Customs Department is undertaking a program to strengthen its capacity to combat
customs fraud. With assistance from UNCTAD, customs procedures are being reviewed, a
department to investigate fraud has been created, and special anti-smuggling units will be
established. These efforts are an integral part of the customs revenue enhancement strategy that
is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and which is to be finalized by
October 1, 1997.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 12
4.    On April 14, 1997, the Government lowered the duty-free exemption for goods
purchased abroad for personal use from $1000 to $500 per trip, and strengthened quantitative
limits on personal imports of cigarettes and alcohol. Amendments to the Law on Customs
Duties were approved in parallel, with the objective of increasing customs revenues and limiting
tariff exemptions. The revised Law maintains the two band import tariff structure of zero and
ten per cent. The most important change concerns the increase in import duties from zero to ten
per cent for all agriculture and food products, except wheat and baby food which remain exempt
from import duties. As part of its revenue-raising efforts, the Government has also introduced
presumptive taxation on tobacco imports, which covers VAT, excises, and import duties. The
Government also introduced a fixed rate excise duty on all imports of alcoholic beverages, so as
to avoid underinvoicing at Customs. In order to deter smuggling, the Government intends to
establish a system of excise stamps for all alcohol and tobacco products. Moreover, starting July
1, 1997, all small traders, restaurants and entities providing transportation services have to pay a
presumptive tax which will replace the VAT, profit and income taxes.
5.    On the expenditure side, the Government intends to give priority to productive
expenditures, especially to those on human capital (health and education) and to public
investment. These items will also receive priority in the use of privatization receipts. To
improve cash management, the Government intends to make the Treasury system fully
operational by December 31, 1997. With technical assistance from the World Bank, the
Government will also develop a program to strengthen public expenditure management.
6.    The Republic of Armenia is committed to join the World Trade Organization (WTO) and
to accept all disciplines and rules of WTO and implement them as rapidly as possible.
Negotiations to join are well advanced and are expected to be completed by end- 1997.
Legislation and implementation procedures related to all WTO agreements are being reviewed
and modified, including in the areas of trade-related intellectual property rights, services, trade-
related investment measures, and government procurement. The Government has made
commitments to WTO, pledging not to use quantitative restrictions and other trade inhibiting non
tariff barriers, and to impose a ceiling tariff of no more than 15 percent for all imports.
Energy Sector
7.    The Government aims to deepen the energy sector reforms already underway, by
building on the interrelated achievements of more reliable supply, improved payment discipline,
and the unbundling of Armenergo into separate power generation, transmission and distribution
enterprises. Reforms will focus on applying the legal and regulatory framework introduced in
1997, beginning the financial rehabilitation of sector enterprises, establishing all sector
enterprises as joint-stock companies, and initiating their privatization.
8.    Legal and Regulatorv Framework. On June 9, 1997, Parliament passed an Energy Law,
which, inter alia, (a) separates policy-making, commercial and regulatory functions in the energy
sector; (b) creates separate generation, transmission and national dispatch, distribution
enterprises in the power sector; (c) allows private ownership; (d) establishes an independent
Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC); and (e) mandates that all energy sector enterprises be
licensed under the new regulatory framework within a given transition period. By November 1,
1997, the ERC will issue regulations defining a financial reporting system, based on
International Accounting Standards (IAS), to be adopted by all power and gas sector enterprises
for the purpose of tariff-setting, beginning on April 1, 1998.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 12
9.     Financial Strengthening. F'inancial discipline will be improved through measures to
rehabilitate the financial condition of sector enterprises, and investments in equipment and
services to strengthen their commercial performance. The Government has initiated the financial
rehabilitation program by: (a) discontinuing the Government guarantee to cover the unpaid
energy bills of Nairit Chemicals and authorizing the termination of supplies in the event of non-
payment; (b) requiring the drinking water companies to pay for an increasing share of their
energy consumption during 1997, wvhile guaranteeing a monthly payment by the budget to cover
part of the energy bills, provided the water companies pay a minimum portion of the bill; and (c)
allowing the energy supply enterprises to reduce supplies to drinking water companies in
proportion to payments not received for the previous month.
10.   A Financial Rehabilitation Plan for the power sector will be adopted by Government by
October 1, 1997. The Plan aims to recover all receivables of sector enterprises accumulated up
to April 1, 1997 (and including developments over April-July, 1997), and seeks agreements with
creditors which would allow poweir enterprises to retain sufficient revenues, after paying their
restructured debt-service and tax obligations, to cover at least operating costs. The Plan will be
based on an inventory of receivables and liabilities of power enterprises as of April 1, 1997, and
will define: (a) mechanisms to deal with bad debts and associated taxes and penalties; (b) a
schedule for the restructuring receivables and liabilities; and (c) mechanisms to arrest the growth
of arrears.
11.    Through better metering and enterprise management, actual collections from electricity
customers have reached 70% of supply (average for preceding three months), and are targeted to
reach 75% by December31, 1997 and 80% by July 1, 1998. Implementation of the financial
rehabilitation plan will allow a greater proportion of collections to be passed back to power
generators and fuel suppliers. Payments to the generation companies (average for all companies)
are targeted to reach 60% by December 31, 1997 and 70% by July 1, 1998. Since about 75% of
Armenia's gas supply is used for power generation, improved payments to the generators will
allow Armgas' average collections to reach at least 70% by December 31, 1997 and 75% by July
1, 1998. Furthermore, to limit distortions created by the excessive use of payments in goods, the
Government will limit payments in-kind in 1997 and 1998 to a maximum 25% of total
collections for electricity and 30% for gas. Starting August 1, 1997, no state-owned or
controlled entity will accumulate any overdue obligations on purchases of gas.
12.   Tariff Policy. According lo the Energy Law, regulated tariffs for electricity, gas and
heat tariffs shall cover reasonably incurred supply costs, including depreciation based on assets
valued in accordance with international accounting standards, and interest on borrowed capital.
By July 29, 1997, the appropriate Armenian authorities will review the cost structure of gas,
electricity and heat supply for 1997, including relevant actions under the financial rehabilitation
plan, and announce the revised tariffs, which will apply for the rest of the year. In addition, by
December 1, 1997, the ERC will refine the existing tariff methodology, review and approve the
cost data and investment programs of regulated enterprises, and develop a strategy to fully
implement the tariff principles defined in the Energy Law. Based on this tariff strategy, the ERC
will also announce tariffs and rates for each of the regulated enterprises, including capacity and
energy charges for power generatirn, which will become effective by April 1, 1998.
13.    Structure of the Energv Sector. The restructuring of power sector enterprises, will be
completed by January 1, 1998, by which time all enterprises will be established as joint-stock
companies. The sector will comprise 4 to 6 generation companies (of capacity >100 MW each);



Annex 2
Page 4 of 12
I national transmission (consisting of substations and lines >35 kVf) and dispatch company; and
11 distribution companies, including 1 distribution company for Yerevan. The Yerevan
distribution company and the transmission/dispatch company will be licensed under the new
regulatory framework by April 1, 1998. All other power enterprises will be licensed under the
new framework by October 1, 1998.
14.    Energv Sector Privatization. The Government will prepare and adopt its privatization
strategy for the power and gas enterprises by December 1, 1997. This strategy will define the
companies and assets to be privatized, level of ownership to be retained by the state, method of
sale, and the privatization schedule. The sale methodology will incorporate an important role for
strategic investor privatization by international tender in order to maximize investment
prospects, and the transfer of technology and expertise. In order to attract private capital at the
best terms, by April 1, 1998, the Government will contract internal'ional financial advisors to
represent the Government's interest in implementing the privatization strategy. Privatization of
the energy sector enterprises will begin in 1998, and is expected to be substantially completed by
2000.
Irrigation and Drinking Water
15.   Irrigation. Armenia's irrigation system, designed to meet the needs of large farms with
little concern for the cost of providing water, does not meet today's requirements of smaller land
holdings and higher energy prices. Tariffs do not reflect costs-in particular, the large
differentials between the costs of supplying gravity-fed regions and those that require the
pumping of water. As a result, the financial situation of the Operation and Maintenance
Enterprise for Irrigation Water (OME) is precarious. This, in turn, has led to severe asset
depletion and declining service quality. The Government has therefore initiated fundamental
reforms in the sector. A comprehensive restructuring program-comprising measures to ensure
the financial sustainability of the sector, institutional reforms, and rehabilitation of the
network-is being implemented.
16.    The Government is committed to making the Operation and Maintenance Enterprise for
irrigation water (OME) a financially viable enterprise capable of allocating sufficient resources
for the maintenance of the irrigation system. To this effect, a strategic plan-aimed at ensuring
OME is self-financing by the end of the year 2000-is being prepared, and will be approved by
Government by October 1, 1997. The plan includes measures to: restructure OME's outstanding
debt to the energy sector and to the budget; revise the water charges schedule to reduce cross
subsidies to high costs zones; increase average tariffs to meet at leaLst operations and
maintenance costs by 1999; and introduce improved financial management practices. As a first
step towards improving the financial viability of OME, the Government will announce (by
March 1, 1998) a revision in the average irrigation water tariff in line with the financing strategy.
The tariff revision will differentiate between low and high cost zones of water supply to reduce
the cross-subsidy.
17.    The existing institutional set-up of one large operation enterprise managing irrigation
water throughout the delivery chain does not meet the requirements of the smaller land holdings
and decentralized structure of agriculture. The Government is committed to a policy of
transferring tertiary and on-farm levels of the irrigation system frorn OME to village-level
government and to water users associations (WUA). This transfer will give water users greater
control over water resources, greater confidence in the stable supply of irrigation water, and



Annex 2
Page 5 of 12
hence will increase the willingness to pay for water. These financial and institutional reforms
will be complemented by an investrnent program to reduce water losses and improve the safety
and reliance of the irrigation network.
18.   Drinking Water. Availability of drinking water has deteriorated sharply over the last ten
years, as evidence by the poor condition of collection and distribution networks, the unreliable
supply at the household level, and the deteriorating quality of drinking water. The Government
is currently designing a comprehensive reform program for the sector. The two core objectives
of the program are: (i) to improve service provision through institutional reform, commercial
operation of the networks, and investments to reduce losses; and (ii) to improve the financial
viability of the sector through appropriate pricing and payment policies. The program will be
gradually implemented over the next three years. During 1997, priority will be given to the
following measures:
*  Institutional Reform. The Government has initiated the process of institutional change by
dividing the regional drinking water sector into one wholesale operator responsible for bulk
water supply, and about 40 retail companies established at the municipal level. A similar
process will be completed for the Yerevan drinking water sector by September 1, 1997. By
September 1, 1997, the Government will establish a regulatory commission, charged with
developing the principles for tariff setting in the sector. This commission will prepare a
concept paper for the water secitor, which would cover: (i) the principles for tariff setting
and licensing in the sector; (ii) the modalities for contractual arrangements between
wholesalers and retailers; (iii) and the scope for management contracts and for private
operation and investment in the network. Prior to second tranche release, the regulatory
commission will revise the cosl structure of drinking water supply, and announce the new
tariffs to be implemented starting in January, 1998.
- Financial Restructuring. By December 1, 1997, the Government will adopt a financing
strategy for the drinking water sector which will be implemented over the period 1997-1999.
This strategy will address issues related to: schedule for tariff adjustments, collection
policies and targets, debt restructuring, accounting and financial controls, and maintenance
and investment decisions. As a first step to improve the financial viability of the sector,
average collections for supply of drinking water are targeted to reach 55% of supply by
December 31, 1997.
Banking Sector Restructuring
19.    During 1996, the Government and the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) made
considerable progress in laying the legal and institutional framework for a sounder banking
sector. In particular, the authorities achieved the promulgation of modem new laws on the
Central Bank, On Banks and Banking Activity and on the Bankruptcy of Banks, as well as a
greatly strengthened Law on Commercial Bankruptcy. These efforts were reinforced by the
introduction and strenuous enforcement of a new loan-loss provisioning regime in commercial
banks. This development was supported by an increase in the minimum total capital in banks,
which presently stands at $350,000, and is to gradually increase to $1 million by 2000. Banking
supervision was further strengthened through on-site examinations in all banks, and by the
gradual convergence of prudential standards to Basle recommendations, especially as regards
capital adequacy. An initial restructuring program for the Savings Bank was implemented, and
on-site examinations and audit work completed. During 1997, the CBA intends to continue its



Annex 2
Page 6 of 12
intensive monitoring of the Savings Bank's efforts. In parallel, the Government will prepare
(with technical assistance from the World Bank) a privatization strategy for the Savings Bank,
and will initiate its implementation by early 1998.
20.   These foundations make it possible to take on the complex task of restructuring at least
some of the large former state banks in the system, which for some years have been seriously de-
capitalized and managerially weak. To this end, in-depth resolutions of the Board of CBA were
made in February 1997 (with follow-up resolutions in May and July, 1997) in respect of three of
these banks, namely Ardshinbank, Armagrobank, and Armeconombank. In all three cases, the
banks have been required to find new capital injections and to take other actions, such as
restraints on dividends, in order to bring capital levels into compliance with prudential
requirements. To date, Armagrobank and Armeconombank are achieving broad compliance with
capital adequacy and other program targets. The CBA is supporting the self-help efforts of
Armagrobank by making available a systemic longer term loan, which will compensate, in part,
for a large overhang of bad loans. The bad loans in turn are being subject to intensive recovery
efforts by the bank itself, with some success.
21.    The CBA Board has given all three banks specific deadlines by which improved capital
positions need to be achieved. If one or more of the banks fail to achieve the targets set for them
at that time or at any time thereafter, the CBA will not hesitate to initiate the bankruptcy of the
banks in question.
22.   The final important target for 1997 is to move the majority of the banks to full IAS
accounting systems. During 1997, there will be an intensive training and hands-on advisory
effort designed to enable the majority of banks to introduce IAS accounts. This initiative will be
supported by a CBA Resolution (agreed with the Ministry of Finaince and Economy), to be
adopted by October 1, 1997, and which will authorize those banks which are able to do so to use
IAS accounting as their main basis for official reporting from January 1998 onward.
Private Sector Development
23.   Privatization. The Government has continued to make progress on privatization. As of
July 16, 1997 the Government had privatized (defined as signed sales agreements) over 4,700
small enterprises, with another 1000 small enterprises in process of privatization. All remaining
small enterprises in the Privatization Program are to be privatized this year. As of July 16, 1997
1,346 medium and large enterprises had been offered for sale. Approximately 200 small
enterprises and 100-120 medium and large enterprises will be privatized per month, until the
1996-1997 Program is completed (by December 31, 1997).
24.   Following approval by Parliament, the 1998 Privatization Program will be implemented
starting in January, 1998. All the remaining medium and large enterprises to be privatized (some
180) will comprise this program, including energy sector enterprises, remaining state bread
sector enterprises, hospitals and others. Most privatizations will take place through public
auctions. The Government also intends to sell some enterprises to strategic investors, such as
some of the energy sector companies, transport companies and possibly others. In addition, the
Government will select a minimum of 3 enterprises for an initial public offering (IPO) of shares
for cash and will adopt any necessary regulations to conduct such sales. The Government will
contract an international financial advisor to prepare the enterprises and act as underwriter.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 12
25.    The Government is aware that not all enterprises will be successfully privatized and that
it is essential to ensure quick and orderly exit procedures for those that fail to be sold. The
Privatization Law specifies that if an enterprise fails to sell after two attempts at privatization, it
will be liquidated. To expedite the privatization and liquidation process, the Government will
submit to Parliament an amendment to the Privatization Law to introduce a time limit of not
more than 90 days for the second attempt at privatization, or, if a second attempt at privatization
has failed, not more than 90 days for the initiation of liquidation. While fewer than 1% of
enterprises have failed to sell after a second attempt, the Government intends to use liquidations
for those enterprises as a means of freeing any assets of the enterprise.
26.    The strategic investor privatization program is proceeding, with offering memoranda
available for all ten enterprises and marketing currently underway. The Government is
committed to successfully privatizing these enterprises, or if no privatization offers are approved,
to initiating reorganization or liquidation procedures for those enterprises in accordance with the
applicable laws of the Republic of Armenia.
27.    Property Rights. The Government recognizes the importance of laying a solid
foundation for property rights on which the smooth functioning of a market economy is based.
Thus, in December 1995, the Parliament passed a Law On Real Property which carefully protects
the rights of property owners. Basic registration of initial property rights in real estate has been
proceeding through the issuance of deeds. However, in order to make these property rights in
real estate more easily tradable, the Government recognizes that a unified registry of rights to
land and other real estate and the transactions and encumbrances which pertain to this real estate
should be established. To this end, the Government issued a decree in July 1997 which defines
the ministerial responsibility for the real property registration system. This will be followed by a
Law on Registration of Real Property Rights which will be submitted for approval to Parliament
by November 1, 1997. This law wvill define the procedures and standards which will govern the
registration system, guarantee ease of access to the base of information of property rights
embodied in the registry, and specify the responsibility of the state to maintain the accuracy of
the information in the registry.
28.    The Government will review the property and land tax system, and present to Parliament
all necessary modifications to foster the development of a land market. The Government also
intends to design and/or amend, by December 1, 1997, all necessary legislation to give
enterprises the right to purchase the land they occupy. By December 1, 1997, the first part of
the Civil Code and legislation governing the treatment of secured transactions will be submitted
to Parliament.
29.   Judicial Reform. The Government has consistently pursued the judicial reforms
designed to establish a fair and effective judiciary, that adequately meets the needs of a market
economy. In this context, an ambitious program of legal and judicial reforms was approved by
Presidential Decree on February 27, 1997. Under the program, a number of bills will be adopted
by Parliament in 1997-1998, including a Law on Enforcement of Court Judgments and Awards, a
Law on Arbitration tribunals and Arbitration Procedures, and a Law on Status f Judges.
Bankruptcy issues constitute an important and indispensable component of the economic
reforms. Therefore, training programs in bankruptcy law and procedure will be organized for
law professionals. Expeditious and effective execution of judicial awards will also be addressed
within the frame of the reforms.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 12
Capital Markets
30.    Thus far, the Government has focused on establishing the main legal and regulatory
pillars for capital market development. However, much work remains to be done-in finalizing
the overall legal and policy framework; in developing and strengthening the supporting
institutions needed for the growth of capital markets; and in creating the environment to attract
market activities.
31.    The Government recently adopted a decree which states that companies with more than
50 shareholders must register their shareholders with the National Central Registry within 30
days and must issue their shares to shareholders of record within 90 days. It is intended that
these steps will protect minority shareholder rights as well as provide an initial building block
for secondary market activity. In addition, in order to stimulate secondary trading of Treasury
instruments, the Government will submit legislation to Parliament to equalize the tax treatment
of Government securities held to maturity and those sold before maturity.
32.    To ensure a coordinated approach to the development of both capital markets legislation
and institutions, the Government will prepare a comprehensive strategy for capital markets
development. This strategy will focus on specific actions and resources required to establish and
make operational: a Capital Markets Regulatory Authority; stock exchange trading, clearing and
settlement; depositary institutions; institutional investors such as investment funds, insurance
companies and others; commodity exchange(s); brokerages; and other important market needs
and participants. Included in this strategy will be an assessment of the three existing stock
exchanges, a determination of the strengths and weaknesses of these exchanges, and suggested
concrete measures to address these weaknesses. These findings will be incorporated into the
design of the strategy. The strategy paper will be submitted to the Government by December 1,
1997.
33.   In order to provide the adequate legal basis for the development of capital market
activities, by May 1, 1998, a law(s) on securities and the capital[ markets regulatory authority,
which will provide for the establishment of an independently-ftnctioning regulatory agency will
be enacted. This regulatory authority will be established and the officials or chief regulator
appointed by July 1, 1998. Technical assistance will be provided to assist with the preparation of
the law(s) and any of the secondary regulations required.
34.    Once the institutional framework is in place, the Government plans to utilize initial
public offerings as a means of privatization for a minimum of 3 selected, high quality
enterprises. Such sales are meant to provide a demonstration effect to other privatized
enterprises on the advantages of listing and trading of shares, as well as provide a supply of
quality equity securities to "jump-start" the development of the market.
Social Assistance and Social Insurance
35.    Targeting of Social Assistance. The Government of Armenia is committed to the
principle of social equity in the distribution of social benefits, meaning that only the needy
should receive cash and in-kind benefits financed by the state budget. The Government is well
aware, however, of the formidable difficulties it faces in accurately targeting social benefits
given the unusual and changing nature of poverty in Armenia. ln the very short run, the
Government will continue to rely on a categorical approach to dletermine eligibility for existing



Annex 2
Page 9 of 12
social transfers, while attempting to improve the targeting of such benefits. In the medium-term,
the Government remains commilted to the goal of relying primarily on a single means-tested
poverty benefit to protect vulnerable groups in society.
36.   The 50% exemption on e lectricity tariffs granted to "privileged groups" was removed as
of June 9, 1997. This exemption has been replaced with a cash transfer to a more narrowly
defined group of beneficiaries chosen on the basis of vulnerability (rather than "privilege"), and
with a life-line for the first 100 kWh of electricity available to all households at a reduced tariff.
Similarly, all tariff exemptions for transport and communal services have been eliminated for all
but a limited number of categories, and replaced with a cash transfer to a more narrowly defined
group of beneficiaries perceived to be particularly vulnerable. As part of its efforts to improve
the targeting of social benefits, the Government has issued a decree restricting the payment of
child allowances only to highly vulnerable children, hereby allowing for an increase in the level
of the benefit received by needy families.
37.   In 1998, the Government intends to consolidate these various social transfers into a
single "vulnerability benefit" aimed at poor households. The move towards a single
"vulnerability benefit" represents an important step towards the Government's medium-term
objective of establishing a single means-tested poverty benefit as its main instrument of social
assistance. To this effect, by November 1, 1997, the Government will prepare (with technical
support from the World Bank) thie design of the new benefit program. Based on this design
work, the Government and IDA will agree on whether full implementation of the new program is
feasible by January, 1998, or whether a gradual introduction or pilot experiment prior to its full
implementation is needed.. A decree announcing the new benefit (and a schedule for its
implementation) will be adopted by December 1, 1997, and adequate financing for this benefit
will be included in the budget submission to Parliament for 1998.
38.    Social Insurance. The Pension Law adopted in December 1995 laid the foundation for
fundamental reform of the public pension system. The Government's intention when the law
was passed was to develop in parallel a regulatory framework for private pensions, which would
eventually supplement the state provision of a basic pension. However, the Government
recognizes that the work on private pensions must be done in conjunction with the development
(and as part) of a broader vision for the overall pension system. As a step towards implementing
a new pension system, the Government will prepare and adopt a strategy for pension reform, by
March 1, 1998, aimed at establishing a mixed system of pension provision, comprising a
publicly-managed, minimum olcl-age pension and private pension arrangements. The strategy
will include an assessment of the financial sustainability of the current public system, and any
short term measures required to contain Pension and Employment Fund (PEF) expenditures to
the level of expected revenues. As part of this strategy, the Government is preparing a schedule
for the development of the private voluntary and compulsory systems, which includes a
timetable for drafting the required legislation, along with the definition of the regulatory
framework that will govern the lunds and of the public institutions that will supervise them. In
addition, the strategy is to specify the mechanisms governing the transition to the new system.
39.   In parallel, the Governmlent is also preparing a plan for the introduction of individual
social security/taxpayer identific;ation numbers. The plan, which aims to introduce a unique
individual identification number to be used for all dealings with social security and tax
authorities, will be finalized by.lanuary 1, 1998.



Annex 2
Page 10 of 12
Education
40.    The Government recognizes that preserving Armenia's highly educated labor force is
key to the country's future economic growth. To this end, the CGovernment intends to make
reform of the education sector a priority in its overall economic reform program. In line with
this objective, during 1996 the Government initiated broad-based reforms in the education
sector. As a first step towards the consolidation and rationalizal ion of schools, the Ministry of
Education established a management information system integrating a comprehensive database
on school facilities and staff. In parallel, the Government initiated a process of increasing the
proportion of financing for general education within the education budget. A textbook strategy
to improve production and distribution of textbooks and reduce costs to parents was adopted, and
a pilot is under implementation to test the strategy on a small number of textbooks.
41.    The Government is aware that revising the financing mechanism for education is crucial
to improving incentives and increasing the overall quality and efficiency of the system. To this
effect, the Ministry of Education has adopted an education sector management and finance
strategy which lays the foundation for the comprehensive reforms to be undertaken during 1997
and 1998. The strategy identifies the priority areas for public arid private financing in the
education sector; establishes the basis for increasing the autonorny of schools; proposes new
financing mechanisms for different levels of education, including mechanisms to introduce per
capita financing for general education; describes the revision of norms and standards to improve
cost effectiveness of the system; and explains the approach to be taken in school consolidation
and reduction of staff in the education sector.
42.   Although the Government's strategy for the sector explicitly acknowledges the need to
increase private financing for education, it is also aware that education should remain a priority
for public spending. At US$9 per capita, public expenditures on education are very low by any
standards, and the Government plans to progressively increase expenditures allocated to the
education sector. Despite the tightness of the fiscal program, the Government is committed to
not incurring any arrears on education expenditures in the implementation of the 1997 budget,
and to ensuring that the share of appropriations to the education sector for the second half of
1997 is no less than 9.3% of total current expenditures. In line with the Government's stated goal
of making education a priority for public spending, the 1998 state budget to be submitted to
Parliament will increase the share of total expenditures allocated to education.
43.   In order to make schools more efficient and support private contributions from sponsors
and parents, the Government intends to provide more autonomy to schools. For this purpose, it
has adopted a decree which redefines the legal status of schools and school boards to, inter alia,
(i) grant schools autonomous status (in a phased approach); (ii) clarify the responsibilities of
school principal and school boards in school management and, in particular, as regards the hiring
of teachers and the implementation of the curriculum; and (iii) clarify the responsibilities of
schools and school boards in opening and managing bank accounts with private contributions
from parents and benefactors. In order to ensure the successful implementation of the textbook
strategy (which includes the creation of revolving funds for textbooks at the school level), the
government has defined special mechanisms through which all schools will manage a bank
account for the textbook revolving fund.
44.    The Government is aware that at present the education system is neither sustainable nor
cost effective. In order to rationalize the use of resources, increase efficiency and improve



Annex 2
Page 11 of 12
teacher salaries, the Ministry of Education and Science is carrying out an economic study
defining more cost-effective norms and standards to guide the rationalization process. This
study, which will be completed by August 25, 1997, will assess the potential costs and benefits
of school consolidation and rationalization of staffing, and will specify processes and
mechanisms to manage staff redundancy and the closure or transfer of surplus facilities. It will
provide: (i) detailed guidelines for Marz authorities on planning and implementation of the
rationalization program; and (ii) guidelines for autonomous schools on measures for improving
efficiency. All Marz education authorities will then be required to draw up their own detailed
rationalization programs, on the basis of broad local consultation, for submission to the Ministry
of Education and Science. These programs for the first two pilot marzes will be prepared and
submitted by December 31, 1997.
45.   To allow the number of boarding schools to be reduced, the Government will adopt, by
April 1, 1998 a strategy for reducing the number of children in boarding schools and other
specialized institutions. The strategy will include targets for the reduction of the number of
boarding schools, and will identify measures to improve the management of those institutions for
vulnerable children which will be kept under State financing.
46.   The Ministry of Education and Science will prepare and adopt, by April 1, 1998, a
strategy to reform technical education, so as to make the system more responsive to market
demands, and better adapted to ihe needs of a market economy. The Government will also
redefine the system of licensing and monitoring of private and public universities, in order to
ensure that the higher education maintain adequate standards of education and that it is
responsive to the sectoral reforms undertaken in Armenia. To this end, a decree on licensing of
higher education institutions will be adopted by January 1, 1998.
Health Reform
47.   The Government is aware that access to high-quality health care is essential to the well-
being of Armenia's population. In consequence, the Government is committed to improving
access to and quality of health care within the framework of the overall economic reform
program.
48.   The Government has takcen significant steps towards this goal. As part of its efforts to
reform public financing of health care, the Government has adopted a health financing strategy
which stipulates the creation of a State Health Agency charged with purchasing health care
services from both public and private providers. Work is underway on the design of the agency
and its operating procedures. Implementation will start in 1998 and the agency is expected to be
fully operational by 1999. The lprocess of transformation of health budget institutions into State
enterprises has progressed rapidly, and all secondary and tertiary facilities have been given the
status of state enterprises. Privaztization is also going forward, and most dentists, pharmacies and
a number of other health facilities have been privatized. Most importantly, the 1997 budget for
health care introduced, for the first time, a program budgeting approach based on a minimum
basic package of services entirely financed by the state.
49.   The Government recognizes that health care should remain a priority for public
spending. At US$9 per capita, public expenditures on health are extremely low (as compared to
a WHO-recommended average Df US$12-20 for low and lower-middle income countries).
Despite the tightness of the fiscal program, the Government is committed to not incurring any



Annex 2
Page 12 of 12
arrears on health sector spending in the implementation of the I 997 budget (to be monitored on a
continued basis), and to ensuring that the share of appropriations to the health sector for the
second half of 1997 is no less than 9.3% of total current expenditures. In line with the
Government's stated goal of making health a priority for public spending, the 1998 state budget
to be submitted to Parliament will increase the share of total expenditures allocated to health.
50.   To ensure that the new health financing system is operational in 1998, the Government
will adopt, by November 1, 1997, a new Basic Benefit Package (BBP) of services fully funded
by the State to be adopted as part of the 1998 budget. The BBP will be designed to be financially
sustainable and to reflect the costs of providing the services. The content of the BBP will be
improved to address the main burden of disease, as well as health conditions which have a strong
social impact. The BBP will also include full coverage of basic immunization programs
(financed by the budget along with humanitarian assistance), ancl will factor in an increased
relative budget allocation for primary health care services. The ]BBP will be redesigned to be
more cost-effective and, in particular, the number of beneficiaries receiving free care outside of
the minimum basic package will be reduced. By November 1, 1997, the Government will also
issue a decree and by-laws establishing the State Health Agency which will be responsible for
contracting health care providers for the delivery of the minimumn basic package. The operating
budget of the agency will be included in the 1998 budget submission to Parliament.
51.   In order to improve the effectiveness of the hospital sector, by March 1, 1998, the
Government will define a strategy for hospital restructuring that will allow for closing, merging
and/or reprofiling of public hospitals; privatization of hospitals; and re-licensing with the aim of
ensuring performance and quality standards. In parallel, the Government will privatize six
hospitals (already included in the 1996/97 Privatization Program), and will introduce private
management in two others. As part of these restructuring efforts, the Government will also
transfer the management of a hospital to an NGO, in order to improve quality and access to
health care for the poor. Patients would be admitted to the hospital on self-selection basis after
screening by the NGO.
52.   To ensure coordination between the health reforms and the education of health
personnel, the Government will define a strategy and an implementation plan to regulate medical
training. The strategy will be adopted by the Government by January 1, 1998, and will focus on
the following issues: restructuring basic and post-graduate medical training programs; licensing
medical schools, internship and residency programs and training sites; regulating enrollment into
undergraduate and post-graduate medical training programs. The Government will issue a
decree by March 1, 1998 defining the process, institutional responsibilities and implementation
schedule for licensing medical schools. Since the training of general practitioner is a central
component of the primary health care strategy, by September 1, 1997, the Government will
establish Chairs of Family Medicine in the National Institute of Health and the State Medical
University and a Coordination Committee for Primary Health Care Training. The training
process will begin during 1998.
53.   The Government recognizes that prevention is a important aspect of improving the
health status of the Armenian population. In this context, the Government intends to develop
some priority public health policies. By March 30, 1998, the Ministry of Health will develop
and adopt a national anti-smoking policy. In parallel, the Ministiy of Health will prepare a set of
measures to safeguard the implementation of AIDS prevention programs in the face of declining
external assistance, including measures to ensure the availability of testing kits.



Annex 3
Page 1 of8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY PROGRAM MATRIX
Note: Core conditions (board and second-tranche) in bold
OBJECTIVES                                  CURRENTSTATUS                                      MEASURES IN THE LDP
A. CONSOLIDATING MACROECONOMIC STABILITY
To consolidate a stable            Inflation reduced to 5.7 percent in 1996.                   Maintain agreed macroeconomic framework
macroeconomic environment           .        .                 .                               (IMF ESAF on track)
conducive to economic growth.      Fiscaltdeficrfell to 8.4 percent in 1996on tra
Current account deficit (excluding grants) declined to 26 percent   Annual inflation under 10 percent for 1997-99.
in 1996.                                                   Fiscal deficit to 6.7 percent of GDP in 1997.
| Maintained agreed macroeconomic framework (IMF ESAF        Current account deficit (excl. grants) to 24 percent
| approved and on track).                                  | of GDP in 1997.
B. IMPROVING FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE IN PRIVATE AND PUBLIC SECTORS
Strengthen Fiscal Framework
Increase Government's resource     Tax revenues recovered slightly in 1996 to 12.9 percent of GDP.   Complete computerization of tax and customs
mobilization capacity, through efforts  Tax revenues improved significantly during April-June, 1997.  offices.
aimed at expanding the tax base,
improving collections and solving the   One-time scheme for payment of tax arrears introduced.  All physical persons who trade in goods and
problem of tax arrears.            Revised Law on Customs Duties adopted by Parliament.        services to receive TINs and pay presumptive tax.
Maintains existing two band structure of 0 and 10 percent.  Treasury system to become fully operational by
December 31, 1997.
Improve budgetary management.      Negotiations to join WTO underway.                          Goverment to prepare strategy to strengthen
The duty-free exemption for goods purchased abroad wa      public expenditure management.
Maintain open and transparent trade    sowered from $1000 to $500 per trip, and quantitative limits    Negotiations to join WTO to be completed in late
regime.                            on personal imports of cigarettes and alcohol were          1997 or early 1998.
strengthened.
Amendments to VAT law to collect VAT on imports of consumer
goods at customs and extend credit mechanism to retail stage
were adopted.
Specific taxation on tobacco and alcohol imports (at equivalent
rates to existing ad-valorem levels) was introduced.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJECTIVES                                CURRENT STATUS                                     MEASURES IN THE LDP
Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
To deepen the energy sector reforms   Financial Strengthening. The Government issued a decree  Financial Strengthening. Complete and implement
initiated in 1995/1996, and build on    discontinuing the Government guarantee to cover the unpaid   (in a manner satisfactory to IDA) the Financial
the interrelated achievements of more  energy bills of Nairit Chemicals.                   Rehabilitation Plan. Increase collections from end-
reliable supply, improved payment    The Government issued a decree requiring: (a) the drinking   users paid to distribution companies to 70% of
discipline, commercialization and  wtrcmaisto pay for an increasing share of their         supply by December 1, 1997, and to 50% by June
privatization of energy sector    water companies   while foranteeing a  onth ent    1, 1998. No more than 25% of total electricity
enterprises,                      energy consumption while guaranteeing a monthly payment    collections in 1997 will be in the form of barter.
enterprises.             by the budget to cover part of the energy bills; and (b)
allowing the energy supply enterprises to reduce supplies to  Armgas' average collections to reach at least 70% by
drinking water companies in proportion to payments not   December, 1997. No state-owned or controlled
received.                                                entity will accumulate arrears on gas purchases.
A Financial Rehabilitation Strategy for the power sector  Regulatory Framework and Tariff Policy. The ERC
(agreed with IDA during negotiations) was adopted.       will issue regulations on a unified accounting system
Collectionsfromdto distribution c s  to be adopted by all energy sector enterprises (for the
Collections from end-users paid tdirbuoncompanies        purpose of tariff setting) by April 1, 1998.
reached 70% of supply by June 1, 1997.                   proeo aifstig  yArl1 98
Thne E>RG will develop a tariff strategy to fully
The 50% exemption on electricity tariffs for privileged groups  ilent  de  tariff    stdegy to fully
was eliminated,                                         implement the tariff principles defined in the Energy
Law, and will ensure that regulated tariffs cover
Regulatory Framework and Tariff Policy. An independent  reasonably incurred supply costs. Based on this
Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) was established, and the    strategy, the ERC will announce tariffs and rates for
main commissioners appointed.                            1998.
An Energy Law separating policy-making, commercial and
regulatory functions in the energy sector was adopted by
Parliament.
The ERC reviewed the cost structure of gas, electricity, and
heat supply, and announced new tariffs to be applied for the
rest of 1997 (average tariff increased from 17.5 drams/kWh to 21
drams/kWh).



Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJECTIVES                                 CURRENT STATUS                                      MEASURES IN THE LDP
.                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .  ......
Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
Regional distribution companies have been legally separated  Structure of the Energy Sector All power sector
from electricity transmission and generation. The 60+    enterprises established as joint-stock companies by end-
distribution companies have been consolidated to I 1.    1997. The Yerevan distribution company and the
transmission and dispatch company will be licensed
under the new regulatory framework by April 1, 1998.
Energy Sector Privatization. The Government will
adopt a privatization strategy for power enterprises,
and will contract financial advisors to assist in the
privatization.
Irrigation and Drinking Water
To strengthen payment discipline in   In 1996, the irrigation sector and drinking water companies were  Irrigation. Approve a strategic financial plan for OME,
the irrigation and water sectors, and    the biggest non payers to the energy sector, accumulating  (satisfactory to IDA) to ensure it is self-financing by
ensure the financial viability of sector  US$11.2 million of arrears on electricity payments.  2000. Increase the average irrigation tariff in line with
enterprises.                                                                                agreed strategy, and reduce cross-subsidy between low
Tariffs do not reflect costs, in particular, differences in the cost   and high cost zones of water supply.
of water supply to gravity-fed and pumped regions.
Drinkinz Water. Increase collections to 55% of
Tariff collection perfornance remains weak (average collection   supply by December, 1997. Raise drinking water tariff
rate is about 40% of supply for drinking water).         in stages to achieve full cost-recovery by 1999. As ad
irst step increase tariffs to cover full labor costs, plus a
sufficient share of electricity costs to meet electricity
payment targets, effective January, 1998.
Separate management and operation of sector into 2
wholesale operators responsible for bulk water supply,
and several retail companies at the municipal/regional
levels.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJECTIVES             |                   CURRENT STATUS                                     MEASURES IN THE LDP
C. ACCELERATING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Restructuring the Banking Sector
To restore the health and credibility    New laws on the Central Bank, on Banks and Banking Activity   Initiate bankruptcy proceedings for any bank that
of the banking system through     and on the Bankruptcy of Banks adopted.                  fails to achieve the targets set for them under the
restructuring of problem banks, and                                                        CBA resolution.
improvements in prudential        Loan-loss provisioning introduced and strenuously enforced.
regulation and supervision.       Banking supervision strengthened through IAS on-site     Adopt and implement a restructuring plan to
examinations and tightening prudential standards.        Ardshinbank (satisfactory to IDA).
An initial restructuring program for the Savings Bank    Prepare a privatization strategy for the Savings Bank,
implemented; on-site examinations and audit initiated.   and initiate its implementation.
The CBA approved in-depth resolutions on three problem banks
(Armagrobank, Ardshinbank and Armeconombank) establishing   Banks to move to IAS accounting basis by January,
specific targets and deadlines for total and core capital, along  1998.
with other actions to improve bank performance.
Completing Privatization
To foster the continued development   1504 medium and large enterprises, and over 4700 small  Achievement of progress (satisfactory to IDA) in
of the private sector, and lay the basis  enterprises have been offered for sale.          privatization, including completion of the 1996-1997
for sustained private-sector led                                                           Prog., approval and initiation of the 1997-1998
growth.                                                                                    Program, and submission to Parliament of
amendments to Privatization Law.
.  .      .                  ~~~~~~~~Initiate reorganization or liquidation procedures
Eleven large enterprise placed in a restructuring program have    (under the framework of the Law on Bankruptcy)
been liquidated or are in the process of being offered for   anyen    the    program tat is not
sale-six of them through international tender with the   for any enterpris in the program that is not
assistance of an internationally-respected investment bank.  successfully privatized prior to second tranche.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJECTIVES                                 CURRENTSTATUS                                     MEASURES IN THE LDP
Initiate privatization of power sector enterprises
(see above); privatize all bread sector enterprises in
1996/97 program.
Select a minimum of 3 enterprises for a pilot
program of privatization through initial public
offering (IPO) of shares for cash.
Clarifying Property Rights
To lay the foundation for secure   A Law on Real Property was approved in December, 1995.   Adopt a Law on Registration of Real Property
property rights and adequate contract  Basic registration of initial property rights in real estate is  Rights, which defines the procedures and standards
enforcement.                       proceeding through the issuance of deeds.                which will govern the registration system.
To support the development of a well-  The Government is establishing a cadastre system.     Amend relevant legislation (Real Property Law,
functioning land market, and facilitate                                                      Land Code) to give enterprises rights to purchase
the expansion of collateral-based                                                            the land they occupy.
lending.                           Adopted a decree on the unified registration of land and other  Review the property and land tax system, and
real estate, which decides on the ministerial responsibility for the  modify as necessary, to foster development of land
registration system proposed under the Law on Real Property.    market.
Submit to Parliament the first part of the Civil
Code, governing most commercial transactions,
and legislation governing the treatment of
collateral.



Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJECTIVES                                CURRENT STATUS                                   MEASURES IN THE LDP
Developing Capital Markets
To facilitate the reallocation of  A national share registry was established and is operational. An    Harmonize the tax treatment of government
property rights in enterprises while    Inspection and Market Supervision Commission has been set-up   securities held to maturity and those sold before
protecting those of minority      within the Ministry of Finance. Three stock markets are presently  maturity.
shareholders; allow market pressures   operational.
on enterprise managers and improve                                                         Adopt a strategy for capital markets development;
enterprise governance; and provide a   The Government has adopted a decree which states that  outlining actions and resources required to
source for equity finance.        enterprises with more than 50 shareholders must register all   establish and make operational the Capital Markets
shareholders with the National Central Registry.         Regulatory Authority, stock exchange trading,
clearing and settlement, depository institutions,
and other market needs and participants.
Adopt Law(s) on Securities and the Capital
Markets Regulatory Authority, which will provide
for the establishment of an independent regulatory
agency.
D. ENSURING THE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY OF THE REFORM PROCESS
Strengthening Sociai Assistance and Insurarnce
To improve the protection of the most  The 50% exemption on electricity tariffs granted to  Introduce a single "Vulnerability Benefit" to
vulnerable households, through better  "privileged groups" was eliminated, and replaced with a cash   replace the system of child allowances and
targeting and use of the available  transfer to a more narrowly defined group of beneficiaries  compensation for withdrawal of tariff
scarce funds.                     chosen on the basis of vulnerability.                    exemptions. Criteria for eligibility and/or
All exemptions on tariffs for transport and communal services  categories used in targeting the benefit will be
were removed for all but a limited number of categories, and   agreed with IDA, and adequate financing included
replaced with cash transfers to a more narrowly defined  in the 1998 budget.
group of beneficiaries chosen on the basis of vulnerability.  Prepare and adopt a strategy for pension reform,
aimed at establishing a sustainable system of
The Government adopted a decree restricting child        pension provision.
allowances to categories of highly vulnerable children.  Prepare a plan for the introduction of individual
social security/taxpayer identification numbers.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJECTIVES                                 CURRENT STATUS                                   MEASURES IN THE LDP
Reforming the Provision and Financing of Education
To reverse a trend of dropping    Cost-recovery throughout the educational system has      Increase the share of public spending allocated to
enrollments and deteriorating quality  increased- especially in higher education.          education in the 1998 budget.
in education, and help maintain                                                            Adopt a program for consolidation of schools,
Armenia's stock of highly-educated    The Government has reallocated spending towards general  and complete the plans for first two pilots.
human capital.                    educaion, and taken steps to improve production and
distribution of textbooks, and reduce the costs to parents.  Prepare and adopt a strategy for the reform of
To ensure access to a minimal                                                              technical education.
sufficient level of education services   A computerized database on education facilities was developed    Redefine the system of licensing and monitoring of
for all the population, and especially   and is fully operational.                         private and public universities to ensure adequate
for the poor.                                                       .                      standards and quality.
The Government has adopted an education sector management
and financing strategy, which identifies the priority areas for
public and private financing; establishes new financing
mechanisms; introduces per capita financing for general educ.;
and explains the approach to be taken in school consolidation
and reduction of staff in the sector.
The Government adopted a school charter on the proposed
status and governance of autonomous schools; and a decree
specifying the process to apply for autonomous status and
qualifying criteria.
The Government eliminated all expenditure arrears to the
education sector in the implementation of the 1997 budget.
In the revisions to the 1997 budget submitted to Parliament,
the share of appropriations to the education sector for the
second half of 1997 will be no less than 9.3% of total current
expenditures.



Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
ARMENIA: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJECTIVES                                 CURRENTSTATUS                                    MEASURES IN THE LDP
Health Care Reform
To improve the quality of health  The Government approved a Health Care Financing Strategy  Increase the share of public spending allocated
services, increase the efficiency of the  which reaffrms the Government's commitment to health care  to health in the 1998 budget.
health care system, and ensure access  reform and outlines plans to increase funding for primary health EsalhanmkeortialheSteHlh
to a minimal sufficient level of health  care, create a State Health Agency, continue with decentralization EsalhanmkeortialheSteHlh
services by the poor.             and restructuring of health facilities, and introduce a basic benefit  Agency.
package and new provider payment mechanisms.              Revise and redesign the BBP for the 1998
budget, to ensure it is financially sustainable
Al; secondary and tertiary health facilities have been given the  and reflects the real costs of providing the
status of state enterprises. In parallel, most dentists, pharmacies   services.
arid a number of other health facilities have been privatized.  eieasrtg  o  optlrsrcuig
bugtn    pefinaie asixtey o hospitals (icuedsnthc1996/97
The 1997 budget for health care introduced a program b e 7        sx h             in trce1
approach based on a minimum Basic Benefit Package (BBP) of    'r:at:ato Prga,,aditouepia
services entirely financed by the state. All other health care  management in two others.
services are being provided on a fee-for-service basis.   Peaenwrgltosfrmdcltann,t
of.  ensure that health care personnel can meet the
The Government has adopted a strategy to strengthen provision ofdemands of a reformed health care system.
primary health care.
The Government eliminated all expenditure arrears to the  Develop priority public health policies including
health sector in the implementation of the 1997 budget. In the  anti-smoking policies, and AIDS prevention
revisions to the 1997 budget submitted to Parliament, the  programs.
share of appropriations for the health sector for the second
half of 1997 will be no less than 9.3%  of total current
expenditures.



Annex 4
Schedule A
RE]PUBLIC OF ARMENIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time taken to prepare:                 9 months
2.    Prepared by:                           Government of Armenia with the
assistance of IBRD staff
3.    Preparation missions:                  November 15-27, 1996
March 1-15, 1997
4.    Pre-appraisal mission:                 May 13-22, 1997
5.    Negotiations:                          July 16-23, 1997
6.    Planned Board presentation:            August 26, 1997
7.    Planned date of effectiveness:         September 22, 1997
8.    Expected program completion:           March 31, 1999






Status of Bank Group Operations in Armenia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference                 Last ARPP
Original Amount in USS Millions                      Between expected        Supervision Rating b/
Loan     Fiscal                                                                                                                       and actual        Development  Implementation
Project ID      or       Year                Borrower                     Purpose             IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements a/   Objectives             Progress
Credit
No.
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
AM-PE-8278   L35850       1993    Government Of Armenia             INSTITUTION BUILDING        12.00        0.00             0.00            .75                  .75       S                S
AM-PE-8277   C26670       1995    GOVT OF ARMENIA                   IRRIGATION REHAB.            0.00       43.00             0.00         26.58                 -.32        S                S
AY-PE-35757  C26660       1995    GOVT. OF ARMENIA                  POWER MAINTENANCE            0.00       13.70             0.00           3.83                3.44        S                S
AN-PE-44387  C28250       1996    REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               STRUCT. ADJUST. TA           0.00        3.80             0.00          2.57                 2.71        S                S
AM-PE-35768  C27840       199b   KMbUU-iL 01O  AVn5iISA             SCrLAL LavnivST. Fium        0.00       i2.00             0.00           5.4;                2.2,        A
AM-PE-35765  C27760       1996    REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               HIGHWAY                      0.00       16.00             0.00           3.98               -3.52        S                S
AM-PE-35765  C27761       1997    REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               HIGHWAY                      0.00       15.00             0.00         15.33                 0.00        S                S
AN-PE-8279   CN0060       1997    REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA               ENTERPRISE DEVELOP.          0.00       16.75             0.00         16.12                 3.65        5                5
Total                                                                                           12.00      120.25             0.00         78.58                 8.97
Active Loans         Cl   Loansd5 Lft         TYtal
Total Disbursed (tIRD and IDA):                   49.93              152.52               202.45
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  132.25              148.00               280.25
Amount sold                                        0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               78.58                  .03               78.61
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S . satisfactory, U . unsatisfactory, HU . highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
0
ttcyn
GMWBW by the OMOMM lnfmmabm System (OIS)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:






Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Arnmenia at a glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Central   Low-
Armenia    Asia Income              Development diamond
Populaton mid-1995 (millions)                 38      488   3,180                      U
GNP percapita 1995 (USS)                      730    2,220    440           !fepect*ncy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                       2.8   1,084   1,399
Averge annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                1.2      0.3    1.7            GNP
Laborforce(X)                                 1.4      0 5     1.7
Per
Most recent estinmaW (latest year avadable since 1S88)                      capita
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population ( odtotalpopuebbon)           69      65      29
Lfe expectancy at birth (years)                73      68      63
Infant mortairty (per 1,000 /lve brths)        21      26      69                      Access to sae water
Child malnutrton (X of children under )         .          ..    41
Access to safe water (U of popwlatibn)         ..       ..    67
literacy (% ofpopuatbon ae 15+)                 1              34             -Armenia
Gross primary enrollment ( of scchoolage populatt  90   97    105  2Lowncome group
Male                                         87      97    112
Female                                       93      97      98            _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985    1994   1995 199 ai;    Economic retl/
GDP (bions USS)                         -     5.1      0.7    1.3    1.6
Groass domestic lnveslMenVGDP           ..   27.8    10.8   10.2    7.1
Exports of goods and non-factor servicast      ..    39.5   23.7   22.9
Gross domestc savings/GDP              ..   32.8   -29.2  -28.0  -25.9
Gross national savins/GDP               ..     ..    11.7   -8.2   -8.3
Current account balanceGOP (exd grants  .       ..   -35.5  -33.9  -26.6
Interest paymentslGDP                   ..     ..      1.1    1.0    0.9
Total debtVGDP                         ..      ..    30.7   32.9   38.7
Total debt servicetexports             ..      ..      3.1   20.4   18.8
Present value of debVGDP               ..       .      7.9
Present value of debtexports           ..      ..    79.0
1975-84 1985-9S    1994    1995 1996 of 1997-05      -Annenia
(average annual growth)                                                          -Low-ome grup
GDP                           -1.1  -11.4     5.4      8.9    5.3    6.1
GNPperceplta                    ..  -12.2     4.5      3.9    48      4.3
Exportsofgoodsandnh             ..      .     3.0    100    142       9 6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985    1994   1995 1996 o
(U of GDP)                                                                      GrvA    of ou,  and bwustined
Agricutur                              ..   14.7    435    42.8   38.3
Industry                               ..   55.3    35.8   34 0    31.9
Manufacturng                          ..      ...   25.1   24.0   22.6
Services                               ..   30.0    17.8   19.7   23.0    so
Prlvateconsumption                      .    464    117.7  115.0  1139    .30               0
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  20i8    11.5   13.0   120    Jo-
Imports of goods and non-factor servies  .      ..    79.5   61 9    55.9               -GD0   -a-GDP
197544 1985-95    1994   1995 1996 el
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                              .      ..   -12.0     5 2     30     G       d    .         and limo.b 1%)
Industry                                .       .    -20.0     1 6    2 2
Manufactunng                           .       .             2.5     2 5       40
Services                               ,,      .      70.5   194      91        30
Private consumpbon                     ..          ..  88    21.9    9.2
General govemment consumpbon           ..       .   -13.3   40 6       1.5       O l
Gross domesfic investiment              .        .    570      9.4  -224
Imports of goods and non-facor senvces  .       ..     5.0   35 8     9.9
Gross naional product                   .   -10.9      5.4     42      51                -rpx
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.
el Estimate



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Doineste prcew                         1976    1985     1994   1995 1996So   [tat1Uon (%)
(% change)                                                                     I 60oo
Consumer pnoes                                    5. ,273.4   176 7    186    4000
Implit GDP defltor                      04      -37   5,273.4   1612    195    xo+        
Government flnance                                                                 o 
(% of GDP)                                                                      -200-   90  *   i2  03  94  95  0
Current revenue (exci grants)             .       ..    15.8   16.2    16e2
Current budget balance (exd grants)       .        .    -18.5   -6.3    -3.5
Ovall surplus/deft (exd grants)           .        .    -28.3   -135   -10.1                -GDPdel --CPI
TRADE
(mMdfs USP                             1975    1985     1994   1995 1996 el  [   Export and Import level (mIN. US$)
Total exports (fob)                       ..      ..     209    271      290
n.a.
n.a.                                                                             4000
Manufactures                                             41      39      46      3,00 .
Tota Imports (ct                          ..       .     401     673    726        2.000
Food                                                    113    229    247        *,o
Fuel and energy                                         160     179     194         o
CapItal goods                                    .       14      2-      25             a o 91 92 03 94 *5 96
Exportpriceindex(1994-100)                *        *     100     108      113                   Expoirs   aImports
Importpnceindex(1994o100)                 *        *     100     113      115
Tern-noftrade(1994=100)                   ..       .      100      95     98                =-
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985     1994   1995 1996 of
(mEOns USS)                                                                          Curmet SccoINt balance to GDP radio
Exports of goods and non-factor sevices                  257    304      365
Imports of goods and non-factor servaes                  51S   796    890
Reource balance                           .       ..   -261    -492    -525
0
Not factor incorme                        .       ..       -7      -9      27    .1   o      aaaso
Net current transfers                    ..       ..      38      85      74
Current account balance,                                                         -0                      L
bebre offcial transfers                 ..       .    -231    -438   -424    40
Financng rtems (net)                      .       ..     238    465    434
Changes in net reserves                   .        .       -7    -29    -11
Memo:__
Reserves including gold (mdl. USS)        ..      ..      32     107     167
Convesion rate (bcaLS$)                   . 8.14E-03     96 3   252.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
19S5    1993     1984   1995 1996 el
(mrlone USSJ                                                                           ConoBrion of teta dt, 1ie
Total de  outstanding and disbursed       ..    134      200    423       O18                  (mAUSa)
IBRD                                    ..      1        2       5      11
IDA                                     .       0        5      94    181                      A
Totl debt servmce                         .       2         8     63       es
IBRD                                            0        0       0       1                              94
IDA                                    ..       0        0       0       1
Compositon of net resource flows                                                   E
Offidalgrants                          ..      78      237     199     179      164
Oflcbel creditors                      ..      87       41      72     174
Prhvate creditorm                      ..       0        0       0       0
Foreon direct nvesbnent                 ..      0        3      19      22                                c
Poritfol equity                        ,,       0        0       0       0            \e4
World Bank program
Commitments                            ..      12       28     149      79      A-IBRD       go          E-BIle
Disburements                           ..       1        7      92      92      B-IDA   D - O mutmllatersl  F - PtlSt
Puincilprepayments                     ..       0        0       0       0      C-UMF                    G - Shoat-
Net fows                                .       1        7      92      92
Inter stpaynents                        .       0        0       1       2
Nettrmnafers                           ..       1        S      91      91
International Econo s Department
Note: Estiumate for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncerainty.
et Estimate






IMAGING
Report No.: P      7182   AM
Type:     MOP



