Report No. PID5092
Project Name                     Armenia-Second Structural Adjustment (@&)
Credit (SAC II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       AMPE44796
Borrower                         Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy
Government House
Republic Square, Yerevan
Tel:     (3742) 151-069
Fax:     (3742) 151-736
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           6/7/97
Projected Appraisal Date         6/97
Projected Board Date             8/28/97
Country and Sector Background
1.      Against a background of political and economic adversities,
and with external financing support from the IMF and the World
Bank, Armenia has made huge strides in reforming its economy and in
establishing a suitable policy framework. The stabilization
program, sustained since Spring 1994, has brought down the budget
deficit to 7 percent of GDP in 1996, less than a sixth of the 1993
figure. Annual inflation has fallen to under 8 percent. And after
years of collapse, GDP grew by 5.4 percent in 1994 and by nearly 7
percent in 1995. According to provisional estimates, GDP grew
further by 6.3 percent in 1996.
2.      The core of the Government's reform program has been the
stimulation of the private sector. Almost all agricultural land was
privatized in 1991, making Armenia the first country to do so in
the former Soviet Union. Privatization of enterprises started
later, but has proceeded quickly, with over 4000 small enterprises
and about 1000 medium and large enterprises privatized to date
(about 60t of the total). Prices have been liberalized, and most
consumer subsidies, including that on bread, have been removed.
State trading arrangements have been eliminated, and the foreign
exchange and trade regime liberalized (Armenia is likely to be the
first CIS country to accede to the WTO). Most restrictions on the
emerging private sector have been dismantled, and laws on real
property, banks and banking, bank insolvency and commercial
bankruptcy have been adopted.
The Country's Reform Program
3.      The main objectives of the Government's economic program are



to consolidate the stabilization gains achieved through 1996 and to
strengthen prospects for sustained economic growth over the medium
term. To this effect, the Government is committed to maintaining
its prudent macroeconomic policy stance, while continuing to deepen
the comprehensive systemic reforms already underway. The Armenian
authorities recognize that further fiscal consolidation, and
continued progress on privatization, financial sector reform and
energy sector restructuring, are necessary underpinnings to
continued economic growth. At the same time, they are firmly
committed to ensuring that the continued costs of transition are
socially sustainable, and to preserving Armenia's highly educated
and skilled workforce. In this context, the Government intends to
make the reform of health and education a high priority in its
reform program for 1997.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
Objectives
4.      The primary objective of the credit is to support the
Government's program to consolidate macroeconomic stability and to
lay the foundations for sustained private-sector led growth over
the medium term. The program includes measures to: (a) improve
financial discipline in the private and public sectors, so as to
increase domestic savings, facilitate further external adjustment
and ensure Armenia's creditworthiness; (b) accelerate the growth
and development of the private sector; and (c) ensure the social
sustainability of the reform process and preserve Armenia's stock
of highly-skilled human capital.
Project Implementation
5.      The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II)
would be made to the Republic of Armenia represented by the
Ministry of Finance. The proposed SAC would be released in two
tranches: the first on effectiveness and the second on fulfillment
of the specific tranche release conditions, if general progress on
implementation of the LDP (including attainment of its
macroeconomic stability objectives) is also satisfactory. A task
force drawn form the central and line agencies, and coordinated by
the Ministry of Economy, has been established to monitor
implementation of the program.
Poverty Category
6.      The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit would
support measures to improve targeting of social benefits and
strengthen the social safety net. The program also includes actions
to reform the public pension system and to introduce private
pensions schemes, to ensure adequate and affordable long-term
protection to the elderly. The reforms in health and education have
as a primary objective to ensure equitable access to essential services.
Environmental Aspects
-2-



7.      The proposed credit will have no direct impact on the
environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, the proposed credit has
been placed in Category C which does not require an environmental
assessment.
Program Objective Categories
8.      The proposed project would contribute to the development of
Armenia through its potential impact on private and public savings.
The environment for the development of the private sector will be
improved, creating the conditions for it to become the engine of
growth. The assistance in improving the targeting of social
assistance and in reforming basic health and education will
underpin efforts to strengthen the safety net and alleviate poverty.
Contact Point:           Ana Revenga, Task Manager.
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 4, 1997.
- 3 -



