              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                       International Development Association
                                                                                                       87192
                         International Finance Corportation
                     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                      CONFiDENTIAL                                                                EDS97-31Z
                                                                                                            August 22;. 1997


  Board Meeting of August 26, 1997
  Statement by Pieter Stek
                                              ARMENIA
                                      Country Assistance Strategy,
                                 Second Structural Adjustment Credit,
                        Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit

   My Armenian authorities wish to express their strong appreciation for the Bank staffs work in
   preparing this Country Assistance Strategy. The analysis is very much to the point and the
   proposed strategy is fully in keeping with the Government's priorities and a sensible division of
   labour between the IFis and bilateral and private donors. I can confirm that the Armenian
   authorities agree that continuity of the Bank staff has contributed materially to the consistency of
   the programme and mutual trust (par. 41). If there is something my authorities regret, it is that
   the availability of IDA funds rather than the absorption capacity of the country is the limiting
   factor for the size of the programme. I)

   This being said, the Armenian government firmly intends to pursue the policies required to be
   eligible for the amount of World Bank funding envisaged in the high base case scenario.

   The Reform Programme and the Government's Priorities

   The Government's priorities are well set out in the CAS. For useful specifics, I draw attention
   to the Letter of Development Policy (LOP) of the Armenian Government (Annex 2 of the SAC
   document). The following additional comments may be made:

   a.     The Government is in full agreement with the need to raise the savings ratio of the public
   and the private sector. The impression may have been created in the CAS that ultimately a level


   1) Personally, I would add that the mention of the budget as another limiting factor (p.i) surprises me: Annenia is a
   case of a country with "an exceptional track record on reform" (p. 2; see alsop. 13 paragraph 30) and with a
   combination of good growth prospects but a very real po\'erty problem too. Economizing on the Bank Oroup•s
   efforts at first glance would not seem to be in accordance with sensible precepts for selecti\'ity




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otheiWise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                2


of the budget deficit of 3-4% is regarded as appropriate (par. 14). This, however, is a target to
be achieved by 2000~ table 2 (p. 9) indicates a significant further decline by 2005 in the strong-
reform scenario and such a further decline is in line with the Government's thinking. The
Government is undertaking a strenuous effort to raise tax revenue (1996: 12.9% GDP~ 2000:
17.1 %). As a result of administrative and legislative improvements, the tax revenues of the state
budget of the 2nd quarter increased significantly compared to the 1st quarter of 1997. The
evolution of tax and custom revenues, therefore, is showing measurable improvement. This is
essential because external grants will presumably decline. The effort is coupled with progressive
moves towards realistic tariffs for energy, water, etc. and the termination in general of
lossmaking business activities in the public sector.

On the expenditure side it is noteworthy that Armenia, since 1995, has conducted a stringent
policy of non-accumulation of arrears in the budget.

The Th1F programme provides for equality of the targets for the accruals and the cash basis
budget which prevents new arrears from creeping in. The Government, moreover, is now
devoting attention to the reduction of arrears accumulated in the energy sector, particularly in
internal payments for electricity supply. The Government adopted on July 30, 1997, a Financial
Rehabilitation Strategy for the power sector and a detailed implementation plan will be approved
by October 1997. The strategy aims at recovering receivables and at developing financial
restructuring plans for sector enterprises to enable their privatization, starting in early 1998.

b.      As for private sector savings, in addition to their anticipated recovery as growth
continues, the authorities realize that savings will be stimulated by the development of an
efficient financial sector. They hope that IFC will be an active partner in this and shed the
seeming reticence of the language in par. 62. In my own view, Armenia offers precisely the
kind of opportunities for which IFC should be watching. It would also be most welcome if
IFC's outreach programme could be expanded to include Armenia (and others). The
Government agrees with the other points made under heading B on p. 6, including the
importance of judicial reform. The government is fully aware <;>fthe importance of well
functioning markets within a sound legal and regulatory framework, including a competent
judiciary, for attracting foreign investment (LOP par. 30-34 and par. 29). It is moving ahead
fast, particularly in completing the regulatory framework, and with adequate technical
assistance, it will be possible to implement the framework created all the sooner and all the
better. The Government is currently working on a comprehensive strategy for Capital Markets
Development which will focus on specific actions and resources required to establish the
essential market institutions and the related legal and regulatory framework.

c.      The challenges to social and environmental sustainability are being met head on. The
reform of the health system, with all the complications inherent to this sector, is proceeding
apace. It is strongly focused on meeting essential needs of all through the new Basic Benefit
Package (LDP par. SO). More in general, the stress of policy on disease prevention and primary
health care will be strong. Great care is being devoted to creating sustainable financing
mechanisms at a higher level of public spending than the current inordinately low level. The
Government will also allocate more money as a matter of priority to education and focus the
                                                3


funds where they are most needed in order to preserve the traditional high standards which are
now under threat (LOP par. 40-46). The rate of repair of the damage sustained will, of course,
be partly dependent on the recovery of income levels and of fiscal revenue.
A major step on the path to sustainability has been taken by the drawing up of a National
Environmental Action Plan, which is still on track for finalization this year. Discussions with
Bank staff have been intensive over 1 1/2 years and have been crucial to heightened awareness
and ownership.

At the core of the Government's policy to sustain reform and of this CAS lies the envisaged
systematic approach to poverty alleviation. The Government faces a difficult problem of
targeting support for the poor, as is clear from the CAS document {par. 43 Box 4 and SAC par.
69-71). Together with the Bank staff, it is firmly resolved to deal with this problem and to
establish a means-tested single poverty benefit.

The Government realizes that part and parcel of successful reform is the maintenance of public
support for its programme including commitments to IFis. For this purpose it is intent on
improving public. information and will publish the LDP. The CAS itself has been widely
discussed not only with donors but also with NGOs and academia.

In conclusion, Armenia already has provided convincing evidence of being willing and able to
use external assistance to good purpose. It does not shrink from the challenges before it. The
fact that reform itself is not at issue between the major parties and that Armenia, as is correctly
noted in the CAS, is a cohesive society augurs well for continued growth, containment of and
emergence from poverty, and sustained reform.
