Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2980 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 2, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2980 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated July 30, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
Page  2
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Armgas" means the Armenia State Gas Company established pursuant to the 
Government Decree No. 99, dated March 2, 1994 and includes any successor or successors 
thereto;
(c)
"Basic Benefits Package" means a package of  health care services 
financed from the Borrower’s budget;
(d)
"1996-1997 Privatization Program" means the Borrower’s program adopted by 
the Law on Program of Privatization and Denationalization of State Enterprises and 
Unfinished Construction Sites dated March 20, 1996;
(e)
"1998 Privatization Program" means the privatization program to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(f)
"Financial Rehabilitation Plan" means a plan referred to in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the main principles of which have been agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-three million one hundred thousand Special 
Page  3
Drawing Rights (SDR 43,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 28,700,000 unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an 
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
Program;
(ii)
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken; and
(iii)
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program;
If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice to the 
Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 
ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and 
taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  4
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2008 and ending July 1, 2032.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2017 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Page  5
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Ruben Shugarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also 
that of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of such other country;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                    -
Alcoholic beverages
121                    -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122                    -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                    -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718                    718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728                    728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897                    897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
Page  7
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02(d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has: (i) adopted a Financial Rehabilitation Plan for the power 
sector; and (ii) achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of said Plan.
2.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that the 
rate of collection for payments from end users to power distribution companies 
(average for the three months immediately preceding the dates referred to in (i) and 
(ii) below)  has reached: (i) by December 31, 1997, seventy-five percent (75%) of 
total electricity supplied by  said companies; and (ii) by June 30, 1998, eighty 
percent (80%) of total electricity supplied by said companies; provided, however, that 
payments in the form of barter shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of total 
collections in the calendar year of 1997.
3.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that, at any 
time starting from August 1, 1997, no entities owned or controlled by the Borrower 
have accumulated overdue payment obligations on purchase of gas.
4.
The Borrower has: (i) adopted a privatization strategy for power sector 
enterprises satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) issued a letter of invitation 
for international financial advisors to assist in implementing said privatization 
strategy.
5.
The Borrower has: (i) furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that, 
by December 31, 1997, the rate of collection for payments to water distribution 
companies for drinking water has reached fifty-five percent (55%) of total water 
supplied by said companies; and (ii) publicly announced revised drinking water 
tariffs, satisfactory to the Association, such tariffs to be introduced from January 
1, 1998.
6.
The Borrower  has: (i) approved a restructuring plan for Ardshinbank adopted by 
its Board, satisfactory to the Association; (ii) reviewed the status of compliance of 
Armeconombank, Ardshinbank and Armagrobank with the total and core capital minimum 
requirements established by the Central Bank of Armenia; and (iii) in case of 
non-compliance, initiated bankruptcy proceedings for said banks in accordance with the 
applicable laws of the Borrower.
7.
In respect of the enterprises selected upon agreement with the Association, the 
Borrower has approved privatization offers or initiated reorganization or liquidation 
for said enterprises in accordance with the applicable laws of the Borrower.
8.
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in implementation of its 
privatization program, including: (i) completion of the 1996-1997 Privatization 
Program; (ii) approval and initiation of the 1998 Privatization Program; and (iii) 
submission to Parliament of an amendment to the Privatization Law of 1992 to introduce 
specific time limits for different stages of the process of an enterprise’s 
privatization and liquidation.
9.
The Borrower has submitted to the Parliament  Part I of the Civil Code and a 
Page  8
draft Law on Secured Transactions.
10.
The Borrower: (i) has adopted a decree introducing a new system of benefits for 
poor households satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) has included adequate 
allocations  in the 1998 draft budget for financing of such benefits.
11.
The Borrower has increased the allocations for the health and education sectors 
in the 1998 draft budget in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
12.
The Borrower has approved a revised Basic Benefits Package satisfactory to the 
Association.
