Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6672-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURMA
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
May 21, 1987
Energy Department
Petroleum Projects, Division I
This document has a restdied distibudion and may be used by repiens only In 4he performance of
ther offci dutes. Its contents may not othewise be dicosed wihout Wodd Ebnk autoiaiaon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Kyat (K)
Kl.00           =    100 Pyas
as of April 30, 1987:
K8.6349         =    SDR 1.00
K6.6104               US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                            -    0.159 cubic meters (m3)
1 British Thermal Unit (Btu)              -    0.252 kilocalories (kcal)
I cubic foot (CF)                         -    0.028 m
1 kilometer (km)                          -    0.621 miles
1 metric ton (mt) of oil (0.85 sp.gr.)  -    7.5 bbl
BCF                                       -    billion cubic feet
bpd                                       =    barrels per day
kgoe                                      -    kilogram of oil equivalent in heating value
MCF                                       -    thousand standard cubic feet
MMbbl                                     =    million barrels
MMCFD                                     3    million standard cubic feet per day
M4Mtoe                                    -    million tons of oil equivalent
MW                                             megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
TCF                                       -    trillion (1,000 billion) standard cubic feet
toe                                       -    tons of oil equivalent in heating value
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNG     Compressed Natural Gas
OPI     Council of People's Inspectorate
ECC     Economic Coordinating Committee
EPC     Electric Power Corporation
COB    -Government of Burma
GUS     Gas Utilization Study
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
IOC     International Oil Companies
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
LPG     Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LRMC    Long-run Marginal Cost
MOC     Myanma Oil Corporation
PGDP    Payagon Gas Development Program
PIC     Petrochemical Industries Corporation
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PPSC    petroleum Products Supply Corporation
SCADA   Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Except as otherwise specified, years in the report and annexes refer to the
GOB/MOC fiscal year from April 1 - March 31 (as of 1974).



FOR OMCAL Use ONLY
BURMA
GAS DEVELOPMENT MAD UTILIZATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers         Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiary:      Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC)
Amount:           SDR48.3 million (US$63.0 million equivalent)
Terms$            Standard
Onlending Terms:  The Government will onlend proceeds of the Credit to MOC at
an interest rate of 7.9% per annum, with a repayment period
of 20 years including 5 years of grace. The Borrower will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project           This first IDA operation in the petroleum sector would help
Description:      alleviate the growing shortage of petroleum, which has
hindered the growth of the Burmese economy, by supporting
further development of the Payagon gas field to provide
about 35 million cubic feet per day of additional gas to
substitute for diesel and fuel oil in the Rangoon area. The
project, which corresponds to Phase I of Burma's Payagon Gas
Development Program (PGDP), would support: (a) the
establishment of a sound gas pricing policy based on full
cost recovery as a minimum; (b) drilling and completion of
production wells, as well as installation of surface facili-
ties, and gas transmission and distribution pipelines for
Rangoon; (c) appraisal of additional reserves for Phase II
of the PGDP; (d) gas subsector investment planning; (e) oil
reservoir and production studies to evaluate options for in-
creasing domestic oil production; and (f) introduction of
modern petroleum engineering practices, technical assistance
and training.
Justification     The economic rates of return are 59% for the Payagon Gas
and Risks:        Development Program and 72% for Phase I of the PGDP (the
proposed project). The project's high economic return is
due to the low gas production costs, the high productivity
of the Payagon gas field wells, and the proximity of assured
markets for gas. The project would yield economy-wide
benefits by substantially improving commercial energy avail-
ability. Technical risks related to gas reserves are low
and would be further mitiimized by adequate seismic work
before or in conjunction with drilling so as to minimize the
number of dry delineation wells. The high importance
attached to this project by GOB should reduce the risk of
slow project implementation, especially as the project
itself will help alleviate the severe energy shortage in the
country.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Pro3ect Cost:
Eor!ia!   Local a/   Total
_--(US  million)--
Gas Field Development                                  20.5     13.0       33.5
Gas Transmission and Distribution                      19.0      9.0       28.0
Technical Assistance                                    4.7      1.2         5.9
Appraisal Drilling for Phase II                         5.0      3.0        8.0
LPGICMG Pilot Scheme                                    1.5      0.5        2.0
Base Cost Estimate                               50.7      26.7       77.4
Physical Contingencies                       11.7       2.9       14.6
Price Contingencies                           3.1       5.0        8.1
Total Project Cost                                65.5     34.6      100.1
a/   Local costs include US$15.8 million of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
Foreign   Local      Total
--…(- US(   million)-------
Loans:
COB                                                -      34.6       34.6
IDA                                              63.0       -        63.0
UNDP                                              2.5       -         2.5
Total                                            65.5    34.6       100.1
Estimated Disbursements:
US5 million
IDA Fiscal Year            1988    1999    1990    1991    1992    1993   1994
Annual             13.9    21.6    15.8      9.4      1.9     0.3    0.1
Cumulative         13.9    35.5    51.3    60.7    62.6    62.9   63.0
Economic Rates of Return
The Payagon Gas Development Program                                  59X
The Project (Phase I of the Program)                                 721



BURMA
GAS DISTRIBUTION AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pa8e No.
I,     THE ENERGY SECTOR .......................................          1
A. Introduction...         . .0...... 0000.0.....*..........0..    1
B.  Commercial Energy Supply/Demand Balance.............          2
Co Crude Oil0.0.0......., o.0000000000 .............              2
2o Production*.** o00*00040 0*0*0*0****0000*0e0*****X         3
3.  Petroleum Product Prices................. *  ....         4
D.  Natural Gas...................00.......                       5
1. Reserves and Production ........00**..*....0*... 5
2.  Payagon Cas Field..... o00000000000000000000000000        6
3. Gas Utilization...................00000*........           6
4A Gas Pricing ......00 0.0.0000o0000000000.000o..... 7
E.  Hydropower. 0000 0000000000000000000000....0...........       8
F.  Traditional Energy.................       .00.......          9
G.  Sector Institutions and Plannins....................          9
H.  IDA's Role and Lending Strategy ..................o..        10
II.     THE BMNEFICIARY           .....................                   11
A.  Introduction. ................................e.o.*          11
B.  The My0am Oil Ccrporation..........................          11
1. Organization and Capabilities...................          11
Co Accounits and .............A..........................        12
III.     THE PROJEC)X                   0      ..........                  13
A.  Project Objecte c t iv....................es..........        13
B, Project Rationale           ...         .. o.oooooooo         13
C. Project Description.................................          14
1. Gas Field Development and Appraisal Drilling....          14
2.  Gas Transmission and Distribution...............         14
3.  Technical Assistance, Studies and Trainingg.....         14
4.  LPG/CNG Pilot Activity.t i v i ty...................     15
D.  Project Implementation.ln                                    15
1. Development/Appraisal Drilling and Seismic
Acquisition.qu00i000000sa000000000000oe0n6000         16
2.  Gas Transmission and Distributionon.............         16
3.  Technical Assistance, Studies and Traininge.....         17
S.  Status of Project Preparation....................            17
F. Project Cost Estimates....                                    18
G.  Financing Pl..                                               20
H.  Procurement....e*. .      .. .*...........,..0.0.            21
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission to Burma in December
1986 and was prepared by Messrs. A. S. El-Mekkawy, S. Khwaja, F. R. Manibog,
M. Sergo and A. Smit of the Energy Department and Ms. N. Tumalivan
(Consultant).



I . Disbursements.... ..................... . so....              22
J.  Monitoring and Reportingpo        r t i ng....................  23
K.  Ecology and Sa.e                          t      y            23
Le  Insurance              .......     ... .     ........         23
IV.      FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....................................          24
A. Introductione.. ........       ......... e  ....... ..,....    24
B.  MOCts Past Financial Performance*e*.................          24
C.  Measures to Improve MOC's Financial Viability......           26
D. Financial Projections ...................... .... ....         27
Et MOC's Financing Plan................................           28
F.  Project Finantial Internal Rate of Return*...***...0          29
V.      PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ANDRISKS.........................           29
A. Introduction........................................           29
B. Economic Evaluation ......e...........................         29
1.  Economic Internal Rate of Return................          31
2.  Sensitivity Analyses............ .................        31
C.  Long-run Marginal Cost................... ...........         32
D. Project Risks .......  ...................                     32
VI.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMKENDATIONS...................         33
ANNEXES
1.01     Background Information on the Oil and Gas Sector
1.02     Terms of Reference - Gas Utilization Study
3.01     Terms of Reference - Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies
3.02     Selection Criteria for 18-inch Diameter Pipeline
3.03     Payagon Gas Development Program - Phases I and II Cost Components;
Summary of Project Costs
3.04     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
3.05     Progress Reporting Requirements
4.01     MOC - Financial Statements (FYs83-86), Projections (FYs87-94)
and Comments
4.02     Payagon Gas Price - Calculation Based on Full Cost Recovery
4.03     Terms of Reference - Study on MOC's Financial Viability
4.04     Financial Internal Rate of Return Calculations
5.01     Gas Demand Forecast
5.02     Economic Internal Rate of Return Calculations
5.03     Payagon Gas Price - Calculation of Long-Run Marginal Cost
5.04     Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1        Energy Sector Organization
2        MOC Organization
3        Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD No. 19766



I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction
1.01     Compared to most developing countries, Burma is fortunate to be
endowed with abundant and varied indigenous sources of energy, including
natural gas, crude oil, hydropower, forest resources, and coal. The country
has substantial oil and gas reserves and the capacity to meet increasing
domestic energy requirements at relatively low cost. Current energy supply,
however, has been kept below realisable potential due to the scarcity of
tecbnical and financial resources needed to accelerate gas development and
reverse the decline in oil production. The country has been experiencing
serious energy shortages, which will become more acute in the absence of
further energy sector investments. Burma has been successful in exploiting
some of its gas resources on its own in recent years. As regards oil,
however, production per well has been limited and further extraction from
currently producing reservoirs has become increasingly difficult due to the
natural productivity decline of the partially depleted oilfields and adverse
conditions confronting oil production in Burma. An infusion of modern
petroleum technology ia required and could be expected to contribute to a
significant improvement in oil recovery, as has been the case in China, where
access to modern technology has been a key factor in achieving recent
production gains.
1.02     The energy sector could be transformed into an important source of
economic growth. Firstly, there is significant potential for increasing oil
production. Secondly, the future role of Burma's sizeable but underdeveloped
natural gas resources can be significantly enlarged and has become one of the
key energy policy issues. The Government of Burma (COB) has begun exploiting
some onshore gas reserves through a series of natural gas-based industries and
by encouraging the conversion to gas, wherever feasible, of power plants and
industries using diesel and fuel oil.  Since production costs for natural gas
are very low and markets close to the gas fields, natural gas should remain a
competitive energy source even at low oil international prices (pars 5.08).
The possibility of developing the Martaban offshore natural gas reserves to
support major export-oriented, gas-based industries has also been considered
by GOB but has been postponed due to large capital requirements and
uncertainties in export markets for the industrial products. The more
immediate supply option, therefore, is to accelerate the domestic production
and utilization of lower-cost onshore gas reserves.
1.03     The proposed project would be a critical step in increasing rapidly
the energy sector's contribution to economic growth by supporting the further
appraisal and development of the Payagon gas field in southern Burma, as well
as by expanding the gas transmission and distribution network to Rangoon. A
1/   A more detailed description and analysis of the energy sector is
contained in the report entitled "Burma: Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector" (June 1985, Report No. 5416-BA), which is part of a series of reports
prepared under the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program.



- 2 -
gas utilization study would also be undertaken in order to outline a priority
sequence of gas investments over the medium term, help design an efficient
pipeline network to meet growing gas demand and, in conjunction with a major
technical assistance package, promote better planning and strengthen
institutions in the gas subsector. The project would also support transfer of
much needed technology for petroleum reserve evaluation and reservoir
management, heavy oil extraction and enhanced oil recovery.
Commercial Energy Supply/Demand Balance
1.04     Burma's main commercial energy resources are oil, natural gas and
hydropower. The country also has some sub-bituminous coal deposits but their
development for power generation appears less economic than that of gas or
hydro resources in the foreseeable future. Burma's commercial energy con-
sumption is among the lowest in the world at 33 kilograms of oil equivalent
(kgoe) per capita, compared to 36 kgoe per capita in Bangladesh. It is
estimated that as much as 862 of total energy requirements are met from
traditional sources such as fuelwood, charcoal and biomass residues.
Petroleum products dominate the comercial energy mix, accounting for 63% of
total primary commercial energy supplies in 1985/86. The largest consumer of
commercial energy was the transport sector (532), followed by industry (422)
and households (52). The minor share of the household sector reflects limited
access to electricity and constrained supply of kerosene for use as cooking
fuel.
1.05     Commercial energy is supplied almost entirely from domestic
resources, with a very small contribution from imported coal. GOB's policy is
not to trade in crude oil or petroleum products, relying entirely on local
production and refining capacity. The result is a very high level of
suppressed demand for petroleum products, which are now administratively
allocated. Even under a conservative scenario of energy demand growth, the
gap between supply and demand is estimated to be substantial, given falling
domestic oil production and a level of commerci q  energy demand that is
projected to at least double by the year 2000. .± This gap may be expected to
widen unless immediate actions are taken to augment domestic commercial energy
supplies.
Crude Oil
Reserves
1.06     Burma has a long history of oil exploration and production, dating
back to 1887 when Burmah Oil Company made a first discovery at Yenangyaung.
Twenty six fields have been discovered to date, mainly in Central Burma and
some in the Upper Delta Basin, with potential in-place reserves including
condensates estimated at 2 billion barrels (bbls); however, more than half of
1/   More optimistic demand forecasts suggest a cix-fold increase by the year
2000. Detailed demand forecasts for COB's "Planned Growth" scenario and a
lower "Economic Growth" scenario are provided in Chapter III and relevant
annex tables of the June 1985 Energy Assessment Report.



- 3 -
these reserves are highly waxy with low recovery rates. Annex 1.01 provides
more details on oil exploration, reserves and production.
Production
1.07     Oil production in Burma is characterized by a disparity between
relatively large, proven reserves and continuously low and falling
production. Modern engineering practices have not been applied to oil
production, which, due to various technical difficulties, is at a very low
2.01 per year of proven recoverable reserves. Production levels have declined
since PY81, also partly due to an excessive focus on exploration to the
detriment of field development. Consequently, total available supply of
petroleum products in PY84 was 0.86 million tons of oil equivalent (MMtoe), or
around 191 less than the 1.06 MMtoe in FY80. Faced with such a decline, GOB
decided to restrict kerosene supply for cooking purposes, making middle
Iistillates available on a priority basis to industry.
1.08     Large infusions of modern petroleum technology are required in order
to reverse the rapid decline in oil production. Furthermore, most oilfields
have passed their peak production and further investments for oil extraction
requires studies involving secondary and enhanced oil recovery techniques for
optimal results. Oil production in Burma faces several technical
constraints: (i) the high wax content and/or high viscosity of the crude oil
in many reservoirs; (ii) the low formation pressures of many reservoirs; and
(iii) low permeability of the reservoirs particularly due to the presence of
clay particles that tend to swell in contact with fresh-water drilling mud.
The project's technical assistance component provides an opportunity for Burma
to expand and diversify its contacts with the international oil industry's
expertise and leading service companies, which would help address some of
these technical challenges. Many new wells will need to be drilled each year
just to maintain production at the current level. As of December 1986, oil
production averaged 21,500 barrels per day (bpd), down from 25,280 bpd in June
1986. This drop has been caused by a shortage of tubulars and other drilling
consumables, which has severely restricted the level of development and infill
drilling necessary to offset the natural decline of the oil fields.
Continuing decline in development drilling, as reflected in the number of
wells planned for FY87, will further result in reduced inventory of producing
wells and steeper drops in oil production.
1.09     The offshore areas of Burma have always been open to international
oil companies (IOCs) for petroleum exploration. However, the IOCs have not
shown a strong interest in the offshore areas recently because these areas are
considered gas-prone based on drilling results. Large reserves have been dis-
covered offshore by the national oil company, the Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC)
(see para 1.14), but cannot be developed economically on the basis of current
international market and price conditions. Consequently, IOC interest in
offshore exploration is expected to remain low. Since about 1963, GOB has not
allowed any IOC to operate in the onshore areas as part of the Governments
overall inward-looking economic policies. The onshore areas outside the
currently producing provinces are underexplored. Although large areas of the
country offer little petroleum potential as they are expected to consist
mainly of metamorphosed rocks, the younger and less disturbed sediments in the
western and northern parts of the country offer better possibilities. Any
..potential involvement by IOCs in these areas, however, would be further



- 4 -
complicated by local insurgency. The situation is similar to that of eastern
Bangladesh, where Shell recently had to abandon its exploration venture in the
Chittagong Hill Tracts due to continuing security problems.
1.10     While showing less interest in the southern, more gas-prone areas,
there are indications that IOCs would be interested in exploration and
production in the already established northern/central oil-producing basins.
Their involvement could be beneficial to MOC through the transfer of advanced
technology, particularly in the areas of drilling and reservoir engineering,
including training of staff in reservoir management and production
optimization. Although GOB has shown a willingness to discuss the interest of
lOCs -- as evidenced by discussions in mid-1986 with the Japan National Oil
Company, British Petroleum, Amoco and regular meetings with Shell -- some
obstacles stand in the way of any imminent IOC involvement. For example,
local insurgency problems exist in the areas of IOC interest. Furthermore,
the Government may prefer IOCs to explore in the higher-risk, unexplored areas
rather than the proven, producing basins that IOCs appear to prefer.
Petroleum Product Prices
1.11     All the domestic crude oil production is locally refined in three
main and two small refineries operated by the Petrochemical Industries
Corporation. Total petroleum products consumption is broken down as
follows: diesel - 39%; gasoline - 29%; fuel oil - 21%; aviation fuel and
lubricants - 9y; and kerosene - 2%. Petroleum product retail prices, which
were fixed in the mid-1970s and have not been adjusted since, are almost 801
of equivalent border prices on a reconstituted barrel basis as shown below:
Domestic Prices              CIF Prices a/    Domestic-to-Border
K/IG       USS/mt               (USS/at)         Price Ratio
GasolIne           3.60       162.                 144.                  1.13
Kerosene           2.60       105.                 162,                 0.65
Diesel             2.60        99.                 167.                 0.59
Fuel 011           2.00        69.                 110.                 0.63
a/ Based on World Bank projections for international crude oil prices, adjusted for a set of
projected refinery margins to arrive at expected ex-Singapore petroleum Aroduct prices;
Includes freight differentials. These international product price assumptions are explained
In Chapter V ("Project Justification and Risks") and Annex 5.02.
….---------------------------------------------------------------__--___
The objective of pricing petroleum products to reflect fully their economic
value should be attainable for GOB, considering that the weighted average
domestic price is relatively near the equivalent border price. The pricing
structure needs to be revised, focussing particularly on the low price of
diesel, which has the highest share in total products consumption. Nonethe-
less, the petroleum products subsector is not a financial drain on the budget
of GOB; to the contrary, it is a net contributor because the retail prices
incorporate a high commodity tax of about 40%, representing revenues captured
by GOB. On an annual basis, these tax revenues exceed GOB loans to cover the
cash shortfalls of MOC and other state energy enterprises.



Natural Gas
Reserves and Production
1.12     Southern Burma is a major gas province.  The predominance of gas over
oil increases towards this area of the country. Based on the low level of the
ezploration effort for the different types of prospects (or "plays") in
Burma's sedimentary basins, substantial possibilities remain for further non-
associated gas discoveries, particularly in the lower delta area, onshore as
well as offshore. Total established reserves of natural. gas in Burma are
estimated at 10 trillion standard cubic feet (TCP), of which MOC classifies
75$ as proven and 25% as probable. Similar to the case of oil, the production
rate of gas is very low at 0.51 of established reserves per year. This is
due, however, to the fact that gas market development is still at its early
stages and to financial constraints in expanding the gas infrastructure, and
not to adverse reservoir conditions as in the case of oil production. Annex
1.01 provides more details on gas exploration, reserves and production.
1.13     Central Burma and the Upper Delta Basin contain nearly 2 TCF of gas
in mainly oil-bearing reservoirs. In 1984/85, associated gas production from
this region amounted to 65 MMCFD (23 BCF) of which about 25 MNCFD were used
for power generation, fer0ilizer manufacturing, as a reFinery fuel, and in
cement/glass industries.     With no other significant commercial users in the
region, the rest of the gas (up to 40 gCFD) is used in captive power plants
and industries, reinjected or flared. -   Gas production in Burma to date has
been mainly in the form of associated gas. Possibilities for increasing the
production of this associated gas, which presently constitutes about 70% of
overall gas production, is restricted by the rate at which oil production can
be stepped up. Consequently, the bulk of the projected increase in demand for
natural gas will have to be met from non-associated gas reserves.
1.14     During recert years, non-associated gas has been discovered in the
Lower Delta Basin of Burma in two offshore structures and one onshore area.
The offshore structures, which are estimated to contain 4 to 5 TCF, are
located in the Gulf of Martaban. A preliminary study by Petro-Canada in 1985
of a commercial venture to recover 300 MMCFD of offshore gas for export-
oriented petrochemical production indicated very high levels of investment
required (about US$900 million in 1985 prices). The study also identified
many significant commercial and technical risks associated with such a large
project. GOB has reviewed the study with IDA and has agreed that, given the
low international petroleum prices at present, it would postpone decision on
the implementation of the Martaban offshore gas development project.
11 Power generation (4.5 MMCMD); fertilizer manufacture (9.3 MMCFD);
refinery fuel (3.5 IMCFD); cement/glass (8.0 MMCFD).
2/   Transportation by pipeline of this limited quantity of gas (up to 40
MNCFD) to the nearest concentration of medium-sized industrial demand over
about 300 miles of rough and difficult terrain would be uneconomical.



-6-
Psyayon Gas Field
1.15     The recent onshore non-associated gas discovery in the Lower Delta
Basin is the Payagon field, located 64 miles from Rangoon. Details on the
geology of Payagon are presented in Annex 1.01. Proven and probable reserves
are presently estimated at about 0.8 TCFs proven reserves (i.e., gas reserves
in the sands that are already producing) are calculated at 208 BCF, while
probable reserves (i.e. gas reserves in sands found by exploratory drilling
but from which production has not yet started) are calculated at 629 BCF.
Several wells have been drilled and the field has been connected by a 10-inch
diameter transmission pipeline to Rangoon. Production from three wells is
around 30 MMCFD, which is the maxinum capacity of the existing pipeline.
1.16     While MOC's exploration efforts have been sufficient to firm up gas
reserves, ensuing appraisal and production efforts have been inadequate.
Additional geophysical mapping of the producing horizons, drilling of
appraisal and production wells, the construction of supplementary pipeline
network (64 miles or 103 kilometers from Payagon to Rangoon and 152 miles or
245 kilometers from Rangoon to southern Burma) and an assessment of the
potential for domestic uses of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and compressed
natural gas (CNG) are required to achieve full utilization of the Payagon gas
field. In view of the acute shortage of petroleum products, COB has indicated
strong interest in exploring the potential use of CNC and LPG in the transport
sector. While a few gasoline- and diesel-fueled vehicles have been converted
by MOC to use CNG and LPC on an experimental basis, it has not been possible
in the absence of adequate equipment and knowhow to evaluate the performance
of the converted vehicles and to prepare a full feasibility study.
Gas Utilization
1.17     Total domestic gas consumption has risen rapidly from 4.9 billion
cubic feet (BCF) in FY75 to 8.8 BCF in FY79 and 16.8 BCP in FY84. This rapid
growth has been due to increased gas use in tbree sectorss power generation,
oil refining and industry. Current Payagon gas production of 30 MICFD is
being used in the Rangoon area for power generation (19 W CFD), fuel for one
refinery (7 MMCFD), and brick manufacture and a few, large industries
(4 MMCPD).
1.18     Use of natural gas in Burma is projected to continue to rise
substantially during the next two decades. Gas will substitute for current
diesel and fuel oil consumption and stem further growth in diesel demand in
the power, refinery and industry sectors. All the liquid fuels released can
be readily absorbed within the domestic economy due to the high level of
suppressed demand for petroleum products, especially middle distillates (see
para 1.05). Projected Payagon gas sales up to FY96 for existing consumers, as
well as step-wise and incremental demand growth, are discussed in Chapter V on
"Project Justification and Risks".
1.19     In pursuing the full development of the Payagon gas field, it is
essential that scarce financial resources be allocated to their best use, that
is, in priority investments that deliver maximum benefits to the national
economy at least cost. In practical terms, given the early stage of gas dev-
elopment in Burma, COB requires an operational subsector policy and investment
planning framework that is closely linked to the achievement of optimal



- 7 -
resource allocation and macroeconomic objectives. To meet this need, a Gas
Utilization Study (GUS) will be undertaken as part of the project in order to
firm up gas supply estimates, develop gas demand forecasting capabilities,
estimate unconstrained gas demand, identify gas network and other field infra-
structure requirements, and recomend optimal gas allocation among alternative
uses and a sequence of priority investments, as well as concrete measures to
accelerate penetration of the gas markets. Detailed terms of reference for
the Study, which the United Nations Development Program has agreed to finance
with IDA acting as executing agency, are provided in Annex 1.02. During
negotiations, the final terms of reference for the Gas Utilization Study were
agreed and assurances were obtained that GOB will review with IDA the progress
and results of the Study.
Gas Pricin8
1.20     Since the 1985 energy assessment, IDA has recommended to, and sought
from, 008 the adoption of gas pricing principles based on full cost recovery,
that is, a level that would at least cover the long-run marginal cost of
Payagon gas development, transmission and distribution, and, at the same time,
make the full development program for the Payagon field a financially viable
operation for MOC. Application of these principles requires a substantial
price increase from a level qf about US$0.30 to US$1.00 (around K7.00) per
thousand cubic feet (MCF). 1'  The existing low gas tariff was set originally
to reflect only the incremental production costs of separating associated gas,
which is a by-product in the production of crude oil. The Payagon field,
however, contains "free" or non-associated gas, for which gas-dedicated wells
need to be drilled, and a capital-intensive transmission and distribution
system constructed, to deliver gas to consumers. The level of price increase
required for Payagon gas was confirmed during the June 1986 IDA pre-appraisal
mission, which has prepared jointly with MOC detailed pricing calculations
following the above cost recovery criteria. This analysis subsequently formed
the basis of further dialogue between IDA and GOB, and supported a position
paper prepared by MOC seeking GOB approval to increase the Payagon gas price.
1.21     GOB has agreed to adopt Payagon gas pricing principles based on full
cost recovery for MOC. In March 1987, GOB announced to IDA its decision that
Payagon gas would be priced at K7.50/MCF (or US$ 1.13/MCF), to become
effective on April 1, 1987. This price is well above long-run marginal cost
and the level required for full cost recovery. During negotiations, GOB
confirmed that the March 1987 announcement on Payagon gas price increase had
been implemented. The further passing along of the increased gas price is not
expected to require major adjustments under this project since the overall
impact, even with the gas price increase, would be to lower the costs of the
gas-using enterprises over time for the following reasons. Over 75% of full
Payagon gas production will go to new gas users who would otherwise use more
costly fuel oil and diesel whose prices are, respectively, around 46X
(Ill/MCF) and 113X (K16/MCF) higher than the increased Payagon gas prices in
1/ For Burma, which is a gas-surplus country, the depletion premium is
estimated to be negligible. Under conservative reserve assumptions, this
premium plus the US$1/MCF level that would achieve full cost recovery is well
within the gas price levels decided by GOB. This analysis is presented in
Chapter V on "Project Justification and Risks".



- 8 -
energy equivalent terms. For existing gas users, which will account for no
more than 25 of Payagon gas production, cost savings due to the envisaged
rapid rate of gas substitution for more expensive liquid fuels will quickly
offset the cost increases resulting from the quadrupled gas price. For
example, only about 5% of the Electric Power Corporation's installed
generating capacity will be affected. In addition, at the time that Payagon
gas was introduced at a low price, the new gas-using enterprises reaped a
windfall as prices of their products based on costlier liquid fuels were not
reduced despite the reduction in energy costs. Even at the higher gas price
in effect as of April 1, 1987, these enterprises are in a more favorable
position than prior to gas conversion due to the lower cost of gas (at the new
price) as compared to the liquid fuels they were using. Nonetheless, the
study on MOC's financial viability (see para 4.09 and Annex 4.03) will
evaluate, among other financial measures, the effect of Payagon gas price
increases on the financial viability of intermediate, gas-using enterprises,
as well as the impact of passing along these gas price increases.
Hydropower
1.22     Burma has abundant hydropower resources in its river systems draining
the Irrawadday, Chindwin, Salween and Sittang basins. The Electric Power
Corporation estimates the whole country's hydropower potential to be more than
100,000 MW on an installed capacity basis, as compared to only around 650 MW
of currently installed and planned capacity. Burma also has numerous sites
that are suitable for mini-hydropower plants; seven stations with a total
capacity of around 10.5 MW have been completed and 16 other sites with a total
capacity of 14 MW are being investigated for possible development. GOB places
high priority on hydropower development over the long term. Due to the high
cost, environmental impact and long lead time of hydropower development,
however, GOB has given equal and immediate importance to lower capital cost,
gas-based power generation in order to meet the rapid growth in electricty
demand.
1.23     Burma's sizeable natural gas potential has important implications for
power generation. The bulk of projected gas substitution until the mid-1990s
will occur in the power sector, specifically in the existing Kyaiklat, Ahlone
and Ywama plants and the committed Thaketa plant. The Thaketa gas turbine
alone would absorb over half of the additional Payagon gas production that
would result from the project. Gas development, while stemming the demand
growth for liquid fuels in power generation, is also the most economic means
of meeting additional generating capacity requirements. According to the
IDA/UNDP Energy Assessment Report, studies indicate that the cost of
hydropower averages around 3.9 US cents/kWh, as compared to about 2.5 US
cents/kWh for gas turbine generation at a gas price of US$1.0/MCF. The Energy
Assessment Report also estimated that overall investment needs in the power
sector would be US$500 million less if the gas option is pursued rather than
the large hydro option. In addition, the large hydropower projects being
considered in Burma cannot be justified on the basis of power benefits alone;
irrigation and other benefits from proposed multipurpose hydro schemes still
need to be confirmed. In this context, natural gas-based power generation may
be expected to play an important role at least through the next decade.
Beyond the mid-1990s, the relative share of gas and hydro resources in power
generation will be determined largely by the relative economics of alternative
hydropower schemes and results of the least-cost power sector expansion plan
study being proposed to GOB for implementation, as well as the opportunity



cost of gas over time, which would be addressed by the Gas Utilization Study
under the project.
Traditional Energy
1.24     While Burma remains fortunate to be covered by forests for around 70Z
of its land area, recent surveys indicate that this forest cover is declining
at an accelerating rate due mainly to fuelwood extraction for energy use in
rural areas. Indeed, fuelwood accounts for almost 90% of non-commercial
energy use, the rest being shared by charcoal and other biomass residues.
Rural households depend almost exclusively on fuelwood for cooking and
heating; however, almost half of total fuelwood and charcoal consumption
occurs in the main urban areas of Rangoon, Mandalay, Magwe and Pegu. At the
current average growth rate in fuelwood consumption (2Z per year), it is
estimated that the level of sustainable yield would be exceeded shortly after
the year 2000. Although it would not be possible to reduce dependence on
fuelwood in the short term, concrete efforts are required to stabilize
extraction rates, manage demand through conversion and end-use efficiency
improvements, promote biomass research and utilization of wood wastes, and
encourage fuelwood plantation schemes, particularly in areas where localized
penuries are a near-term possibility. These measures need to be implemented
soon in order to postpone if not avert irreversible loss of tropical forest
cover, soil damage, and shortages of biomass energy on which the majority of
the population depends.
i/
Sector Institutions and Planning -
1.25     In establishing the Ministry of Energy (MOE) in April 1985, GOB has
taken the initial step required for coordinating sector institutions and
strengthening energy planning capabilities. In addition to four energy
corporations -- namely the Myanma Oil Corporation, the Petrochemical
Industries Corporation, the Petroleum Products Supply Corporation, and the
Electric Power Corporation -- a new Energy Planning Department is also being
established under MOE to: (i) continuously monitor developments in the
petroleum and power subsectors; (ii) carry out energy supply and demand
studies and provide recommendations on balancing and substitution
possibilities; (iii) initiate or undertake energy research and development
activities; (iv) monitor progress in the implementation of energy projects;
and (v) assist MOE in coordinating the activities of the corporations under
the Ministry. While the organizational set-up of MOE (see Chart 1) appears
adequate, its effectiveness needs to be closely monitored in the coming
years. In particular, the local capability to undertake detailed gas market
surveys, analysis and demand projections that explicitly take into account
macroeconomic, demographic and other parameters, needs to be strengthened.
The Gas Utilization Study (para 1.19) aims to develop this capability within
the Ministry of Energy and MOC. In addition, the Gas UtIlization Study would
serve as a vehicle for reorienting energy planning from an approach that is
almost exclusively focussed on physical plant aspects towards a better
recognition of the cost implications and economy-wide effects of alternative
sector development strategies.
I/     The specific technical and other institutional strengthening
requirements of MOC are discussed separately in Chapter III ("The Project").



- 10 -
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy
1.26     The 1985 IDA/UNDP Energy Assessment Report was the first
comprehensive analysis of the major issues faced by the Burmese energy
sector. In the petroleum subsector, these issues include the relative neglect
of onshore gas potential, inadequate pricing of natural gas, undue emphasis on
exploration instead of development, and insufficient technology for improving
oil recovery. IDA's subsequent dialogue with GOB has revolved around the
Report's conclusion that future production gains will depend largely on
overcoming these constraints, and has resulted in positive shifts in COB's
petroleum policies. In the area of natural gas, costly development of
offshore gas reserves, judged uneconomic at this stage, has been postponed.
GOB is focusing instead on lower-cost Payagon onshore gas reserves, which can
be developed economically at current prices and delivered via a compact
distribution network to nearby demand centers to substitute for diesel and
fuel oil. A major policy initiative in the gas subsector has been GOB's
decision, supported by IDA, to increase the Payagon gas price to cover long-
run marginal cost and ensure the financial viability of the Payagon Gas
Development Program. GOB has also realized the importance of undertaking
investment planning in the gas subsector and has agreed to review its gas
investment program with IDA. For crude oil, more emphasis is now being given
to development and improvement of production technology, as well as tapping of
vast waxy crude deposits. Finally, GOB has recognized the need to gain access
to foreign expertise in the international petroleum industry and included a
substantial petroleum technical assistance package under this project. GOB
has also shown preliminary interest in exploring gradually a possible private
sector role in further development of the petroleum sector.
1.27     IDA's basic objective in the petroleum subsector is to help alleviate
the shortage of petroleum productst which has constrained economic
development. In addressing this fundamental goal, IDA is supporting several
policy, technical assistance, and investment initiatives aimed at: (i)
enlarging the role of natural gas by developing natural gas reserves and by
substituting gas for diesel or fuel oil in power generation, industry and
other major uses; (ii) offsetting the natural decline in oil production by
introducing production improvement techniques, including those for tapping
waxy crude deposits; (iii) encouraging gas pricing policy reform; and (vi)
strengthening petroleum subsector development planning.
1.28     GOB has limited resources to meet the large financial requirements
for developing the petroleum sector, making it essential for GOB to focus on
priority investments. Therefore, adequate assistance in formulating sector
development policy needs to be provided in conjunction with transfer of modern
petroleum technology and financial resources. This type of assistance should
enable Burma to rapidly put the Payagon gas field into full use and, with
advanced production management, also double oil production to a level of
around 50,000 bpd by the mid-1990s.
1.29     This petroleum project is the first IDA operation in a key sector of
the economy. It provides a concrete opportunity --- at this crucial juncture
when GOB is in the initial stages of formulating r long-term development po-
licy for the petroleum sector - to pursue IDA's sector policy recommend-
ations and build further on the productive dialogue so far achieved. In
addition to a revised gas pricing policy, IDA's involvement in the proposed
project would facilitate a gradual introduction of modern petroleum technology



- 11 -
while encouraging the preliminary interest shown by GOB towards oil industry
involvement in the sector. IDA's involvement would also promote investment
planning through the implementation of a gas utilization study that would
identify priority gas development objectives and map out an optimal sequence
of investments. IDA's presence in the sector would have the longer term
objective of making available to Burma the extensive institutional, technology
transfer and policy experience which the World Bank group has gained in other
countries, particularly in the area of natural gas, to support the rational
development of Burma's hydrocarbon resources.
II. TEH BENEFICIARY
Introduction
2.01     The oil industry was in private hands until 1963, when the assets of
private oil companies operating in Burma, mainly Burmah Oil Company, were
acquired by GOB and the People's Oil Industry was established to manage all
aspects of the industry from exploration and production to marketing of pro-
ducts. The Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC) was established in 1963 under the
supervision of the Ministry of Mines to take over the responsibilities for
onshore and offshore exploration, development, production and marketing of oil
and natural gas in Burma. In 1977, MOC was transferred to the Ministry of
Industry No. 2 and in 1985 to the Ministry of Energy (MOE), which currently
supervises its operations.
The Hyanma Oil Corporation
Organization and Capabilities 11
2.02     MOC's 1976 charter gives HOC adequate financial autonomy, authority
to hire and dismiss employees and prescribe wage rates, and revise prices,
after prior approval of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers.
The charter also stipulates that MOC should be run along commercial lines.
MOC prepares a capital budget, which has to be approved by the Ministry of
Industry's Equipment Control Committee and the Ministry of Construction's
Construction Control Committee; MOC's operating expenditures are included in
the GOB-approved budget for MOE.
2.03     MOC is headed by a Board of Directors, which is chaired by MOC's
Managing Director and includes five representatives from MOC's management and
two from its staff. The Board is directly responsible to MOE. MOC is
organized into eight departments, each headed by a Director, for planning,
exploration, drilling, engineering, fields, administration, finance and
offshore operations. HOC's present organizational set-up (see Chart 2) is
adequate and in line with that of other national oil companies.
2.04     MOC has 17,500 employees, including 1,110 professional staff, and
operates 15 geological field parties, three gravity survey parties, five
seismic crews (including a marine survey vessel), a data center and 45
1/ See also paras 3.08 and 3.29 on MOC force account.



- 12 -
drilling rigs. MOC has about 35 years of experience as part of Burmah Oil
Company and 25 years since nationalization in the fields of drilling and
pipeline engineering. MOC's track record in drilling and pipeline
construction is fairly impressive; its established practices and procedures
are time-tested and well suited to local conditions. The MOC organization is
staffed with a competent top management. Together with the middle management-
level professionals, they are well-versed in the basic technology and
practices of drilling and pipeline engineering. MOC's expertise for routine
operations in seismic acquisition and drilling is at a level commensurate with
the international oil industry; its exploration department is adequately
staffed with the required expertise. A number of managers and senior
executives have had the benefit of technical education in Europe, North
America and Eastern block countries. Some on-the-job training for MOC on
seismic acquisition and processing have also been conducted in the past using
foreign expertise.
2.05     Due to its long isolation from the international oil and gas industry
for the last 15 years, however, MOC is not fully apprised of the full range of
modern advances in petroleum engineering standards, practices and technology,
and state-of-the-art techniques have not been introduced. HOC's management is
fully aware of this deficiency and would like to gain access to international
oil industry technical expertise in order to bring MOC's operations up to
date. The project is expected to help fill this gap, particularly at middle
management levels, through a training program and exposure of MOC to
consultants from the international oil and gas industry.
Accounts and Audit
2.06     MOC has maintained the commercial accounting practices adopted by the
Burmah Oil Company with the following modifications: as from FY80, offshore
exploration expesnditures are capitalized; depreciation rates were revised in
FY83; and as from FY84, all successful wells are capitalized. To provide its
management with adequate information, MOC's accounting system now
discriminates among development, exploration and offshore operations, and
separate budgets are made for these areas. On the whole, MOC's accounting
procedures are adequate and follow generally accepted commercial accounting
principles. Training in cost accounting and pricing of oil and gas will be
provided under the project in order to equip MOC with adequate expertise in
cost recovery estimation and enable MOC to better assist GOB in formulating
pricing policies for the sector.
2.07     MOC's external audit, including control of compliance with current
rules and regulations, as well as financial performance, are under the
supervision of the Council of People's Inspectorate (CPI), which has 19
auditors permanently assigned to the audit of MOC. CPI also has staff
stationed all around Burma who assist in the audit of MOC operaticns outside
Rangoon. Except for timeliness of audit reports, these audit arrangements are
adequate and have been accepted by IDA and ADB under previous projects.
2.08     Due to recent changes in accounting practices (see para 2.06), the
audit reports for MOC were delayed and the most recent report available is for
FY83. This matter was discussed with MOC's financial management, which
indicated that these delays will be reduced now that no further changes in
accounting policies are contemplated. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that MOC will submit to IDA its unaudited accounts within nine



- 13 -
months, and the corresponding audit report, including a report on the Special
Account, not later than twelve months, after the end of MOC's fiscal year.
This would apply as from MOC's FY88, so that all audited accounts for FYs84-88
would be submitted to IDA not later than by March 31, 1989.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01     The main objective of the proposed project is to help alleviate
chronic shortages of petroleum, which has hindered growth of the Burmese
economy. This is to be achieved by assisting in the further development of
the onshore Payagon gas field as well as the introduction of modern petroleum
technology and latest advances in international petroleum engineering and
production practices. To achieve this overall objective, the project would
support:
(i)    a development and appraisal drilling component for the Payagon
gas field;
(ii)    a gas transmission and distribution component that would deliver
Payagon gas to large consumers in Rangoon; and
(iii)    technical assistance and training to assist in the imple-
mentation of the various project components, as well as studies
to identify options for enhancing oil recovery and to strengthen
investment planning capabilities in the gas subsector.
Project Rationale
3.02     The proposed project establishes the framework for pursuing IDA's
dialogue with GOB on development policy and assistance requirements in the
petroleum subsector. In order to identify the issues constraining further
development of Burma's petroleum resources, GOB requested IDA to undertake an
Energy Assessment, which was completed in June 1985. Among other findings,
the Energy Assessment concluded that the development of onshore gas reserves
should be given priority over the more costly offshore gas development, thus
leading to the identification of the Payagon Gas Development Program (PGDP).
The PGDP's fundamental objective is to transform Burma's natural gas wealth
into a major force driving economic growth. It consists of two phases to
produce an additional 35 MMCFD for the Rangoon area under Phase I (FYs88-91)
and another 35 or more MMCFD to serve areas beyond Rangoon under Phase II
(FYs9l-94). Total peak production from the Payagon field by the late-1990s
would reach around 120 MMCFD, serving Rangoon as well as Sittang, Thaton and
Myaingale in southern Burma.
3.03     The proposed project corresponds to Phase I of the PGDP.  The project
will also serve as the vehicle for implementing GOB's decision to quadruple
the Payagon gas price (see para 1.20) in order to corer PGDP's long-run
marginal cost at the minimum and begin to move MOC towards becoming a
financially viable entity. The underlying economic rationale behind the PGDP
is that it would rapidly enable a country that is seriously short of
commercial energy to develop and deliver domestic gas supplies to existing
demand centers at an economic cost that is significantly lower than the



- 14 -
estimated border price values of alternative liquid fuels. As such, the PGDP
would form part of any reasonable priority investment program that the Gas
Utilization Study (para 1.19) may identify.
Project Description
Gas Field Development and Appraisal Drilling
3.04     To increase production from the Payagon gas field by about 35 MMCFD,
the project includes goods and services for: (i) the drilling of 12
development wells; (ii) urgently needed imported drilling tools, consumables
and necessary replacement parts for MOC's drilling rigs; and (iii) the
upgrading of seismic field equipment. To establish sufficient reserves for
meeting projected gas demand beyond Phase I, the project also includes goods
and services for the drilling of 5 deep appraisal wells.
Gas Transmission and Distribution
3.05     The project will finance the following main elements of this
component:
(a) construction of an 18-inch diameter natural gas transmission
pipeline over a distance of 64 miles (103 kilometers) from the gathering
station at Payagon to the city gate station at Ywama outside Rangoon;
provision of cathodic protection, pigging and telemetering facilities to the
expanded transmission system to maximize its life, security and throughput;
(b) expansion of the existing Rangoon city gate station at Ywama,
presently only a pressure regulation station, commensurate with projected
demand; provision of customer meter stations and conversion equipment;
upgrading with modern gas filteration, odorization, pressure/flow monitoring
and control facilities to enable it to function as the gas control and
dispatch center from the Payagon field to Rangoon;
(c) design of a basic Rangoon distribution system, equipped with
modern pressure and flow control and data acquisition equipment, and
construction of the main elements of this basic design; and
(d) cathodic protection against corrosion for the existing 10-inch
diameter Payagon to Rangoon gas transmission pipeline.
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
3.06     The technical assistance included in the project in the form of
consultancy services will be for the following: (a) seismic interpretation;
(b) design and installation supervision of cathodic protection systems on the
existing 10-inch and proposed 18-inch diameter pipelines; (c) quality control
inspection of pipeline welding and coat wrapping operations; (d) design of a
basic distribution system for Rangoon; and (e) design and installation
supervision of the telecommunications, telemetery, as well as the supervisory
control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems for the transmission pipelines
and Rangoon basic distribution deagn. The project will also support
consultancies for the implementation of two studies: (a) Enhanced Oil Recovery
Studies to address production difficulties in two producing oil fields (Tetma
and Chauk); and (b) a Gas Utilization Study to promote gas subsector planning



- 15 -
(see para 1.19). The project will support MOCs training needs in the design,
installation and operations of modern gas transmi8sloinand distribution
systems (see psra 3.15).
LPG/CNG Pilot Activity
3.07     The project will finance consultancy services, conversion kits,
service stations, and equipment for a small pilot operation to investigate the
technical and economic feasibility of promoting the use of CNC/LPG as fuel in
the transport sector.
Project Implementation
3.08     The Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC) would be the implementing agency for
the project. The development and appraisal drilling, seismic activities, and
pipeline construction work will be carried out under MOC force account (see
para 3.29). MOC's past experience shows an excellent record with respect to
economy of operations, cost-competitiveness relative to the international
petroleum industry, and field safety. Costs of wells drilled and pipelines
constructed by MOC are well below comparative international costs even in the
present depressed market. Unit costs of pipe-laying are in the range of 601
of international levels; frilling costs are low even when compared to the
soft international market particularly for wells of shallow and medium depth,
which is the case in the Payagon field. Having operated with, and as
successor of, the Burmah Oil Company over the past 35 years, MOC has had a
long drilling and seismic work experience since its formation and has
successfully concluded hundreds of wells and seismic lines. MOC's pipeline
construction experience include about 300 miles of transmission pipelines in
central and southern Burma, including several submerged crossings. Routine
operations in drilling and pipeline construction are commensurate with
international standards, while employing techniques best suited to local
conditions. While the past record of MOC drilling operations is acceptable,
however, time delays have been experienced in moving the rigs in swampy
areas. Operations in the Payagon srea are strongly controlled by seasonal
conditions and rig movements during the May to November wet season are nearly
impossible. The same weather constraints affect the seismic surveys. Utnder
the project, where a low level of activity would be spread out intermittently
over several years due to seasonal conditions, mobilization of foreign
contractors would not be warranted due to high standby fees.
3.09     During appraisal, agreement has been reached with GOB and MOC for the
creation of a special Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within MOC under the
supervision of a Project Director. The PIU, which will be fully dedicated to
the project, will facilitate implementation and coordination of the various
components of this project. During negotiations, COB confirmed that the PIU
has been established and a Director appointed. The terms of reference and
organization of the Unit were reviewed and agr-id; GOB also confirmed that the
Unit would be fully staffed, including support services, prior to Board
presentation. The project implementation schedule, which has been agreed with
MOC, is provided in Chart 3. Implementation of each of the project's
components iS elaborated below.



- 16 -
Development/Appraisal Drilling and Seismic Acquisition
3.10     The development and appraisal drilling and seismic activities will be
carried out by MOC's own drilling rigs and seismic parties. MOC will deploy a
total of 4 drilling rigs. Two rigs will be used for drilling appraisal wells,
each of which is expected to take 4 to 5 months, including the rig moving
time. Development wells, to be drilled by the other 2 rigs, are expected to
take 3 months. Consequently, the proposed 12 development and 5 appraisal
wells can be drilled in a total of about 18 months, spread out over 2 dry
seasons. Development drilling will tap further already producing sands or
initiate production from sands that are found productive by appraisal wells
being currently drilled and self-financed by HOC. The search for additional
reserves through appraisal drilling will be directed towards the yet untested
structures in the Payagon area and the deeper reservoirs on structures where
production has already been established. MOC also needs to continue seismic
surveys in the Payagon area. Upgraded seismic equipment will be used to
produce a larger quantity of higher-resolution seismic information in the
marshy areas of Payagon; future drilling sites will be selected on the basis
of this better information on the structural geology. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from MOC that, during supervision missions, MOC will
furnish IDA for its review and comment MOC's proposals for the locations of
future development and appraisal wells as well as seismic programs, and that
at regular intervals, MOC will also review with IDA staff the seismic, well
drilling and testing results and consequent updating of the reserve
calculations. Assurances were also obtained that HOC will review with IDA the
progress and results of the Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies.
Gas Transmission and Distribution
3.11     Pipeline construction work will also be carried out by MOC's pipeline
crews. Construction management and field supervision will be provided by
HOC's managers and engineers. The 18-inch diameter pipeline will be laid
parallel to the existing 10-inch diameter pipeline along the same right-of-
way. Due to extensive waterlogging in the monsoon season, almost all field
work is planned to be done in the dry seasons (December-April) of FY88 through
FY90. MOC plans to undertake inspection and rectification works for the
existing pipeline simultaneously with the start-up of its cathodic protection
works.
3.12     The present Rangoon distribution system, which consists largely of a
few individual pipeline spurs operating at various pressures from the city
gate station, is not equipped for optimal reticulation of gas supply at steady
pressures. During appraisal, it was agreed with MOC that, based on the most
recent experience in Europe, the distribution system will be designed on Lhe
modern concept of medium-pressure operation, under which all distribution
networks would operate at a uniform pressure of 4 bars, thus resulting in
simpler design, reduction in pipe size and significant cost savings of 20 to
30Z. This system would also provide greater built-in storage capacity (system
pack), greater operational flexibility and scope for future expansion at
relatively iow additional costs, while providing at least equivalent standards
of safety.
3.13     MOC will also implement the LPG/CNG pilot operation.  During
negotiations, IDA discussed and agreed with MOC the objectives, criteria,
monit,)ring system and evaluation methods for thq ccomponent and obtained



- 17 -
assurances that MOC will prepare a detailed implementation plan for IDA review
and comuent not later than three months after Credit effectiveness.
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
3.14     The seismic interpretatior. consultant will work with MOC's
exploration staff on the interpretation of seismic and well data and assist in
the selection of locations for the appraisal and development wells to be
drilled under the project. Consultancy services for pipeline inspection, the
design of the cathodic protection system, the telecommunication/telemetery
system and the basic Rangoon distribution grid, would be obtained shortly
after approval of the IDA credit. The Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies will
analyze the available reservoir and production data and advise MOC on
methodologies that could enhance the production rate and ultimate recovery
from these fields. The Gas Utilization Study (para 1.19), which is expected
to take 18 months to complete, will focus on preparing a gas subsector
planning framework and a short-term priority investment program. Detailed
terms of reference for the Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies is presented in Annex
3.01 and for the Gas Utilization Study in Annex 1.02. Final terms of
reference for the consultancy services and studies were agreed with GOB during
negotiations. To maximize the transfer of advanced petroleum engineering
technology and modern industry practices, Burmese counterparts will be fully
associated with all aspects of the technical assistance and studies, both
during the field work in Burma as well as ditring any parts of the studies
conducted in overseas offices of the consultants.
3.15     For training purposes, MOC has prepared and reviewed with IDA a
program involvings (a) specialized education and operational exposure for a
core group of about 22 engineers and 2 economists who will be sent to selected
institutes and gas utilities abroad to attend formal courses in the various
disciplines of gas engineering, gas economics, energy planning, and cost
accounting; and (b) on-the-job training of about 150 engineers, supervisors
and technicians who will be working with the consultants and inspectors,
supplemented by invited lecturers on specialized topics, over a period of
three to four years. The detailed components of a formal training program for
MOC and the Energy Planning Department of the Ministry of Energy were agreed
with GOB during negotiations.
3.16     On GOB's request, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) has
agreed to finance the Gas Utilization Study, the Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies
and the training program, with IDA acting as the executing agency.
Status of Project Preparation
Seismic Acquisition
3.17     During appraisal, the mission, assisted by a Bank consultant
specialized in seismic acquisition in swampy areas, discussed in detail with
MOC the current status of its exploration technology and the need for further
data collection and seismic acquisition equipment in the Payagon area.
Various options for optimizing the productivity of MOC's field crews were
evaluated, taking into account protected rice crop areas and current
limitations on yearly recording to a short dry weather window of five
months. The present recording method of using deep shotholes is heavily
dependent on the mobility of truck-mounted drilling equipment and water supply



- 18 -
vehicles that are slow under Payagon conditions. Since the February 1986 IDA
identification mission, MOC has conducted tests with shallow, multiple
shotholes, which yielded good quality data and can be drilled by hand-carried
equipment. Spare parts and additional recording equipment are required in
order to enhance the quality of data and increase MOC's efficiency by allowing
the simultaneous recording of more data points. A preliminary list of
required seismic equipment has been agreed with MOC during negotiations.
Drilling
3.18     Severe shortages of equipment have interfered with MOC's operations,
thus constraining MOC's efficient drilling of wells. The appraisal team
reviewed in detail and agreed with MOC's staff on the requirements for
drilling materials, consumables and services so as to ensure uninterrupted MOC
operation, except for delays caused by necessary rig movements during the
rainy season. The present drilling time needed for a 1,400-meter well is 8
weeks including testing, which is considered acceptable.
Transmission and Distribution
3.19     MOC's design for the 18-inch diameter Payagon to Rangoon transmission
system, as well as related materials, equipment and their specifications, have
been examined and agreed with MOC during project appraisal. The selection
criteria for this pipeline is discussed in detail in Annex 3.02.
Project Cost Estimates
3.20     The project cost estimates for the whole Payagon Gas Development
Program (PGDP) are presented in Annex 3.03. Interest during construction is
expected to be expensed immediately against income in accordance with HOC's
practices. The total financing requirements of the proposed project (Phase I
of PGDP), including physical and price contingencies, are estimated at about
US$100 million equivalent, of which about US$66 million are in foreign
exchange, as shown in detail in Annex 3.03 and in summary form below:



- 19 -
Project Cost Estimate
Forei n   Locala/  Total
-- -%--(Smillon)~---
I.   Gas Field Development
(a)  Seismic equipment and services                 1.5       1.5      3.0
(b)  Development drilling                           7.0       5.0     12.0
(c)  Production surface facilities                  7.0      4.5      11.5
(d)  Transport equipment and vessels                5.0       2.0      7.0
Sub-total                     20.5     13.0      33.5
II.   Gas Transmission and Distribution
(a)  18" transmission pipeline                     14.5       7.0     21.5
(b) Ywama city gate station, customer meter
stations and conversion equipment              1.5      1.0       2.5
(c)  Cathodic protection for 10" pipeline           1.5       0.5      2.0
(d)  Basic distribution development (Rangoon)    1.5         0.5       2.0
Sub-total                     19.0      9.0      28.0
III.   Technical Assistance and Compu ter Software
(a)  Seismic interpretation                         0.25     0.05      0.30
(b)  Corrosion control                              0.75     0.20      0.95
(c)  Pipeline inspection                            0.75     0.20      0.95
(d)  Distribution system design                     0.40     0.10      0.50
(e)  Telecommunications/telemetering,
SCADA and computer software                    0.35     0.15      0.50
(f)  Gas utilization study                          0.75     0.15      0.90
(g)  Enhanced oil recovery studies                  1.00     0.20      1.20
(h)  Training                                       0.45     O.1S      0.60
Sub-total                     4.70      1.20      5.90
IV.   Appraisal Drilling for Phase II
Sub-total                      5.0      3.0       8.0
V.   LPC/CNG Pilot Scheme
Sub-total                      1.5      0.5       2.0
Base Cost Estimate                                        50.7      26.7      77.4
Physical Contingencies                             11.7      2.9      14.6
Price Contingencies                                 3.1      5.0       8.1
Total Project Cost                                        65.5      34.6    100.1
a/   Local costs include US$15.8 million of taxes and duties.



- 20 -
3.21     The base cost estimates are expressed in March 1987 prices and were
derived jointly by MOC and IDA. Physical contingencies average around 192 of
the base cost. This relatively high physical contingency factor results from
the potential necessity of: (i) drilling wells deeper than anticipated due to
unforeseen reservoir conditions; Uii) more frequent reconditioning of
production equipment; and (iii) diverting pipeline routes due to waterlogging
and river crossings despite efforts to lay the new 18-inch diameter pipeline
parallel to the existing 10-inch diameter pipeline to minimize costs. Price
contingencies average about 11% of the base cost and are based on projected
international inflation and local price increases (essentially for MOC
equipment and wages) as follows: 32 (FY88), 12 (FYs89-91) and 3.5% (FYs92-94)
for foreign costs; and 4% (FY88), 7% (FYs89-90), 6% (FY91) and 5% (PYs92-94)
for local costs. Consultant services to be financed by IDA are estimated to
total 180 man-months at an average cost of US$14,000 per man-month and are
broken down as follows (in man-months): seismic interpretation (18);
corrosion control (54); pipeline inspection (54); distribution system design
(30); and telecommunications/telemetry (24).
Financing Plan
3.22     The financing plan for the project is set out below:
Foreign     Local      Total
…------(US$ million)-------
Project cost                    65.5       34.6      100.1
To be financed by loans:
Proposed IDA credit             63.0        -        63.0
UNDP                             2.5        -          2.5
GOB                                -       34.6      34.6
Total Financing            65.5       34.6     100.1
3.23     The proposed IDA Credit will be extended to GOB on standard IDA terms
and relent to MOC at an interest rate of 7.9%, namely, the current IBRD
lending rate, with GOB assuming the foreign exchange risk; MOC will repay the
loan over 20 years, including five years of grace. The execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and MOC, acceptable to IDA, is a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.24     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOB that all
necessary foreign and local currency funds to complete the project in a timely
manner will be made available to MOC.



- 21 -
Procurement
3,25     The procurement errangements are su,umarized in the table belows
Procurement Table
(in US$ million)
Project Elements                         Procurement Method
ICB          LCB          Other       Total Cost
1. Gas development                  18.6       3.4           21.5            43.5
(18.6)       (-)          (8.0)          (26.6)
2. Gas transmission and
distribution                  18.7        2.3          15.4             36.4
(18.7)       (-)          (6.0)          (24.7)
3. Technical assistance              -           -            6.6             6.6
(a)         (-)          (2.8)           (2.8)
4. Computer software                 -           -            0.6             0.6
(_)        (a)          (0.4)            (0.4)
S. Appraisal Drilling for            4.5       0.8            5.1            10.4
Phase II                      (4.5)       (-)          (2.0)            (6.5)
6. LPG/CNG pilot scheme              2.0          -           0.6             2.6
(2.0)       (-)          (-)             (2.0)
43.8        6.5          49.8           100.1
(43.8)                   (19.2)          (63.0)
Note: FIgures In parentheses are the respective amounts proposed to be financed by IDA. Total
costs Include contingencles. The "Other" category Includes taxes as well as packages to be
procured using LIB, direct contracting, IDA Guidelines on the Use of Consultants and force
account expenditures.
3.26     About US$44 million of materials, equipment and services would be
procured in accordance with IDA's procedures for international competitive
bidding (ICB), which would include IDA's standard domestic preference
clauses. However, it is expected that local bidders would qualify for only a
very small number, if any, of procurement packages earmarked for ICB. Limited
international bidding (LIB) procedures on the basis of at least three
qualified suppliers would also be utilized for: (a) procurement packages whose
estimated value is less than US$300,000 (CIF basis); (b) time-critical items
needed on an urgent basis; and (c) items with limited suppliers such as
specialized seismic, logging and testing services. The aggregate amount of
LIB procurement is not expected to exceed US$15 million. About US$2.0 million
of items of a proprietary nature would be procured through direct contracting
with the suppliers of such goods. These items, which need to be acquired from
the original manufacturer, are mainly spare parts or specific hardware to be
used as "add-ons" to already operational equipment. All items procured
through ICB, LIB and direct contracting (with foreign suppliers only) will be
financed from the proposed IDA Credit.



- 22 -
3.27     Technical assistance totalling US$6.6 million will be provided as
follows: US$2.8 million to be financed by IDA and US$2.5 million to be
financed by UNDP (with IDA as executing agency), for a total of
US$5.3 million, for consulting services which would be obtained in accordance
with IDA's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants; and US$1.3 million equivalent
in local counterpart funds.
3.28     MOC will follow IDA's procedures for ICS or LIB by submitting to IDA
draft bid documents, bid evaluation documents and negotiated contracts prior
to release or award, in respect of procurement of all items estimated to
exceed US$300,000. It is estimated that 90X of ICB and LIS procurement, in
terms of value, will be subject to prior IDA review. For items valued at
US$300,000 and less, IDA's Guidelines for Procurement will be followed but IDA
review will be on a post-award basis.
3.29     Items with an estimated value of about US$6.5 million, which are not
suitable for ICB procedures and are available locally, would be procured by
MOC according to its own local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures.
Appraisal and development drilling, seismic activities and pipeline
construction will be done under MOC force account using MOC's drilling,
seismic and pipeline crews (see para 3.08). IDA will not finance any LCB
procurement or force account expenditures.
3.30    The project is not expected to involve advance contracting or retro-
active financing.
Disbursements
3.31     IDA disbursoment would be made against 1001 of the foreign
expenditures for materials and equipment, as well as for contractors and
foreign consultant services, and 1001 of ex-factory cost for contracts awarded
to local bidders under ICB. The major components of the project are expected
to be completed by mid-1990; some support works and technical assistance may
continue until mid-1993. The disbursement closing date would be December 31,
1993. The estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 3.04.
The disbursement profile essentially conforms with the historical profile as
of October 1985 for Bank/IDA gas projects except for the more rapid rate of
disbursements for the gas field development and the transmission/distribution
components as a result of the lump-sum nature of the procurement for the main
items involved. In order to expedite procurement and disbursements on items
where fast delivery is required, a Special Account would be established with
the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank with an authorized allocation of the equivalent
of SDR3.7 million. This Special Account would be replenished against
withdrawal applications to be submitted by the Borrower at agreed intervals.
Disbursement on the basis of statement of expenditures is not contemplated
under this project.



23 -
Monitoring and Reporting
3.32     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that WOC will submit to
IDA quarterly project progress and procurement status reports, which will
include project accounts and a Report on the Special Account, within 45 days
of the end of each calendar quarter. For this purpose, MOC will collect
relevant data from monthly reports submitted by its various departments and
combine these with project data. These quarterly progress reports will be in
a format agreed with IDA, showing cost estimates, expenditures, procurement
status, disbursements and other necessary information. An outline of the
contents of the quarterly progress reports is provided in Annex 3.05. In
addition, MOC will submit to IDA, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, work schedules, and any other reports and contracts connected
with the project, as well as any modifications on the agreed work programs,
costs and expenditures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
MOC that within six months after the closing date of the Credit or after the
final disbursement, whichever occurs first, MOC will prepare and furnish to
IDA a completion report on the project, dealing with its implementation,
initial operations and the costs and benefits derived and expected to be
derived therefrom.
Ecology and Safety
3.33     No significant environmental problems are expected to result from the
implementation of the project. To the contrary, the project is likely to
result in improved environmental conditions. Since the combustion products of
natural gas are less polluting than those of liquid hydrocarbon fuels (fuel
oil and diesel) to be replaced, the project will contribute to a reduction in
urban pollution level. The pipelines will be buried and therefore pose no
unusual environmental hazard. Appropriate standards and codes of practice
will be followed in the detailed engineering and construction to ensure proper
protection and minimize the likelihood of third party damage. In addition,
this project will substantially reduce the environmental hazards from possible
leakages of the insufficiently protected 10-inch diameter Payagon to Rangoon
high-pressure gas pipeline, which will be provided with adequate cathodic
protection against corrosion under the project. No forest clearance is
involved in implementing the project.
Insurance
3.34     As MOC's assets are spread over a large area in central and southern
Burma, any single loss would be relatively small in comparison with total
assets in operation. HOC, therefore, does not carry a comprehensive insurance
coverage except for motor vehicles and materials in transit. During project
appraisal, the IDA mission stressed upon MOC the need to review its risk expo-
sure in view of the planned expansion of its gas-related assets.  During
negotiations, IDA reviewed with MOC the adequacy of MOC's insurance coverage
in light of its risk exposure and planned expansion program and obtained
assurances from MOC to have all materials and equipment financed under the IDA
credit fully insured while in transit and installation in accordance with IDA
requirements.



- 24 -
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
4.01     MOC operated up to 1980 as an autonomous public company with satis-
factory financial performance and annual dividend payments to GOB for its
equity contribution. After 1980, however, prices for MOC's products and
services were increased at a much slower rate than the increase in MOC's
costs, resulting in large financial losses as from 1981 and MOC's increasing
dependerce on loans from GOB to cover its operating losses. MOC, therefore,
operates like a department under the GOB budgetary system, despite its nominal
status at a financially autonomous commercial entity (see para 2.02). As a
formally Indtependent entity, MOC, in accordance with its commercial accounting
practices (pars 2.06), books all funds received from GOB as debt. Such debts
now exceed the value of total assets, leaving MOC with a negative net value
and technically bankrupt. Other public corporations in the petroleum sector,
such as the Petrochemical Industries Corporation and the Petroleum Products
Supply Coiporation, also have operational losses, but not of the magnitude
found in MOC.
4.02     MOC's financial deficiencies have been caused mainly by insufficient
prices to cover MOC's costs since 1980; a number of measures over several
years would be needed to remedy this situation. In the context of the
proposed project, the increase in the price of Paysgon gas (para 1.20) and
planned reduction in offshore exploration expenditures will improve
significantly MOC's financial position. Further capital restructuring and
revenue-enhancing as well as cost-reducing measures, to be defined in the MOC
Financial Viability Study under the project (para 4.09 and Annex 4.03), are
expected to result in MOC breaking even on a cash basis by 1991 and lead to
full financial viability by the end of the project period.
HOC's Past Financial Performance
4.03     Since FY81, MOC has operated at a net loss, currently amounting to
about K250 million (US$37.8 million) a year. MOC's equity turned negative in
PY83 and MOC has not paid a dividend to COB since FY80. MOC's financial
statements for FYs83-87 are in Annex 4.01; a summary for PYs8O-87 is given
below:
FY Ending 3/31         1980   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986 a/  1987
-------------------ln million kyats…-------------------------
Sales                 393.7  393.6   361.8   357.4   348.7   374.6   374.0   402.7
Operating Exp.        322.2  404.8   4801    935.6 c/ 408.8 c/ 448.7   427.0   453.7
Operating Income (Loss)   71.5   (11.2)  (118.3)  (178.2)   (60.1)   (74.1)   (53.0)   (51.0)
Interest & Exch. Losses   48.3   48.0    95.2    116.8   133.6   136.9   157.3   210.0
Net Income (Loss)      23.2   (59.2)  (213.5)  (295.0)  (193,6)  (211.0)  (210.3)  (261.0)
a/   Provisional.
b/   Based on revised budget for FY87.
c     sDecrease due to changes in accounting procedures (see para 2.06).



- 25 -
4.04     In recent years, MOC has been able to contain the increase in
operating costs to about 5X a year. The main reason for MOC's poor financial
performance is the low prices for its products: about K43 (US$6.50) per
barrel of oil and K2.10 (US$0.32) per thousand cubic feet of gas. Currently,
MOC would need about K60 (US$9.08) per barrel of oil and about K7.0 (US$1.06)
per thousand cubic feet of gas to fully cover its capital and operating
costs. The situation is aggravated by the fact that oil production in Burma
declined during 1986 by about 10% (from a level of about 7.8 million barrels a
year to a level of about 7.0) due to shortages of drilling consumables, which
prevented MOC from attaining the level of infill/development drilling
necessary to offset the natural decline of the oil fields. The situation
would have been worse, however, if old loans from GOB carried the current 8%
interest rate (the rates for old loans are 1% to 6% depending on age and
purpose of the loan) and if natural gas production and revenues had not
increased substantially during recent years.
4.05     MOC's heavy losses and investment expenditures have been covered by
loans from GOB. As of March 31, 1987, long-term debt is estimated to amount
to about K832 million (US$126 million) and short-term debt to about
K(4,200 million (US$635 million) and without continued GOB support, MOC would
be bankrupt. A summary of MOC's current financial position is given below:
1987 a/
(K Million)           X
Net Fixed Assets                           3,144.1            79
Union of Burma Consolidated Fund             292.1             7
Current Assets                               553.9            14
Total Assets                               3,990.1           100
Equity                                    (1,121.9)         (28)
Long-Term Debt                               832.0            21
Short-Term Debt                            4,200.4           105
Accounts Payable                              79.6             2
Total Liabilities                          3,990.1           100
a/   Based on revised budget for FY87.
4.06     According to MOC's accounting practices, only the actual costs of
successful onshore wells are capitalized and depreciated over 10 years.
Unsuccessful onshore wells are expensed during the year of drilling. This
"successful efforts" method is an internationally accepted accounting
practice. However, as from FY83, all offshore exploration and appraisal
expenditures are capitalized and these expenditures will not be amortized and
charged against income until commercial production starts. The carrying of
both unsuccessful and successful exploration expenditures as unamortized
assets for an indefinite period of time, until the related offshore gas dis-
coveries of the successful exploration wells are proven to be commercial and
starts production, is not a generally accepted accounting practice.
Therefore, the value of these offshore expenditures related to unsuccessful



- 26 -
exploration being reported as unamortized assets is questionable and past
losses may have been understated due to this accounting practice. Finally,
the Union of Burma Consolidated Fund (UBCF) cannot be used by MOC without
approval by GOB and has basically remained unchanged in the last decade; it is
a dead asset for MOC.
Measures to Improve HOC's Financial Viability
4.07     The low gas and oil prices and the need to improve MOC's overall
financial structure and performance were discussed with GOB and MOC. During
project pre-appraisal, it was agreed with MOE that the price for Payagon gas
should at least cover all MOC's costs to develop, produce and distribute that
gas. An estimate of the Payagon gas price required for full cost recovery
(including financial costs) is given in Annex 4.02. Subsequently, MOE made a
proposal to GOB to raise the price of existing Payagon gas as from April 1,
1987, to K7.5 (US$1.13) per thousand cubic feet (MCF). This proposal was
accepted by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers in March
1987. The new price of K7.S per MCF for Payagon gas, as compared with the old
price of K2.1 per MCF, will make the proposed project financially attractive
(see pare 4.16) and provide HOC with additional revenues of over K200 million
(US$30.3 million) a year by the end of the project period.
4.08     The new price for Payagon gas is a significant step towards improving
MOC's financial viability. However, further steps will be required to make
MOC's operations break even. As deficits and debt have been accumulating
since 1980, price increases alone, within politically feasible limits, would
not be sufficient to make HOC financially viable. Interest expenses amounted
to about K210 million in 1987 and higher amounts are projected for subsequent
years. A restructuring of MOC's capital base, e.g., by converting debt to GOB
equity, would, thereforet be required together with new revenue-enhancing
measures to make HOC's operations break even. These aspects were discussed
with HOE and HOC, who recommended a cautious approach for the following
reasons: (i) changes in transfer prices would affect the finances of the
Petroleum Industries Corporation, tog Petroleum Products Supply Corporation,
and the Electric Power Corporation - ; (ii) a capital restructuring of HOC
would become a precedent for other public enterprises; and (iii) increases in
oil and gas prices could have an adverse impact on the cost-of-living index.
For these reasons, GOB is not prepared to commit itself at this time to a
timetable for further steps to improve MOC's financial performance before the
impact on the economy of proposed measures resulting from a financial
viability study (discussed immediately below) have been evaluated.
4.09     During appraisal, it was agreed that a Financial Viability Study for
HOC be carried out under the supervision of MOE to: (i) identify measures
that would improve MOC's financial viability; (ii) evaluate the impact of
these measures on HOC and on users of oil and gas; and (iii) propose a
combination of measures that would ensure MOC's financial viability by the end
of the project period. A preliminary report on the findings of this Study
would be made available to IDA for comment within one and a half years after
Credit effectiveness and the final report, including comments from IDA, would
be completed within six months thereafter. The Study's terms of reference,
which were agreed with GOB during negotiations, are provided in Annex 4.03.
I/     Both PIC and PPSC operated at a loss in FY86, but their financial
positions are not as bad as that of MOC.



- 27 -
During negotiations, agreement was also obtained from GOB that: the working
group to undertake this Study would be established not later than by Board
presentation; the working group would provide their preliminary findings to
GOB and IDA for their joint review not later than eighteen months after Credit
effectiveness; the final report incorporating relevant IDA comments would be
completed within two years of Credit effectiveness; and upon completion, the
Study would be submitted to the Ministry of Energy for its review and develop-
ment of a plan of implementation, as appropriate.
Financial Projections
4.10     MOC has accumulated heavy losses during the last eight years and
there are no easy options to remedy this situation. Even if MOC's prices were
set at levels which would allow full recovery of operating costs, the interest
on debt to COB, which in FY87 amounted to about 501 of MOC's total revenues,
would require MOC to borrow new funds. To make MOC's cash flow break even
(i.e., internal cash generation to cover debt service, with new borrowings to
be used only for investment purposes), a combination of measures would be
required as follows: (i) an investment policy emphasizing the development of
known profitable resources; (ii) less funds spent on offshore operations and
other expensive projects with uncertain returns; (iii) revenue-enhancing
measures; and (iv) a capital restructuring of MOC.
4.11     In addition to the new price for Payagon gas, some important steps
have already been taken to improve MOC's finances. HOC is now concentrating
its resources on activities that would be profitable in the near term (e.g.,
development of existing prospects) and is planning to reduce its offshore
exploration and appraisal expenditures from a level of over K150 million per
year in FYs82-88 to about K30 million as from FY89.  Without pre-empting the
outcome of NOC's Financial Viability Study, the FYs8S-94 financial projections
are based on the assumption (see Annex 4.01) that this Study will identify a
mix of further revenue-enhancing measures for implementation as from FY90.
These measures would need to reach a target increase in MOC's revenues of
K400 million per year for MOC to produce, combined with a restructuring of
MOC's capital base, a positive net income (after interest) by FY94. However,
MOC would break even on a cash flow basis in MY92 (see para 4.15). On the
basis of this scenario, HOC would have the following financial results:
FY ending 3/31    1968     1989      1990     1991     1992     1993     1994
-in  mil lon kyats - ------ …
Revenues 8/      461.4    520,6    570.6    670.2    773.0    901.8   1028.2
Operating Costs    386.2    608    061    66.3    6B.5    703.7    729.7
Operating Income   (124.8)   (88.2)   (95.5)   (16.1)    92.5    198.1    298.5
Less: Interest    278.3    348.3    198.3    230.3    249.3    276.3    298.3
Net Income      (403.1)  (436.5)   (293.8)   (246.4)   (156.8)   (78.2)   0.2
a/  Of which revenue-enhancing measures to be Identified: 50 In FY89, 100 In FY 90, 150 In
FY91, 200 In FY92, 300 In FY93 and 400 In FY94 (see AnneX 4.01)
___________________ ~ ~ ~ ~  -   - --      -- --   -    -   --    -  -   --------4_ __ _ __ _ w_ _ __ _ __ _ __



- 28 -
4.12     MOC's planned capital investments in FYs88-92 of about K440 million
per year, in addition to the proposed investments for the Payagon gas project,
would bring MOC's total annual capital construction expenditures in FYs88-94
well above levels achieved in FYs86-87. This may be optimistic, since MOC, in
the recent past, has had to cut its approved investment plans, mainly due to
constraints on foreign exchange. If FYs88-94 capital expenditures are reduced
by K150 million per year, MOC's interest charges would be reduced by about
K90 million per year at the end of the project period.
4.13     MOC's FY94 equity would be about K764 million and its total debt
about K4,925 million --- or a debt/equity ratio of 87/13 --- assuming that
K3,500 million of MOC's short-term debt is converted to equity in FY90 and
K292 million from the Union of Burma Consolidated Fund is used for debt
repayment. For the calculation of this debt/equity ratio, no distinction has
been made between short-term and long-term debt (see Annex 4.01, pars 14).
MOC's Financing Plan
4.14     MOC's projected FYs88-94 funds flow statement is shown in Annex 4.01;
a summary is given below:
FY ending March 31                                             FYs88-94
(K Million)            (M)
Requirements for Capital Construction             3,708.3                100
Net Income Before Interest                           255.4               6.9
Depreciation                                       1,696.4              45.7
Use of Union of Burma Consolidated Fund              292.1               7.9
Total Internal Sources                            2,243.9               60.5
Less:  Increase in Working Capital                    59.8 -/            1.6
Debt Service                               6,278.7             169.3
Net Internal Sources                             (4,094.6)            (110.4)
GOB Equity Contribution                           3,500.0               94.3
New Loans:  Long-Term                                829.6  /           22.4
Short-Term                            3,473.3 a_93.7
TOTAL WET SOURCES                                 3,708.3                100
a/ Short-term debt has been Included under "new loans" as a major source of financing rather
than under "working capital."
4.15     In addition to MOC's internal cash generation for FYs88-94p new
equity and new short-term loans would be required to service and repay part of
MOC's excessive short-term debt. Assuming new equity is made available to
MOC, MOC's annual internal cash generation from FY92 would exceed its debt
servicing requirements. A reduction in MOC's investment program (para 4.12)
would reduce or eliminate the need for new short-term borrowing at the end of
the project period. New long-term loans, including the proposed US$63.0
million IDA Credit and US$2.5 million from UNDP, would be used exclusively for
implementation of the Payagon Gas Development Program (Phases I and II).



- 29 -
Project Financial Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
4.16     The financial IRR of the project is estimated at 13% in real terms
(see Annex 4.04). This estimate may understate the real project benefits, as
the capital expenditures are based on a pipeline size capable of handling
additional gas volumes under Phase II development and Phase II gas revenues
have not been considered incremental to the project. In addition, the gas
price of K7.5 per MCF has been assumed to remain constant in nominal terms
until FY2001, which implies a fall in real terms of over 55X. Even so, the
estimated IRR of 13% is satisfactory, considering that it relates to a
basically low- risk investment as regards demand and price for gas. If the
gas price is maintained at K7.5 per MCF in real terms during the life of the
project, the IRn would be 25Z.
4.17     A sensitivity analysis was carried out indicating that even under a
combination of adverse circumstances (capital and operating expenditures up
10% and revenues down 10%), the project IRR in real terms would not be less
than 9%; the rate of return would not be less than 20% if the gas price is
maintained constant in real terms during the project's life.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Introduction
5.01     The main justification for the proposed project is that it will
result in improved local availability of commercial energy to spur economic
development activity, which has been hindered by growing fuel shortages. Gas
consumers would also benefit from gas as a lower-cost energy source compared
to alternative liquid fuels. Additional benefits from the use of natural gas
include the elimination of storage requirements and inventory costs, its
greater combustion efficiency compared to liquid fuels, and its clean-burning
properties. Benefits from the project also include the identification of
options to enhance oil recovery and tap the vast waxy crude deposits, and the
introduction of urgently needed modern petroleum engineering techniques to
optimize petroleum extraction. From the sectoral point of view, equally
important benefits include initiatives at gas pricing policy reform and
financial restructuring of MOC, as well as the strengthening of local
capabilities to plan investments and formulate a development policy for the
gas subsector.
Economic Evaluation
5.02     The economic viability of the Payagon Gas Development Program (PGDP)
and of the project (Phase I of PGDP) has been evaluated by comparing their
costs and benefits valued from the perspective of the national economy. The
PGDP's investment stream and incremental operating costs (see Annex 3.03) are
the least-cost approach to raising Payagon production to meet demand forecasts
at a required level of system reliability. The principal benefit stream is
represented by the economic value of the gas produced under different sets of
border price values over time for the alternative fuels to be substituted for
by gas.



- 30 -
5.03     Project Benefits. The appraisal mission reviewed in detail MOC's gas
demand forecast, as presented in Annex 5.01. Gas volumes up to FY96 were
based on MOC's forecast of firm gas sales for existing and committed gas con-
sumers. During the late 1990., it is estimated that gas demand would grow at
an average annual rate of around 8X, covering further increases in existing
consumption, step-wise growth in the power sector, and new industrial and
possibly commercial/residential uses. From the year 2001 onwards, the level
of demand is projected to remain stable since all the major gas substitutions
would have been already completed. The structure of power, industrial and
refinery gas demand is such that Payagon gas will substitute for diesel and
fuel oil in the following ratios (diesel:fuel oil): (i) for the PGDP as a
whole, 60:40 for FY91; an increasing share of fuel oil starting in FY92 and
reaching 40:60 by FY2000; and stable shares at 40:60 from FY2001 to FY2008;
and (ii) 60:40 for the project taken in isolation, reflecting gas substitution
for diesel as first priority.
5.04     In the absence of investments associated with the proposed project,
the existing 10-inch diameter pipeline may be expected to be out of commission
by the early 1990s due to the absence of cathodic protection against
corrosion, as discussed in Annex 3.02. Until it is provided cathodic
protection and rectified satisfactorily, this pipeline, though operative, will
remain prone to major breakdowns. Therefore, since the new 18-inch diameter
pipeline will guarantee security of supply, and since the 10-inch diameter
pipeline upon completion of cathodic protection and rectification works will
be operating reliably as an integral part of the transmission system, the full
average-day Payagon gas offtake constitute incremental benefits to the PGDP as
whole. Separate analysis on the proportion of this average-day offtake
attributable to Phase I alone has also been conducted.
5.05     In switching to natural gas, additional benefits would accrue from
reduced operating costs (maintenance, fuel handling and storage). For
inefficient industries, and less so for power and cement plants with
frequently maintained sophisticated burners, increased thermal efficiency due
to gas use would result in around 5 increase in benefits. These, however,
have not been factored into the economic rate of return calculations given the
already high rates obtained.
5.06     Product Price Assumptions.  On the basis of World Bank projections
for international crude oil prices, border price values (CIF Rangoon, ex-
Singapore) for the two liquid fuels to be substituted for by gas (diesel and
fuel oil) were derived by adjusting these crude oil prices by fixed product-
to-crude price margins. These margins are estimated to remain constant on the
assumption that, on a worldwide basis, as the recent shut-down of uneconomic
units are completed and a better balance between refining capacity and demand
is achieved, the refining margins in terms of product-to-crude price ratios
will be more stable. The ratios used in the economic analysis are
conservatively lower than current refining margins. The projected product
values were further adjusted for a freight differential. Annex 5.02 provides
details on the assumptions used for crude oil prices and product values in the
project economic evaluation.
5.07     Project Costs.  The appraisal mission reviewed GOB's detailed
investment plans for the gas subsector, with a view to agreeing with GOB on
priority investment activities. The mission concluded that the full



- 31 -
development of Payagon is essentially the long-term gas subsector investment
program due to the serious lack of financial and technical resources to
undertake activities other than those planned under PGDP. The selection
criteria for delivering Payagon gas at least cost are discussed in Annex
3.02. Cost estimates for PGDP and for its Phase I (the project) are-in
constant 1987 US dollars, net of taxes and duties and inclusive of an average
191 physical contingencies (para 3.20).
Economic Rate of Return (EMR)
5.08     As shown in Annex 5.02, ERRs for the P6DP as a whole and for its
Phase I (the project) were calculated on the basis of 2 sets of price
assumptions: (i) projected product values based on World Bank international
crude oil price projections and fixed product-to-crude price margins, as
discussed above; and (ii) diesel and fuel oil prices prevailing in early-
December 1986, which were the lowest ever in the past 10 years, that is, fuel
oil at US$50/metric ton (mt) or US$7.41/bbl, and diesel at US$100/mt or
US$13.19/bbl, including the freight 4ifferentials. The resulting ERRs are as
follows:
Economic Rates of Return
At Projected Product         At Lowest
Values           Historical Prices
Payagon Gas Development Program              591                    33Z
The Project (Phase I of PGDP)                721                    461
a/ Conservatively assumed to Increase at average annual real rates of 1,0% and 0.5% for diesel
and fuel oil, respectively,
The project's high economic rates of return are due to the relatively low gas
production costs, the proven productivity of the Payagon gas field, the high
rate of well deliverability, the proximity of gas markets in Rangoon and
southern Burma, and the assured domestic markets for gas.
Sensitivity Analyses
5.09     Given the high project ERRa, even at the lowest historical prices of
substitute liquid fuels, no further sensitivity analysis on prices of liquid
fuels was carried out. Sensitivity to cost overruns were also not considered
due to the adequate level of physical contingencies incorporated in the
project cost estimates (para 3.20) as well as the depressed state of the
international petroleum service industry, which is expected to remain for the
duration of the project implementation period. There appears to be no
rationale for testing the project's economic viability against projected gas
demand not materializing, since the level of suppressed commercial energy
demand is very high in Burma.



- 32 -
Long-run Marginal Cost (LRMC)
5.10     One of the project's main objectives is to ensure that the price
charged for Payagon gas is sufficient to cover, at the minimum, the long-run
marginal cost of the Payagon Gas Development Program (PGDP). Depending on the
discount rate used, the LRMC for the PGDP (see Annex 5.03) ranges from US$0.62
to US$0.79 per MCF, delivered to the consumer. These figures represent the
minimum boundary to price levels if the marginal economic cost of supplying
Payagon gas is to be fully covered. The gas price level of K7.50 (US$1.13)
per MCF decided upon by GOB more than guarantees this coverage and at the same
time achieves the objective of making PGDP a financially viable operation for
MOC. As provided for under the Gas Utilization Study, gas prices will be
reviewed in light of new estimates of unconstrained gas demand and incremental
costs for necessary field development and further expansion of the gas
transmission and distribution network. The Study will also review the
marginal cost of Payagon gas to major consumer categories, with a view to
assessing in the Burmese context the relative merits of a uniform versus
differential gas pricing structure as well as the need for future adjustments
in the gas price level.
5.11     Being a gas-surplus country, with sufficient reserves to last around
150 years on the basis of current demand projections and onshore/offshore gas
reserves of 4.8 TCF in the south, a depletion premium is either insignificant
or inappropriate in the case of Burma. Even under a conservative assumption
based on onshore Payagon reserves alone, the depletion premium would be around
US$0.12/MCP (KO.79/MCF), which, when added to the US$1/MCF minimum required to
achieve full cost recovery (see para 1.20), is well within the gas price level
decided by GOB. This assumption, however, would not hold since the appraisal
drilling component of the project is expected to firm up more Payagon
reserves.
Project Risks
5.12     As illustrated above, the economic risks are limited.  The geological
risks of the project are small since the presence and deliverability of gas
have already been established from earlier production in the Payagon area.
Technical risks related to reserves appraisal are low and would be further
minimized by doing seismic work before or in conjunction with drilling in
order to limit the number of dry delineation wells. GOB has consistently
attached high importance to the project since it will help alleviate within a
relatively short period of time one of the economy's primary shortages, thus
minimizing the risk of slow project implementation.



- 33 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, the following agreements and assurances were
obtained:
From the Government (COB) that
(a)    it will review with IDA the progress and results of the Gas
Utilization Study (para 1.19);
(b)    the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and
MOC, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (para 3.23)
(c)    all necessary foreign and local currency funds to complete the
project in a timely manner will be made available to MOC (para
3.24);
(d)    the establishment of a working group to undertake the MOC
financial viability study will be a condition of Board
presentation; the working group will provide its preliminary
findings to COB and IDA for their joint review not later than
eighteen months after Credit effectiveness; the final report
incorporating relevant IDA comments will be completed within
two years after Credit effectiveness; and the completed study
will be submitted to the Ministry of Energy for its review and
development of a plan of implementation, as appropriate (para
4.09);
From the Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC) that
(e)    it will submit to IDA its unaudited accounts within nine
months, and the corresponding audit report, including a report
on the Special Account, not later than twelve months, of the
end of MOC's fiscal year (para 2.08);
(f)    during supervision missions, HOC will furnish to IDA for its
review and comment MOC's proposals for the locations of future
development and appraisal wells as well as seismic programs,
and that at regular intervals, MOC will also review with IDA
staff the seismic, well drilling and testing results and
consequent updating of the reserve calculations; MOC will
review with IDA the progress and results of the Enhanced Oil
Recovery Studies (para 3.10);
(g)    it will prepare a detailed plan for implementing the LPG/CNG
pilot operation for IDA review and comment not later than
three months after Credit effectiveness (para 3.13);
(h)    it will submit to IDA quarterly project progress and
procurement status reports, as well as project accounts and a
report on the Special Account, within 45 days of the end of
each quarter(para 3.32);



- 34 -
(i)    it will prepare and furnish to IDA a completion report on the
project, within six months after the closing date of the
Credit or after the final disbursement, whichever occurs first
(para 3*32); and
(j)    it will have all materials and equipment financed under the
Credit fully insured while in transit and installation (para
3.34).
6.02     During negotiations, IDA also obtained GOB confirmation of the
Payagon gas price increase (para 1.21), as well as GOB agreement on: (i) the
final terms of reference for the Gas Utilization Study (para 1.19), the
Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies (para 3.14), and the MOC Financial Viability
Study (pare 4.09); and (ii) the detailed components of a formal training
program for MOC and the Energy Planning Department of the Ministry of Energy
(par& 3.15).



ANNEX 1.01
Page 1 of 3
BURMA GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Background Information on the Oil and Gas Sector
1.       Oil was first recovered in Burma at least one thousand years ago,
when collection started from wells dug by hand near surface seepages.
Drilling started in the 1880s, and Burmah Oil Company (BOC) made a first
discovery in 1887 at Yenangyaung. Further drilling on the same trend
discovered more structures, the last one being Minbu in 1916. During the
1920s and 1930s, exploration was severely curtailed due to low prices and
restricted demand; production of the discovered fields reached a pre-Worid War
1I level of around 20,000 barrels per day. During the war, the BOC fields
were badly damaged and had to be redrilled during the 1950s to restore
production.
2.       Exploration.  In 1963, BOC was nationalized and its assets taken over
by the Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC). MOC resumed exploration surveys and
drilling mainly in Central Burma and the Upper Delta Basin. Initially, only
small-size oil and gas fields were discovered but in 1970, a sizeable
extension to Minbu, the large Mann field, was found. This discovery added
substantially to MOC's reserves and prompted an intensification of the
exploration effort, which was also extended to the Hkaung Valley and Chindwin
basins north of the known productive areas. Major finds in the following
years were Htaukshabin in 1978 and the Pagan, Tuyingtaing, Tetma and Payagon
Croup (?TTP) in 1981; both are situated in the Central Burma basin.
Exploration towards the north failed to yield substantial reserves; towards
the south, however, in the Martaban offshore area, MOC using its own drilling
barge discovered the large "D" gas field in 1983. Simultaneous exploration in
the onshore area resulted in locating a group of medium-size, gas-bearing
structures in the Payagon area. Based on the low maturity of the exploration
effort for the diffevent plays in Burma's sedimentary basins, substantial
possibilities for further discoveries remain. There is potential especially
for further non-associated gas finds in the Lower Delta area and in the
onshore/offshore area between Payagon and Structure "D".
3.       MOC's exploration is carried out by their own seismic crews.  The
four crews work only during the five to six dry months of the year and average
a total of some 450 km per year. The corresponding 20 km per crew month is
very low by world standards, even considering the difficult terrain conditions
facing the two MOC crews working in the lower delta area.
4.       MOC has 45 drilling rigs in operation, which in 1983 drilled about
270 wells. Of these, 30 were exploratory wells and the remaining 240 were
development wells. For the fiscal year 1987, the number of wells planned has
plummeted alarmingly. The total number planned is 104 wells, of which 10 are
exploratory wells. The main reason for this decrease, according to MOC, is
the lack of foreign exchange for tubulars and other drilling consumables. In
fact, some drilling rigs are busy recuperating casing from abandoned wells to
be used at new locations.
5.       Geology of Payagon.  Geologically, the Payagon area is characterized
by draping of younger formations over old basement highs, which are situated
at a depth of over 15,000 feet. The younger formations are mainly alternating
sand and shale deposits of Tertiary (Miocene) age. The main structural



- 36 -                          ANNEX 1.01
-Page 2 of 3
elements can be conveniently mapped by seismic exploration; however,
individual sand reservoirs, which are sometimes discontinuous because of their
deltaic sedimentation, are yet inadequately delineated by this method. In the
general Payagon area, five individual highs have been recognized, of which two
have been found to have commercially exploitable gas reservoirs. Gas
reservoir sands are situated at various depths from 4,600 to 9,000 feet with
thicknesses ranging from 20 to 100 feet. Porosities decrease from 25X for the
shallow sands to 15X for the deeper sands. The two sands which are currently
producing are the 4,600-feet sand at the D structure and the 7,700-feet sand
on the A structure. The discovery well flowed at a rate of 6.5 million cubic
feet per day (MMCFD) and 200 barrels (bbl) of 60°API gravity condensate.
6.       Oil and Gas Reserves.  Currently, the oil reserves of Burma are
estimated at over 2 billion barrels, including condensates. A major part of
these reserves, or around 800 million barrels (MMbbl), are located in the
newly-discovered PTTP group of fields in the Central Burma Basin. The older
fields in this basin still contain 637 MMbbl of the original 1,070 MMbbl. The
remaincwr of the reserves are in the Chindwin basin (120 MMbbl) and in the
Upper Delta Basin (100 MMbbl). Total gas reserves in Burma are currently
evaluated at some 10 trillion cubic feet (TCF). The predominance of gas over
oil increases towards the south. The major gas reserves are located in the
offshore "D" structure (4 TCF) and the Payagon area (0.8 TCF). These
structures contain essentially non-associated gas while structures in Central
Burma and the Upper Delta Basin contain nearly 2 TCF of gas in mainly oil-
bearing reservoirs (associated gas).
7.       Production.  Oil production in Burma is characterized by the
disparity between the rather large reserves and the continuously low and
falling oil production. The current oil production of 25,300 barrels per day
(bpd) in June 1986 has declined from the 26,850 bpd level in 1983,
notwithstanding the large reserves, of which some 25Z has been developed for
production. This means that each year, only 2X of the developed reserves are
produced. For gas, this percentage is equally low; however, gas production
has increased significantly over recent years. The low and declining ratio of
oil production versus reserves suggests that, while MOC's exploration efforts
are sufficient to firm up reserves in the ground, the ensuing appraisal and
production efforts are insufficient to allow removal of these reserves to the
surface on a commensurate scale.
8.       The above-mentioned decrease in drilling activity will further
compound other production constraints that Burma is confronted with, namely:
(a) the high wax content and/or high viscosity of the crude oil in many
reservoirs, which severely impedes the flow of oil towards and into the bore
hole; (b) the shallow position of many reservoirs with correspondingly low
formation pressures; and (c) the presence of clay particles in the reservoir
sands that tend to swell in contact with fresh water drilling mud, thus
reducing the permeability of the reservoir. As a consequence, the production
decline of the wells will be steep and many new wells will have to be drilled
each year just to maintain production at the current level. To offset the
decrease in the drilling of production wells, MOC intends to put more emphasis
on workover operations of old wells, and where possible, by bringing shallower
sands in production. However, the decline in drilling will ultimately reduce
MOC's inventory of producing wells, leading to an unavoidable, steeper cut in
oil production.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1.01
Page 3 of 3
9.       Gas production, which is less hampered by the above-mentioned adverse
reservoir conditions, has shown a healthy increase over recent years.
Production in FY84 was averaging 49.8 MMCFD, while during FY86 a level of
117 MMCFD was reached. This production increase comes mainly from the fields
in the Upper and Lower Delta Basins, including production from the Payagon
field. The increased gas production has resulted in growth of total
hydrocarbon energy production in Burma from 36,150 to 44,785 barrels of oil
equivalent per day between FY84 and PY86.
10.      Operational Strategy.  MOC has achieved very good results in the
exploration and initial production phases, especially when considering the
limited resources available. There is no doubt about the general level of
technical competence of its management and staff. However, apart from
assistance by Schlumberger in well services and occasional studies financed by
bilateral aid from Germany and Norway, all these activities are carried out
internally. By and large, these are done adequately, but there are areas
where improvements are necessary if Burma wants to use its vast potential for
increased oil production. Particular areas of improvement include drilling
and reservoir engineering, including training of staff in reservoir management
and production optimization. Experienced foreign consultants should first
evaluate the present situation and advise MOC on where and how its drilling
and production technologies can be improved. Recommendations should be tested
in field pilot applications.
11.      If these studies and tests show that improvements are possible, their
full-scale application may place too much strain on Burma's capital and
manpower resources, At that point, very serious consideration should be given
to entering into service contracts with foreign oil companies. With proper
technological and financial assistance, Burma should be able to bring more
reserves into production and, with advanced production management, raise the
oil production level from the current 25,000 bpd to 50,000 bpd by the mid-
1990s. In view of the large oil and gas reserves, of which only a minor part
has been developed, exploration drilling can be decreased for some years to
allow the concentration of available drilling resources on the appraisal and
development of oil fields.



- 38 -                       ANNEX 1.02
Page 1 of 6
BURMA - GAS DBV LOPMRNT AID UTILIZATION PROJECT
NATURAL GAS UTILIZATIOP STUDY
Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.       Burma's sizeable natural gas resources can play a major role in
promoting growth and development of the Burmese economy. Despite the capacity
to meet increasing domestic energy requirements at relatively low cost,
current energy consumption levels are low in relation to available potential
and the development of the natural gas delivery system is at its early
stages. While there is a clear need to transform the natural gas subsector
into a major driving force behind economic growth, it is essential that scarce
financial resources be allocated to their best use, that is, in priority in-
vestments that yield maximum benefits to the national economy. Optimal re-
source allocation requires a dynamic policy and planning decision framework
for the gas subsector that is closely linked to the achievement of macro-
economic objectives. This framework, in turn, needs to be firmly supported by
quantitative analytical tools for formulating gas subsector investment
strategies. The Government of Burma (GOB), therefore, has decided to conduct
a Gas Utilization Study with the following main objectivest
(a) provide firm estimates of natural gas supplies, both associated
and non-associated, and assess production potential over time;
(b) develop a quantitative model for continuous assessment and fore-
casting of natural gas demand; identify gas network requirements
to meet demand by region and by consuming sector, as well as any
supply/demand imbalances;
(c) evaluate the technical feasibility and the economic value of ga-
among alternative uses; recomoend an optimal allocation among
these uses in a manner that maximizes cost efficiency and
national benefits; and on this basis, recommend a sequence of
priority investments; and
(d) in conjunction with the above, prepare a quantitative gas
planning and policy analysis framework that permits updating and
revision as parameters affecting investment decisions change;
and train GOB counterparts in the model's full operation.
This study will be financed by the United Nations Development Program under
the Gas Development and Utilization Project between the Government of Burma
and the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank Croup,
with the latter acting as executing agency.



- 39 -                     ANNEX 1.02
Page 2 of 6
8cope of the Study
2.       To meet the objectives of this Study, the consultant is expected to
carry out the following specific tasks:
SupljL Assessment
(a)  (i)  evaluate available data on gas reserves, both associated
and non-associated, offshore and onshore, and provide a
firm set of reserve estimates, focusing on the following
four onshore regions (and/or by other appropriate geo-
graphic classification as required):
Region I -
North Ayadaw/Chauk/Yenangyaung/Mann/Htaukshabin/Peppi
Region II - Myiyde/Pyalo/Prome
Region III - Htantabin/Kyangin/Myanaung/Shwepyitha
Region IV - Payagon/Rangoon/Hmawbi/syriam
(ii)  review crude oil reserve data and gas/oil ratios to
evaluate associated gas supplies;
(iii) estimate the potential role of discovered but undeveloped
gas fields, as well as potential and possible reserves; and
(iv)  assess the production capacity and deliverability of
potential sources of supply, including LPG and flared gas;
Demand Projections
(b)  (i)  prepare forecasts for unconstrained gas demand over the
short (up to 5 years), medium (between 6 to 10 years) and
long term (beyond 10 years) in accordance with GOB Economic
Plan periods, covering the same regional classifications as
in 2(a)(i) above and all major uses, both existing and
potential, either as incremental demand or as substitute
for liquid fuels, including power, fertilizer, refining,
cement, industry (disaggregated), as well as new uses in
transport (LPG/CNG), agriculture, commercial/residential;
(ii)  delineate key macroeconomic, demographic and other
historical determinants of demand growth in each use,
taking into full account the existing large unsatisfied
energy demand;
(iii) update the results of the export marketing study that was
part of the 1984 Martaban Offshore Gas Pre-Investment
Study, with a view to assessing, in the Burmese context
where proven gas resources are in excess of long-term
domestic demand requirements, the economic potential for
export-oriented gas uses such as petrochemicals;
(iv)  prepare an explicit methodology and a quantitative model
for monitoring changes in demand patterns and revising
demand projections on a periodic basis; and



- 40 -                  ANNEX 1.02
Page 3 of 6
(v) undertake survey/s as required to fill in any gaps in
. available data;
(c)  (i)  project gas supply/demand balances by region and consuming
sector;
(ii) project requirements for gas-based export industries, if
warranted from the updating of the export marketing study
in 2(b)(iii) above; and
(iii) take into full account technical parameters in the
operations of the major end-users, such as the technical
feasibility of converting existing users of liquid fuels to
natural gas, average and peak production capacity, and
field infrastructure requirements particularly where
supply/demand imbalances are identified;
Cas Allocation
(d)    based on 2(c) above,
(i) analyze the technical feasibility as well as the financial
and economic costs and benefits of alternative gas
development and utilization scenarios; and
(ii) provide estimates of the investments required to increase
supplies from existing gas fields and/or develop new fields
as may be required to satisfy projected average and peak
demandt and for corresponding gas delivery network
requirements;
(e)  Mi)  determine the most likely value of gas in each alternative
use and its sensitivity to the assumptions made;
(ii) take explicit account of the level and structure of retail
petroleum product prices vis-a-vis comparative border
prices over time, and the effect of these on gas sub-
stitution, as well as make suggestions on economic pricing
of petroleum products; and
(iii) determine the optimum gas allocation, as well as the
economic price path of gas, among existing uses and alter-
native future projects or project packages so as to
maximize national benefits, based on the gas reserves
scenario determined above, and possibly based on other
supply scenarios to be agreed with GOB prior to the
commencement of the Study (for example, relative emphasis
between onshore versus offshore gas development);



ANNEX 1.02
- 41 -                        Page 4 of6
Gas Utilization Plan
(f)    based on the results of 2(d) and 2(e) above:
(i) rank projects or project packages;
(ii) recommend an optimal sequence of investments;
(iii) review the institutional and training requirements to
implement these investments and to effectively manage over
the long term a rapidly growing gas subsector;
(iv) recommend internationally accepted gas industry codes as
well as standards for safety, supply, transport,
accounting, evaluation and validation, etc; and
(v) review and comment on any potential constraints to
implementing the recommended gas allocation posed by
existing regulatory measures and procedures;
(g)  (i)  conduct sensitivity tests on supply, demand, international
petroleum prices, energy demand management, and other para-
meters;
(h)  (i)  compare explicity the economic price path of gas under the
optimum allocation scenario with existing gas prices, with
a view to maintaining the full cost recovery principle
being applied by the Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC); and
(ii) review the long-run marginal cost of Payagon gas
development and the relevance, if any, of applying a
depletion premium, calculate marginal cost to major
consumer categories, and assess the relative merits in the
Burmese context of a uniform versus differential gas tariff
structure.
Major Output Expected
3.       Since GOB's fundamental aim is to map out and implement a short- to
medium-term gas supply allocation and investment strategy, the concrete output
of this Gas Utilization Study should highlight:  (a) gas supply/demand
balances over time by region and consuming sector; (b) a ranking, based on
optimal resource allocation criteria, of alternative investment programs for
gas appraisal, development, production, delivery systems and market develop-
ment; (c) gas network analysis for gas transport systems and a map of the
required infrastructure for the recommended investment strategy; (d) codes and
standards for the Burmese gas industry; (e) an empirically based, quantitative
gas supply/demand forecasting, economic allocation and investment planning
model that permits easy update and revision as determinants change over time;
and (f) an action plan for implementing the optimal investment plan, including
gas market development, the establishment of an organizational structure
suitable for effective management of Burma's gas subsector, and training
programs, where required. A high priority will be placed on the development
of a replicable planning framework for future operational use by GOB, making



- 42 -                       ANNX 1.02
it essential that the consultants organize the analysis around either a micro-
computer- or mainframe-based model to be left with the Ministry of Energy
(MtE) and the MOC upon completion of the Study.
Methodology
4.       In the proposal, the consultant should delineate clearly the
methodology to be adopted in carrying out the Study. Special attention should
be given to: (i) agreeing with GOB and IDA before commencement of the Study
the international crude oil and petroleum product price assumptions over time
to be used in the Study; (ii) marginal and total costs at each stage of
exploration, development, transmission, distribution, conversion to gas, and
end-use (i.e., from field to burner tip); (iii) distinguishing between the
relative cost of additional gas produced for average and peak demand; (iv) the
substitutability of gas use over time; (v) complementarities in gas
investment, making inappropriate the comparison of alternative projects as if
they were mutually exclusive; (vi) the trade-offs between alternative time
profiles for a given project package; (vii) the ranking criteria used (e.g.,
netbacks or project package(s) net present values); and (viii) the basic
methodological problem that the economic price path of gas, which is necessary
for ranking, is in itself dependent on the set of projects selected. The
proposal should indicate the degree of user disaggregation proposed (e.g.,
industry subdivisions, comercial activities, residential locations, etc.).
The analysis should also take explicit account of the cost of gas substitutes,
location-specific costs of delivering alternative inputs/outputs, conversion
costs for existing plants and *easonality of demand (load factors). For each
of the supply scenarios, the marginal supply cost and time profile of capacity
availability will be agreed with GOB. The consultant, where necessary, will
be required to estimate marginal investment costs to a 201 level of accuracy,
taking into account local conditions.
Organizational Support and Data Availability
5.       GOB will assist the consultant in obtaining the necessary data.  A
small, high-level Task Force comprised of officials from the Ministry of
Energy, the Ministry of Planning and Finance, the Myanma Oil Corporation, the
Electric Power Corporation, the Petrochemical Industries Corporation, the
Petroleum Products Supply Corporation, and possibly others, will be
established with the main objective of facilitating data procurement from the
various energy entities and other sources as required, as well as surveys that
may be necessary to fill in data gaps. In order to avoid duplicating work
already done, the consultants should make full use of available information
(updating where necessary) including MOC's gas reserve and other technical
data, the Joint UNDP/World Dank Energy Assessment Report, the Martaban Off-
shore Gas Pre-Investment Study, and others. At the same time, a core Vorkin8
Group comprised of MOE and MOC staff will be established to work closely with
the consultants during the course of the Study with the main purpose of
learning the assumptions, construction and full operations of the gas
supply/demand balances, allocation and investment planning model. MOC will be
providing the consultants access to its computing facilities for this
purpose. Importance will be given to close interaction among MOE/MOC staff,
the Task Force and Working Group for the Study, other local counterparts and
the consultants, during the course of implementing the Study, so that future
users are fully familiar with the work in progress and the model's
assumptions, features and operations.



43                         ANNEX 1.02
Page 6 of 6
Timetable and Reporting Requirements
6.       The Myanma Oil Corporation will be in charge of supervising the Study
in the field. It is estimated that the Study would require about 60 staff-
months and 18 months to complete. The consultant selected for the Study will
supply GOB with a detailed schedule of work and information requirements at
commencement. Immediately thereafter, the consultants and GOB shall agree on
the work program, elaborate on the proposed methodology, agree on specific
outputs from the Study and establish the nature and timing of assistance to be
provided by GOB as well as timing of proposed additional formal consultations.
7.       An interim report shall be submitted 6 months and a draft final
report 12 months after commencement to GOB and IDA for review. It is expected
that a final report would be ready by the end of 18 months after commencement
for review and discussion with IDA and GOB. All information generated by the
Study is to be treated as strictly confidential with IDA and GOB.
Staffing
8.       It is expected that this Study will require high-level staff with
extensive field experience of at least 15 years in the following areas of
expertise: (i) gas economics, demand analysis, valuation and allocation
methodology, and policy; (ii) geology, reservoir engineering and supply
projections; (iii) natural gas engineering, system planning and economics; and
(iv) gas utility operations. The Gas Economist would lead the Project Team
and would be primarily responsible for the preparation of a computer-based gas
planning framework.



ANNEX 3.01
Page 1 of 9
BURMA GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY STUDIES (CHAUK AND TETMA FIELDS)
Terms of Reference 1/
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY APPLICATIONS
IN CHAUK FIELD, BURMA
I.       INTRODUCTION
1.       The Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC) is interested in acquiring the
services of consultants of repute to perform a Feasibility Study on the appli-
cation of Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) processes for improving oil recovery
from the Chauk Field.
2.       Location.  Chauk Oil Field is located at approximately Latitude 20°
54' N and Longitude 94° 49' E in Central Burma.
3.       Background.  The Chauk Field was discovered in 1902.  It is situated
in the Central Burma basin and covers approximately 10.2 square miles. The
field has an estimated original oil-in-place of about 400 million barrels
(Mlbbl). It has produced 145.3 MMbbl from 1,568 wells. The reservoir studies
were performed in 1960. The initial average production was 4.09 MMbbl/year in
the early 1940s but has declined to 0.33 MNbbl/year by 1985.
4.       Geoloy. Chauk Oil Field is a thrusted asymmetrical anticline.  The
structure was dissected by many cross faults.  Oil accumulation is found in
suprathrust Oligocene formation. Commercial gas accumulation has been dis-
covered in subthrust Oligocene.
5.       Quality of Oil.  The oil contained in Oligocene reservoir in Chauk
Field has a specific gravity of 39.8° API, wax content of 7.2%, pour point of
80°F, and nil sulphur content. Surface viscosity of crude is 1.51 centipoise
at 100'F. The reservoirs have been penetrated by 1,568 wells through
1,640 feet (500 meters) of productive formations. The depth of the reservoirs
is between 1,500 feet (457 meters) and 4,000 feet (1,200 meters).
6.       Based on the studies undertaken by MOC, the original oil-in-place is
estimated at 400 MMbbl. The production potential by primary recovery is
expected at 151.5 MMbbl. It is expected that Enhanced Oil Recovery processes
are likely to improve ultimate recovery from these reservoirs.
II.      SCOPE OF THE STUDY
7.       The prime objective of the Study is to determine for each reservoir
the most suitable engineering and economic proposition, which would merit a
pilot test and ultimately lead to full-scale field application.
I/ Excluding annexures.



ANNEX 3.01
- 45 ~                     Page 2 of 9
8.       The consultant will review the data supplied by MOC; study the
geology, petrophysics, reservoir engineering, phase behavior, thermodynamics,
etc.; and develop various physical and mathematical models to evaluate the
results of various EOR methods.
9.       The consultant will develop and define a comprehensive methodology,
including engineering study, of an EOR system in the Chauk Field.
10.      The consultant will provide practical training to MOC personnel
throughout the various phases of the Study, at the field in Chauk, as well as
at the consultant's home office facilities.
11.      The consultant will provide financial and economic analysis, testing
the rate oi return for various processes and their application against incre-
mental production.
III.     DETAILED ASSIGNMENT
12.      General.  To ensure the achievement of the Study's objectives, the
consultant w ll provide the services of highly qualified and experienced
personnel to carry out various aspects of this Study. The consultant will
carry out the assignment using modern techniques, latest technology and
industry standards. The consultant will work in close cooperation with MOC
personnel assigned to this project, and will keep the MOC management fully
informed of the progress of the Study. The consultant will review the
reservoir studies performed to date by HOC and, if necessary, recommend to
make reservoir studies if a reservoir study update is necessary prior to a
thermal recovery process study.
13.      Data Gathering.  The consultant will gather the available data fre
HOC, and arrange and supervise the collection of additional data as
required. The consultant will discuss and agree with MOC as to the procedure
for the collection/transmittal of existing data and the acquisition and tralTs-
mittal of any additional data. The consultant will inventory all data. All
data including microfilms, tapes, etc., shall be returned to MOC after the
completion of the Study.
14.      The consultants will review the data available, and may recommend
collection of additional data, including additional logging and coring; sub-
surface reservoir and well data; and further laboratory analysis. The
consultant will spell out the additional information required at an early
stage, including cost and timing, and will present these requirements to MOC
for agreement.
15.      Approach.  The Chauk Oil Field has reached maturity in its production
life, the water cut is increasing and the overall production level is
declining. The consultant will, therefore, evaluate the relevance and
applicability of various EOR methods. However, application of these methods
involves substantial capital outlay and carries considerable technical risk,
particularly in view of the characteristics and uncertainties of many EOR
processes. Therefore, before considering any field application, it would be
necessary to undertake a staged Feasibility Study, which should follow the
classical approach of: (a) screening the various EOR methods; (b) conducting
a Feasibility Study; (c) laboratory experiments; (4) application of one or



-46-                            ANNEX 3.01
Page 3 of 9
more processes on a pilot scale; and (e) field application of the most suit-
able EOR process or processes. The data contained and the conclusion arrived
at in an updated reservoir study could also be an important input for EOR
pilot project design.
IV.      STAGES OF STUDY
16.      The Study will be carried out in three stages.  The scope of these
stages will be as defined below:
STAGE I
17.      Pre-Feasibility Study.  The consultant will review the data, screen
the various EOR methods, conduct the laboratory experiments and, based there-
on, develop three scenarios for at least two accredited EOR methods considered
suitable for various types of oil reservoirs of the Chauk Field. The
consultant will further study the technical feasibility and economic viability
of the selected EOR methods in order to determine the most viable enhanced
recovery process, while also ensuring the training of MOC personnel in these
processes during the course of the Study.
18.      The consultant will prepare a draft pre-feasibility report, dis-
cussing the analysis of various options, results and recommendations,
including economic analysis. The consultant will spell out the recommen-
dations for the selection of one or more EOR processes for pilot tests.
19.      The consultant will make a presentation at a meeting with MOC dis-
cussing the review, analysis and recommendations contained in the draft pre-
feasibility report. The final selection of EOR process/processes shall also
be made at this meeting.
STAGE II
20.      Pilot Test(s).  After the final selection of the optimum EOR method,
a pilot test or tests shall be conducted for a physical demonstration of the
selected process. The consultant will prepare an engineering study that will
cover process definition, engineering designs, equipment and material speci-
fications, and implementation schedule for a pilot project (including data
collection and interpretation, as well as capital and operating cost
estimates, separately indicating local and foreign currency components).
21.      The consultant will assist MOC in the selection of a pilot test site,
procurement of equipment, materials, services, installation, commissioning,
operation, data collection and monitoring of the pilot project.
22.      Traiing.  The consultant will assess the training requirements of
MOC staff within and outside Burma and develop a comprehensive training
program, including components, cost and timing. The training program will
also include visits by MOC technical staff to oil fields in foreign countries
experiencing problems similar to the Chauk Field and where application of
recommended EOR processes have been successful.



- 47                            ANNEX 3.01
Page 4 of 9
STAGE III: Final Study
23.      Data Integration.  The consultant will integrate the data acquired
from the pilot test, and will carry out the final evaluation for an EOR
program for field-wide applications.
24.      Models and Recommendations.  The consultant will develop various
models, defining in detail the available alternatives, and spell out the
recommendations for the most effective EOR process to maximize recovery,
including time spans, recovery rates and economic benefits.
25.      Process Definition.  The consultant will design and define, in
detail, the recommended EOR process or processes, including but not limited to
flow diagrams, estimated recovery rates, reservoir management and monitoring
techniques and all other parameters.
26.      Engineering Design.  The consultant will carry out the detailed
engineering design of equipment and facilities required for EOR programs,
including but Pat limited to optimum sizing of equipment and ancillary
facilities, metering system, equipment and material specifications, bid
documents suitable for international bidding, and capital and operating cost
estimates for individual components and the entire project (indicating the
foreign exchange and local currency cost components).
27.      Technical Assistance and Training.  The consultant will provide the
complete technical assistance during the implementation stage of the project,
and such assistance will include the consultant's work at the field and home
office support services. The consultant will also review and update the
training programs including components, cost, timing, etc.
28.      Project Schedule.  The consultant will prepare the project
implementation schedule, fully considering weather conditions, delivery of
material and equipment and all other relevant factors.
29.      Economic Analysis.  The economic analysis should follow discounted
cash flow techniques. The streams of total costs, in economic terms, should
be developed. The consultant will calculate the internal economic rate of
return of the project based on the economic cost and benefit streams.
V.       TIMETABLE AND REPORTING RBQUIREMENTS
30.      Review Meetings.  The number of review meetings will depend on the
results of the feasibility study.  Meetings considered necessary by the
consultant or MOC will be discussed and agreed to by both parties. In
principle, the timing of these planned meetings shall be as follows:
(a) Stage I: The first review meeting shall be held at the
consultant's home office, at the end of the pre-feasibility
study.
(b) Stage II: The second review meeting will be held after
completion of the preliminary pilot design, at a venue to be
designated by MOC.



ANNEX 3.01
- 48 -                          Page 5 of 9
A review meting will be held prior to the start of the pilot
operation and further meetings will be planned as necessary to
monitor its operations at a venue to be designated by MOC.
31.      It is estimated that the feasibility study would require 60 staff-
months and about 12 months to complete. The consultant selected for the study
will supply the Government of Burma (GOB) with a detailed schedule of work and
information requirements at commencement. Immediately thereafter, the
consultants and GOB shall agree on the work program, elaborate on the proposed
methodology, agree on specific outputs from the study and establish the nature
and timing of assistance to be provided by GOB as well as timing of proposed
additional formal consultations.
32.      An interim report shall be submitted six months and a draft final
report nine months after commencement to GOB and the International Development
Association (IDA) for review. It is expected that a final report on the
feasibility study would be ready by the end of 12 months after commencement of
the study for review and discussions with GOB and IDA. The consultant will
submit ten (10) copies of the final report to MOC and two (2) copies to IDA.
The consultant will also forward to MOC all computer output and return all the
data received from MOC.
33.      All information generated by the study is to be treated as strictly
confidential with IDA and MOC.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THERMAL RECOVERY PROCESSES FOR
IMPROVING OIL RECOVERY IN TETMA OIL FIELD
I .      INTRODUCTION
1.       The Hyanma Oil Corporation is interested in acquiring the services of
consultants of repute to perform a Feasibility Study on the application of
thermal recovery processes for improving oil recovery from the Tetma Field.
2.       Location.  Tetma Field is located at approximately Latitude 200 58' N
and Longitude 95° 00' E in Central Burma.
3.       Background.  The Tetma Field was discovered in 1982.  It is situated
in the Central Burma Basin and covers approximately 0.30 square miles. The
field has an estimated original oil-in-place of about 185.6 million barrels
(MMbbl). It has produced 0.138 MNbbl from five wells. The initial production
by pumping from discovery well no. 2 was 92 barrels of oil per day (bopd) and
14 barrels of water per day (bwpd), which has declined to 40 bopd and 90 bwpd
in 1986. Altogether there are about 13 proved sands with a total net pay
thickness of about 595 feet (181 meters).
4.       Geology.  Tetma Oil Field is situated on the Tuyintaung-Pagan Hill-
Natpalin-Tetma-Gwegyo-Payagyigon-Ngashandaung-Nyaunggon geological anti-
cline. It is the second line of structure east of the well known proved oil
province of Yenangyat-Lanywa-Chauk-Yenangyaung-Nann-Htaukshabin structural
trend.



- 49                   ~~~~~~ANNEX 3.01
Page 6 of 9
S.       Quality of Oil.  The oil contained in Oligocene reservoir in the
Tetma Field has a specific gravity of 340 API, pour point of 100°F, and nil
sulphur content. Surface viscosity of crude is 2.18 centipoise at 210'F. The
reservoirs have been penetrated by five wells through 595 feet (181 meters) of
productive formations. The depth of the reservoir is between 1,000 feet
(305 meters) and 3,450 feet (1,052 meters).
6.       Based on the studies undertaken by MOC, the original oil-in-place is
estimated at 185.6 MMbbl. The production potential by primary recovery is
expected at 9.28 MMbbl. It is expected that thermal recovery processes are
likely to improve ultimate recovery from these reservoirs.
II.      SCOPE OF THE STUDY
7.       The prime objective of the Study is to determine for each reservoir
the most suitable engineering and economic proposition, which would merit a
pilot test and ultimately lead to full-scale field application.
8.       The consultant will conduct a thorough review of the data available
with MOC.  The consultant will identify the missing data and make recommen-
dations for obtaining it.
9.       The consultant will use the data in a petrophysical computer model to
assist in the interpretation of reservoir description and its petrophysical
characteristics using all available data and petrophysical analyses.
10.      The consultant will make geological evaluation and draw structure
contour and other maps.
11.      The consultant will estimate oil-in-place and ultimate recoverable
reserves.
12.      The consultant will provide the estimated optimal recovery from the
reservoir using numerical simulation models and compare and evaluate
recoveries using various thermal recovery processes.
13.      Based on the results of the reservoir study, the consultant will
prepare a Feasibility Study of the pilot project in Tetma reservoir, taking
into consideration: (i) state-of-the-art thermal recovery process technology;
(ii) technological aspects; (iii) flexibility of the operations taking into
consideration the local conditions; (iv) availability of injection fluids; (v)
quality of produced fluid and its handling; and (vi) economic viability.
III.     DETAILED ASSIGNMENT
14.      General.  To ensure the achievement of the Study's objectives, the
consultant will provide the services of highly qualified and experienced
personnel to carry out various aspects of this Study. The consultant will
carry out the assignment using modern techniques, latest technology and
industry standards. The consultant will work in close cooperation with MOC
personnel assigned to this project, and will keep MOC management fully
informed of the progress of the Study. The consultant will review the
reservoir studies performed to date by MOC and, if necessary, recommend to
make reservoir studies if a reservoir study update is necessary prior to a
thermal recovery process study.



ANNEX 3.01
Page 7 of 9
15.      Data Gathering.  The selected consultant will gather the available
data from MOC, as well as arrange and supervise the collection of additional
data as required. The consultant will discuss and agree with HOC as to the
procedure for the collection/transmittal of existing data and the acquisition
and transmittal of any additional data. The consultant will inventory all
data. All data, including microfilms, tapes, etc., shall be returned to MOC
after the completion of the Study.
16.      The consultant will review the data available, and may recommend
collection of additional data, including additional logging and coring; sub-
surface reservoir and well data; and further laboratory analysis. The
consultants will spell out the additional information required at an early
stage, including cost and timing, and present these requirements to MOC for
agreement.
17.      Approach.  The consultants will evaluate the relevance and
applicability of various thermal recovery processes, i.e.: (i) cyclic steam
stimulation; (ii) stream drive; (iii) initial cyclic stimulation converted to
steam drive; (iv) in situ combustion; and (v) any other method, or combination
of methods.
iV.      STAGES OF THE STUDY
18.      The study wnll be carried out in three stages.  The scope of these
stages will be defined as below:
STAGE I
19.      Pre-Feasibilit  Study.  The consultant will review the data, screen
the various thermal recovery methods, conduct the laboratory experiments and,
based thereon, choose the thermal recovery process considered suitable for the
Tetma Field. The consultant will further study the technical feasibility and
economic viability of the selected methods, and also ensure training of MOC
personnel during the course of implementing this study.
20.      The consultant will prepare a draft pre-feasibility report, dis-
cussing the analysis of various alternatives and options, results and
recommendations, including economic analysis. These results will be discussed
in a review meeting.
STAGE II
21.      The consultant will spell out the recommendations for the selection
of one or more thermal recovery processes for pilot tests if these are
evaluated to be economically viable. The preliminary selection of
process/processes shall be made at a second review meeting.  The final report
on the feasibility study will be available at that time.
22.      After the final selection of the thermal recovery method, the
consultant will prepare an engineering study and such study will cover process
definition, engineering design, equipment and material specifications, and
implementation schedule for a pilot project (including data collection and
interpretation, as well as capital and operating cost estimates, separately
indicating local and foreign currency components).



ANNEX 3.01
- 51 -                          Page 8 of 9
23.      The consultant will assist MOC in the selection of a pilot test site,
procurement of equipment, materials and services, installationt commissioning,
operation, data collection and monitoring of the pilot project.
24.      Training.  The consultant will assess the training requirements of
MOC staff within and outside Burma and develop a comprehensive training
program, including components, cost and timing. The training program will
also include visits by MOC technical staff to oil fields in foreign countries
experiencing problems similar to the Tetma Field and where application of
recommended thermal recovery processes have been successful.
STAGE III: Implementation of the Pilot Test
25.      Data Integration.  The consultant will monitor the running of the
pilot test and integrate the data acquired from the pilot test, and will carry
out the final evaluation for a thermal recovery program for field wide-
applications.
26.      Models and Recommendations.  The consultant will develop various
models, define in detail the available alternatives, and spell out the
recommendations for the most effective thermal recovery process to maximize
recovery, including time spans, recovery rates and economic benefits.
27.      Process Definition.  If economic benefits can reasonably be expected,
the consultant will design and define, in detail, the recommended process or
processes, including but not limited to, flow diagrams, estimated recovery
rates, reservoir management and monitoring techniques, and all other
parameters.
28.      Engineering Design.  The consultant will carry out the detailed
engineering design of equipment and facilities required for a thermal recovery
program, including but not limited to optimum sizing of equipment and
ancillary facilities, metering system, equipment and material specifications,
bid documents suitable for international bidding, and capital and operating
cost estimates for individual components and the entire project (indicating
the foreign exchange and local currency cost components).
29.      Technical Assistance and Training.  The consultant will provide the
complete technical assistance during the implementation stage of the project,
and such assistance will include the consultant's work at the field and home
office support services. The consultant will also review and update the
training programs including components, cost, timing, etc.
30.      Project Schedule.  The consultant will prepare the project
implementation schedulet fully considering weather conditioni, delivery of
material and equipment, and all other relevant factors.
31.      Economic Analysis.  The economic analysis should follow discounted
cash flow techniques. The streams of total costs, in economic terms, should
be developed. The consultant will calculate the internal economic rate of
return of the project based on the economic cost and benefit streams.



- 52                          ANNEX 3.01
-52-                            Page 9 of 9
32.      Review Meetings.  The consultant will plan three initial meetings.
Any additional meetings considered necessary by the consultant or MOC will be
discussed and agreed to by both parties. The timing of these planned meetings
shall be as follows:
(a) The first review meeting shall be held at the end of the pre-
feasibility study.
(b) The second review meeting will be held after completion of the
preliminary design of the pilot test.
(c) A third review meeting shall be held after construction, but
before the start of operations of the field pilot. Additional
meetings during the pilot application will be scheduled as
necessary.
V.       TIMETABLE AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
33.      It is estimated that the Study would require 60 staff-months and
12 months to complete. The consultant selected for the Study will supply the
Government of Burma (GOB) with a detailed schedule of work and information
requirements at commencement. Immediately thereafter, the consultants and COB
shall agree on the work program, elaborate on the proposed methodology, agree
on specific outputs from the Study and establish the nature and timing of
assistance to be provided by GOB, as well as timing of proposed additional
formal consultations.
34.      An interim report shall be submitted six months and a draft final
report nine months after commencement to GOB and the International Development
Association (IDA) for review. It is expected that a final report would be
ready by the end of 12 months after commencement for review and discussion
with GOB and IDA. The consultant will submit ten (10) copies of the final
report to MOC and two (2) copies to IDA.  The consultant will also forward to
MOC all computer output and return all the data received from MOC.
35.      All information generated by the Study is to be treated as strictly
confidential with IDA and MOC.



- 53 -                           ANNEX 3.02
BURMA GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Selection Criteria for 18-inch Diameter
Payagon to Rangoon Transmission Pipeline
1.       The appraisal mission evaluated total transmission and distribution
requirements to deliver gas from the Payagon field on the basis of the Payagon
Gas Development Program (PGDP) and projected gas demand over a 20-year horizon
for Rangoon and southern Burma. Gas demand is projected to grow to 65 WMCFD
by 1990, and reach 90 MMCFD by the mid-1990s, and taper off at 120 MMCFD from
2001 onwards.
2.       The existing 10-inch diameter pipeline, which was not equipped with
cathodic protection against corrosion when it was built due to lack of foreign
currency, is already operating at full capacity (30 MMCFD). While the
appraisal mission's inspection of its above ground installations and
construction records, prima facie, indicated overall satisfactory condition,
underground corrosion is a likely eventuality. Cathodic protection under the
project to arrest further deterioration as well as further inspection and
rectification works to be done by MOC is essential to enable this pipeline to
function reliably as part of the entire gas transmission system and thereby to
meet the full projected demand by the year 2000 of 120 peak MMCFD for Rangoon
and southern Burma.
3.       The option of revalidating the existing 10-inch diameter pipeline
(30 MMCFD capacity) and selecting smaller additional pipeline sizes was not
considered feasible since this would involve exposing the entire pipeline
length over the short dry weather windows available each year; serious load-
shedding for the Rangoon area over prolonged periods would result. Safe and
steady operation of this pipeline with minimized risk of service interruptions
cannot be assured until cathodic protection and rectification works are
completed. Gas demand by 1990 is projected at 65 MMCFD, reaching around
90 MMCFD by the mid-1990s. In evaluating the additional 90 MMCFD of peak
capacity required, various pipeline sizes operating under free flow or with
compression were considered and evaluated in detail with MOC. A 14-inch dia-
meter pipeline was not recommended since its capacity of 45 MMCFD under free
flow would not be sufficient to meet demand of 65 MNCPD by 1990; an
excessively high compression ratio would otherwise be required. A 16-inch
diameter pipeline, under a free flow of 65 MMCFD, would be insufficient to
meet gas demand approaching 90 MMCFD towards 1995. While compression would
enable this 16-inch diameter pipeline to deliver 90 MMCFD, the cost of
compression and back-up facilities is nearly equal to the additional cost of
selecting an 18-inch diameter pipeline instead. Operating cost of the 16-inch
diameter pipeline with compression, however, would be significantly higher
than the operation of an 18-inch diameter pipeline under free flow. For these
technical, as well as economic reasons, an 18-inch diameter pipeline was
selected as the least-cost option since it will be able to meet demand with an
assured level of system reliability up to the mid-1990s. Upon completion of
cathodic protection and rectification works on the existing pipeline, it will
function as an integral part of the transmission system, which will deliver
120 MKCFD towards the year 2000 (i.e., 30 MMCFD and 90 MMCPD of peak
capacities for the existing and 18-inch diameter pipelines, respectively).



PAYAGO  GAS EVELOPMN  PROAM   (POP) *PHASES I AD I
COMPONENTS OF BASE COSTS (in 1986 US$ sillion)
FIELD COSTS
FY endirn9 Match 31           198           1989          19.O          1991          192          13            194            TOTALS
F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L*C*
1. Gas Field Developwent
a. Seisnic                   0.6   0,4   0.5   0.4   0.Z   0.1    0.6   1.5   0.3    1.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    2.2   3.7
of which: Phase I         0.6   0.4    0.5   0.4    0.2   0.1   0.2   0.2                                                  1.5   1.1
Phase II                                                  0.4   1.3   0.3    1.3                                 0.7   2.6
b. Develoment drillinr/
Reserve Appraisal         2.0    1.2   4.9   3.4   3.1   2.0   4,8    5.7   3.2   4.6   1.6   2.3   0.0   0.0  19.6  19.2
of which PhaseI           2.0   1.2   4.9   3.4   3.1   2.0   1.8   1.2   0.2   0.1                                       12.0   7.9
Phase!!                                                   3,0    4.5   3.0   4.5   1.6   2.3                     7.6   11.3
c. Production Facilities     0.0    0.0   1.3   0.6    2.7   149   3.8   2.4   3.2   1.2   2.5   1.1   2.0    0.9  15.5   9.1
of which: Phase 1                       13    0.6   2.7    1.9   2.8   1.8   0.2   0.1                                     7.0   4.4
Phase I                                                   1.0   0.6   3.0   1.1   2.5   1.1   2.0   0.9   8.5   3.7
d. Tramport                  0.5   0.3    1.0  05    1.3   0.5   3.2   1.3   3.0    1.2   2.0   0.6   0.0   0.0  11.0   4.4
of whieh? Phse T          0.5   0.3   1.0   0.5   1.3   0.5   1.2   0.7   1.0   0.6   0.0                                  5.0   2.6
Phase TI                                                  2.0   0.6    2.0   0*6   2.0   0.6                     6.0   1.0
3. LPGAX6 Pilot Schem             0.2           0,4   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.1                          1.5   0.5
of which Phs  I           0.2           0.4   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.1                          1.S    0.5
Phase                                                                                                            o .o°   0.0
PHASE I TOTMLS:                   3.3   1.   8o1   5.0   7.6   4,6   6.2   4.Q    1.6   0.9   0.2   0.1    0.0   0.0  27.0  16.5
PHASE TT TOTALS                   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.4   7.0   8.3   7.5   6.1   4.0   2.0   0.9  22.8  19.4
P6DP TOTALS:                      3.3    1.9   8.1    5.0   7,6   4.6  12.6  11.0   9,9    9.4   6.3   4.1   2.0   0    49.9  35,9



tNlaS9     m  DISTRiUT   CamSTS
Ft mndije Heath 31           1998          i 99         1990         1°91         l992         1993          1994        t19f         196            9?7      TOTALS
F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  LC   F.C.L. LC.  F.C.  L,C.  F.C,  L.Ce.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C,  F.C.  L.C.
~uI:
18'i1ws -Bmo                 1t8   0.7   6.8   3.1   3.3   1,9   2.0   Ot.   0.6   0.5                                                                           14.5   7.0
Yaw Citv ClA  Srttic                       1.4   0.?  O.    0.3                                                                                                  1.5   1.0
Cathodic Pttdetimn to? 10'    0,4   0.2   0.4  Ot   0.7   0.2                                                                                                    1.5   0.5
Distifitie  DelaWnt           0,1   O.t   0.4   0.1   0.8   0.1   0.2   0.2                                                                                       1.5   0.5
nmfl
12' YT.a-Sittwi                                                       4.5   2.3   4.0   5.0                                                                       9.5   ?.3
lo- Sitgj)!p                                                                       2.5   1.5   2.5   2.5                                                          5,0   4.0
s' Thatot-finple                                                                                1.5   t.0           1.0                                           1.5   2.0
OIhst                                                                 2.0   1.5   0.8   0.4   0.8   0.4   0.8   0.4   0.7   0.3   0.5   0.1   0.5   0.1   6.1   3.2
FE  I TOTALS:                    2.3   1.0   9.0   4.0   4.9   2.5   2.2   1.0   0.6   0.5   0.0   ao.0   0.0   0.0   0,0   ao    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  19.0   9.0                      a
mE U TOTALS:                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   n0,   0.0   6.5   3.8   7.3   6.9   4.8   3.9   0.8   1.4   0.7   0.3   0.5   O1t   0.5   041  21.1  16.5                       a
POP TOTALS:                      2.3   1.0   9,0   4,0   4.°   2.5   8.7   4.8   7.9   7.4   4.9   3.9   0.8   1.4   0.7   0.3   0.5   0.1   0.5   0*1  40.1   Ms
TEOUIaM  W/TDEASF
FY vrdinm Iath 31           1im8          1m            1990         l91          192          1t            1994          TOTALS
F.C.  L.C.  f.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L,C.  f.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.  F.C.  L.C.
Oil I Cm  a/             0.7      2   1,2   0.4   1.1   0.2   0.8   0.2   0.5   0.1   0.3   0.l   0.1                 4.7   1.2
Ga  b/                   0.4   0,2   0.8   0.3   0.8   O.t   0.5   0.2   0.5   0.t   0.3   0.1   O.t                  3.4   140
VAts
a/ Corwes*nd, to th  full tehical asistance 9a9 *ida Phse I.
bl Exrldes oil-lted studies.



CR0 TOTALS FMI FP    I AI n UAE C8STS
FY a" inw tlw   31           1988          1989         19           199           1992         1993         1994          1995         1996         1997
Capital Costs (PtOP) a/          9.1          27.2         20.5         37.8          34.2        t1*5           5,2          1.0           0.6          0.6 (erd)
PIbu I                        91           27.2         20.5         14.1           4.2          0*7          0.1          0.0           0,0          0.0
Phse                          0.0          0.0           0.0         23.7          30.0         18.8          5.1          t.0           0.6          0.6
Total OC (PlDP) bf               0.0          0,0           0.0          1.9          2.2           2.2          3.2          3*2           3.2          3.2 (uotil FT2ZO)
Pmmse I                       0.0           0.0          0.0          1,9           2.2          2.2          2.2          2.2           2.2          2.2
Phae IU                       0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0           0,0          0.0          1.0           1.0          1.0          1.0
tarid Totals (PlOP)              9.1         27,2          20.5         39,7         36.4          21.?          8.4          4*2           3.8          3,8
Pb., I                        9.1          27.2         20.5         16+0           6.4          2,9          2.3           2.2          2*2          2.2
Phse n                        0.0           O.Q          0.0         23.7          30.0         18.          6.1           240          1.6          t.6
Ibtes:
a! Amwl totals eomprise bath foreign and local eurrmev components5 including taxes and dutiest befote any phWsical or price contincies are applied.
bf Swrce: NM
'Io
0W
P9.0



PAYAGON GAS DEOPET  PROAI: PHASE I
SWM    OF PROaECT COSTS (US$ million)
FY ending Iarch 31                1988          1m            1990          1991          l9            1993         1994         Y94 TOTALS
FC    LC      FC    LC    FC    IC    FC    LE    FC    LC    FC    IC    FC    LC    FC                LC
1. Field Costs                            3.3    1.9  81    5.0    7.6   4.6   6.2    4.0   146   0.9    0.2   0.1                       27.0   16.5
2. Gas Transmission and Distribution      2.3   1M0    Q,0    4.0   4.9    2.5    2.2    1*0   0.6   0.5                                  19.0    9.0
3. Technical Assistance  a/              07    0.2    1.2   0.4   1.1   0.2   0.8   0.2   0.5   0.1    0*3   0.1   0.1                    4.7    1.2
Total Base Cost                           6.3   3.1   18.3   9*4  13.6   7.3   9.2   5.2    2.7   1.5    0.5   0.2   0.1    0*0  50.7  26.7
Plus: Physical Contin9mncies bt           1.3   0.3   4,6   1.1   3.4   0.8    1.8   0.5    0*5   0,2   0.1                                11.7    2.?
Subtotal                           7.6    3.4  22.9  10.5  17.0    8.1   11.0   5.    3.2   1.7   0.6   0.2   0.1    0.0  62.4  29*6
Plusi: Price Continqmncies  b!            0.2   0.1    0.9    1.2   0,?    1.5    0.7   1.5   0,3    0.6   0.1    0.1                      3.1   5.0
TOtAL PRO&ECT COST                       7.0   3.5  23.8  11*?  17.9    9*6  11.7   7.2   3.5   2.3   0.7   0.3    0*1   0.0  65.5   34.6
Noe:
aJ the proiect includes oil-related technical assistance and studies. A total of USS 2.5 million will be financed by the United Nations Dmlopmnt Proaa.
b/  The levels of phvsical and price coinqencies applied are explained in C:hapter m.
Ii 
IJ%O



AMNEX 3.04
58 -                          Page 1 of 2
BURNA - GAS DEVELOPMNET AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements -
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                   Amount                         Cumulative
and Semester                    Disbursed                   Amount         Z
1988   II                           13.9                      13.9        22.1
1989   I                            11.6                      25.5        40.5
II                           10.0                      35.5       56.3
1990   I                             8.6                      44.1        70.0
II                            7.2                      51.3       81.3
1991   I                             5.7                      56.9        90.3
II                            3.9                      60.8       96.4
1992   I                             1.6                      62.4        98.9
II                            0.3                      62.7       99.4
1993   I                             0.2                      62.8        99.7
II                            0.1                      62.9       99.8
1994   I                             0.1                      63.0       100.0



O          -    i ME ir -  UTeDIg 7    PROJC
SSNEBI_ PRILE  lS Ti (in 1986 U  eillionl
vowrs tree Bad approvad date)   YEAR I      YEAR   2     EN 3        YEAR 4      YEAR 5       YEW 6        EA 7        TOTALS
St    S2    1t   S2    St    S2    St    52    SI    52    St    S2    St    S2
ALL "EUS ¶ GTAS PROF   (W
PFr su1ssteW                       0.0  t2.0  14.0  tt.0  12.0  11.0  '.0  9.0   7.0   5.0   5.0   3.0   2.0            100.0
CeIAtiv, - sestitl                0.0  12.0  26.0  3V-0  49.0  60.0  69.0  76.O  65.0  90.0  95.0  96.0 100.0           100.0
-_ 1ws                        12.0        25.0         23.0        16.0         12.0         S.0          2.0 100.0
PROJECT tam: (2)
Pr emste                          0.0  22.1  18.4  15.9  13.6  11.3   9.0   6.1   2.5   0.5   0.2  0.2   0.2            tO0.0
Cisultiw - sstet*l               0.0  22.1  40.5  56.3  70.0  61.3  90.3  96.4  98.'  99.4  99-'  99.6 100.0 te100
- _1ml                        22.1        34.3         25.0        15.1          3.1         0.4         0.2 100.0
mECt COMTS (In 1966 USS mkllai$
GMFY VAmd     11 3t           19118        16          190          9t          tm          19m          1994      fM-" Tas
S    _mtwn                      St    S2    St    52    51    S2    S1    92    S1    52    5t    S2    St    52    St    B2            nowT
1. aSF Fidd4 Osuleu
Profile                        0.0   2.5   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.5   2.5   t.4   0.0   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   9.  t10.6               20.5
sasleiave,                     0.0   2.5   5.4   6.3  11.2  14.1  16.6  19.1  20.5  20.5  20.S  20.5  20.5  20.5
2. C  Traei ssla sad  lstrilhAtien
PofIle                         0.0   2,3   5.0   4,0   2.7   2.2   1.6   0.6   0.4   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   9.7   9.3               19.0
CAIVU                          o.e   2.3   J.3  ft#3  14.0  16.2  17.B  18.4  10.6  19.0  19.0  19.0  U.-0  19.Q
3. Tedctical Assistance a/
PrWfll                         0.0   0.6   0.4   0.3  0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   O.t   0.t   0.1   0.1   0.0   1.2   1.6                2.6
tuowatlve                      0.0   0,6   1.0   t.3   t.6   t.9   2.1   2.3   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.7   2.6   2.8
4. Apasal Drllin
Profi                          0.0   0.6   1.0   0.9   o.9   0.6   0.5   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.4   2.6               5.0
OmilAtiv                       0.0   0.6   1.6   2.5   3.4   4.0   4.5   5.0   5+0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
5. LP/O  Pilot Sdt.
Protile                        0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.7   0.6               1.5
Cwlstive                       0.0   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   0.9   I.0   1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.5   1.5
TOTAL UE COSTS                       0.0   6.2   9.5   6.3   7.0   6.1   4.9   3.9   2.1   0.4   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.o  23.'  25.1               46.9
Plus: psical Contin,ecls bt       0.0   1.2   2.4   2.1   1.6   1.5   1.0   0.6   0.4   0.1                               5.6   5.7           U.3
sITOT                                0,0   7.4  11.9  1D.4   8.9   7.6   5.9   4.7   2.5   0.5   0.2   0.2   0.1  0.0  29.3  30.e                60.1                 U
Plus: Price Coitinuncius  b/      0.0   0.3  05   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.2                                      1.5   1.4            2.9
TOTAL PROMECT COSTS                  0.0   7.'  12.4  10.6   9.2   8.0      6.3   5.0   2.7   0.5   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.0  30.9  32.z            63.0
IN DA Ff TOM   c/              0.0  13.9  11.6  10.0   6.6   7.2   5.7   3.9   1.6   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1   o.0  27.7  35.4              63.0
Copulative - smestral          0.0  13.9  25.5  35.5  44.1  51.3  56.4  60.8  62.4  62.7  62.9  62.9  63.0  63.0                          63.0
-  Iul                    13.9         21.6        15.8          9.5         1..          0.3        0.0                         63.0
ftes:
a, Amounts excelude vS.2.5 *illion to be finaneed by the IMited Nations Develoment Poram.
bf The levels at phycl ad price centinAwncies alied ate explained in Chaptr m.
at to translate into IDA fiscal vea: using the figures based on the G  fiscal vear. one-halt of the imediatelv folloaing semester is added to the current semster.
tAich in turn is halt of its original value since half hs been added to the i_oeiatelv Creedin. semester.



ANNEX 3.05
- 60 -                           Page 1 of 4
BURMA
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1.       The following information is required to be reported periodically to
the International Development Association (IDA) in relation to the progress of
work on the 7roject and the operations of the Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC).
2.       During the implementation of the project, quarterly reports should be
submitted to IDA within 45 days of the end of each calendar quarter covering:
(a) technical progress; (b) cost estimates, expenditures and disbursements;
(c) project accounts; and (d) management and operations.
3.       MOC is also required to send, within six months after the closing
date of the Credit or the final disbursement, whichever occurs first, a
Completion Report on the project summarizing the initial operations and
implementation experience with the project, as well as costs/benefits derived
therefrom.
I.   Quarterly Technical Progress Reports
4.       This report should cover the following:
)    work accomplished during the reporting period;
Cii)    a comparison between the planned and actual progress;
(iii)    changes, events or conditions which would materially delay the
construction of the project or increase its cost and the
Borrower's proposed remedies, if any;
(iv)    changes in key personnel; and
(v)    expected completion date.
5.       Such quarterly technical progress report shall concentrate on the
main components of the project, broken down as follows:
Gas Field Development
(a) Seismic equipment and services
(b) Development drilling progress and results
(c) Production surface facilities
(d) Transport equipment and vessels
Gas Transmission and Distribution
(a) 18-inch diameter transmission pipeline
(b) Ywama city gate station, customer meter
stations and conversion equipment



ANNEX 3.05
- 61 -                           Page 2 of 4
(c) Cathodic protection for the 10-inch diameter pipeline
(d) Basic distribution development for Rangoon
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
(a) Seismic interpretation
(b) Corrosion control
(c) Pipeline inspection
(d) Distribution system design
(e) Telecommunications/telemetering,
SCADA and computer software
(f) Gas Utilization Study
(g) Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies
(h) Training
Appraisal Drilling for Phase II
LPC/CNG Pilot Scheme
Progress of construction should be covered in the text of the report and show"
graphically in charts.
II. Implementation Schedule
6.       A chart showing planned and actual progress on each of the principal
components referred to above shall be presented. Simplified CPM or PERT
diagrams can be presented with the chart to give a comprehensive picture of
the schedule.
III. Schedule of Orders and Deliveries
7.       A schedule of orders and deliveries for majors items of equipment
shall be presented in the following forms
-    Description of the item/s
-    Date of bid invitation
-    Date of order
-    Name and address of supplier
-    Contract amount
-    Delivery dates (original/revised/actual)
The schedule shall list major items for which orders have been placed or bid
invitations issued, and those for which bid invitations are scheduled to be
issued in the next quarter. The amount in the currency of the contract shall
be shown as well as its equivalent in US dollars, to be rounded to the nearest
equivalent thousand US dollars.
IV. Quarterly Report on Cost Estimates, Expenditures and Commitments
Statement
8.       This report consists of one table to be submitted with, and cover the
same period as, the technical progress report. The figures of original
estimated costs should be those used in the corresponding tables submitted to
IDA.



ANNEX 3.05
- 62 -                           Page 3 of 4
9.       The table should show any substantial changes in the cost estimates
that have become necessary since the previous report. The reasons for such
changes should be explained in the text of the report. Estimates should be
reviewed and, if necessary, revised periodically. Such revisions may be
necessary after important contracts have been awarded.
10.      The table shall include the following:
A)   Foreign Costs
-  Original Estimate                      (1)
-  Revised estimate                       (2)
- Disbursements
Previous quarter                   (3)
This quarter                       (4)
Total                              (5) - (3 + 4)
-  Balance of outstanding commitments   (6)
-  Total                                 (7) a (5 + 6)
-  Remaining costs to complete project  (8) - (2 - 7)
B)  Local Costs
Same as in (A) above.
V.  Quarterly Report on Management and Operations
II.      This should be a narrative report, supplemented by graphs or
schedules, if necessary. The subjects to be covered are:
(i)    changes in key personnel;
(ii)    changes in the organization of MOC;
(iii)    arrangements for financing the project including overruns;
(iv)    development of the training program for MOC staff and its
implications;
(v)    any significant problems or developments in MOC's general
operations.
VI. Project Completion Report
12.      The project completion report is a comprehensive review of the extent
to which objectives and expectations at the time the Credit was made have
been, or sbow promise of being, achieved.  For each major project component,
the original cost estimate and construction time should be compared with the
actual result, with comments on the reasons for any major deviations. Non-
physical objectives, (e.g. tiraining, studies, installation of new accounting
systems) should also be reviewed and the degree of accomplishment described,
with an analysis of the reasons for any delays or lack of success.
13.      The report should also cover whenever appropriate:
(a) the major problems (e.g. physical, financial, management) which
have arisen, why they arose, and what was done to solve them or
minimise their effects;
(b) the performance of consultants and contractors;



- 63 -                           ANNEX 3.05
Page 4 of 4
(c) any unusual features of procurement or disbursement;
(d) any specific procedures of IDA which gave rise to problems;
(e) staffing and training aspects of the project;
(f) any deviation from the original financing plan and reasons;
(g) any problems or changes of an environmental or sociological
nature;
(h) the financial results of operations during the project execution
(e.g. sales, operating expenses, operating income) and the
actual financial position and prospects of MOC; and
(i) any actions that need to be taken in order to maximise the
benefits from the project (e.g. complementary investments,
further technical training or advisory services).
In brief, the report should review the appraisal of the project in light of
events to date in order to determine if the original basic assumptions and
judgments have turned out to be substantially correct.
VII. Financial Reperting
14.      Project accounts specifying the foreign and local costs for each
project component, and a report on the Special Account, will be prepared and
submitted together with the quarterly progress reports. MOC's unaudited
accounts (income statement, balance sheet and funds flow itatement in the
format indicated in Annex 4.01), will be submitted to IDA within nine months
of the end of MOC's fiscal year; these accounts, including the Special
Account, will be audited annually and submitted to IDA not later than three
months thereafter.



- 64 -                             ANNEX 4.01
Page 1 of 5
BURMA - GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
MYANMA OIL CORPORATION (MOC)
Notes to Financial Statements and Assumptions for Projections
1.       Until FY86, financial results were based on MOC's financial
statements; FY87 is based on a revised budget and FY88 on MOC's budget for
that year. Projections for FYs 89-92 are based on MOC's capital budget up to
PY90, project cost estimates (see Annex 3.03) and gas production forecasts
(see Annex 5.01). Specific comments on each item are given below.
Income Statement
2.       Crude Oil sales reflect a price of K43/bbl up to FY84 and as from
FY85 a price of K78/bbl for Payagon condensates (a minor part of MOC's
production) and K43/bbl for other products. Projections are based on current
MOC prices and an oil production stabilizing at seven million barrels per
year.
3.       Gas sales up to FY87 reflect a gas price of K2.05 per MCF for Payagon
gas and K1.80 per MCF for other gas.  Projections are based on a price of K7.5
as from FY88 for Payagon gas and an unchanged price for other gas. The
volumes and price of gas sold are assumed to remain stable until the
completion of the project.
4.       Revenue-Enhancing Measures as from FY89 are expected to result from
the study on HOC's financial viability (see para 4.09). Among possible
measures, a unification of the gas price at K7.5/MCP would produce an
additional revenue of about K220 million per year and each one K1.0 increase
per barrel of oil would produce an additional revenue of about K7.0 million
per year.
5.       Operating Costs and wages in general are expected to increase by 5X
per year, which is in line with past experience. Costs for materials and
"Schlumberger", mainly for drilling, are expected to peak in FYs 88-89, partly
due to project activities, and then decline to more normal levels. As in the
past, depreciation is expected to average about 4.4% of gross fixed assets,
except for offshore assets, which are not depreciated (see para 4.06). It
should be noted that a 10% depreciation on capitalized deferred expenditures
(mainly successful wells) has been deducted from the deferred expenditures for
the year, causing differences between depreciation as given in the income
statement and depreciation in the balance sheet.
6.       Interest charges vary from 1X to 82, depending on the purpose and the
age of the loan, and average 4.11 on outstanding debt at the end of FY87. For
projection purposes, all new debt (including recent IDA funds) are expected to
carry an interest charge of 7.9X per year.
7.       No exchange losses are projected as from FY87; the exchange rate is
assumed to remain stable at around K7.0/US$.



-63-                           ANNEX 4.01
Page 2 of 5
Balance Sheet
8.       The projected increase in fixed assets is based on MOC's capital
budget up to FY90, an assumption that MOC's investments outside the project
will remain at about FYs 88-90 levels also in FYs 91-94 and that the cost of
project components will be capitalized when completed (see implementation
schedule in Chart 3). It has happened in the past that, due to foreign
exchange constraints, MOC has not received the necessary funds from GOB to
carry out approved capital investment plans. If this happens in the future,
MOC's investments in fixed assets would be lower and new borrowing from GOB
would be reduced accordingly.
9.       Offshore expenditures are expected to be capitalized as in the past,
but as from FY89, these expenditures are expected to be reduced to about
K30 million per year.
10.      The Union of Burma Consolidated Fund (UBCF) is expected to remain at
the same level as in the past up to FY89. In FY90, it is assumed that GOB
will allow MOC to use its UBCF funds to repay loans from Government as part of
a capital restructuring of HOC.
11.      Stores and spares are expected to increase during the early part of
project execution and then fall back to previous levels.
12.      Accounts receivable are assumed to equal about 15% of billing (about
1.8 months of outstanding bills), which is in line with past experience.
13.      COB Capital is assumed to be increased by K3,500 million in FY90 as
part of the capital restructuring of MOC.
14.      Long-term debt is basically all debt with a repayment schedule and
short-term debt is basically all other debt. As MOC has been a net borrower
since FY80 and the short-term debt has been rolled over from one year to the
other, the distinction between long-term and short-term debt has become less
meaningful. It is, therefore, doubtful if MOC's short-term debt should be
classified as current liability, and a major objective of a capital
restructuring would be to reduce MOC's short-term debt.
Funds Flow Statement
15.      Others and adjustments contains the difference between depreciation
aS shown in the income statement and depreciation as shown in the balance
sheet (see para 5 above). Further, due to recent changes in accounting
principles (see para 2.06), some adjustments of asset values have been done.
The use of the UBCF funds in FY90 has also been shown under this heading.
16.      Debt service assumes repayment of short-term debt, by the use of UBCF
and GOB equity (para 13 above), totalling K3,792 million.



OM  - 6A D       EWLE   i UITILIZATIE POW
Ni#i  OIL COMTIII (IO)
tEI STANTM     13-1994
(Nllilt of Kyts
FT Ending Nwch 31         1913     1        13        9        19 M                                    1 19U  1  99  19  1  13    199
Crud oil                         336.1       .6    33.9    29.        323.5        299    23.9    2.          2.       2939    293.9    213.
ltural as                          15.0     17.6     29.5     59.4     73.9        162.2    164      16.      216.0    263.      2.6    324.0
hues. E* ins ba'                              -                                        -     50.0    10.0    150.0    M.0    300.0    40.0
Other                              6.3      10.5     11.2    14.6       5.3          5.3      5.3      5.3      5.3      5.3      L3       5.3
-    -    -           -    -                --          -                          -             -
10. IVIEI                         35.4    340.7    374.6    374.0      02.7        461.4     2.      570.1    6.2   m7.          91.   1,0.2
hdarie  ad $We                    74.7      73.3     01.9      4.2     91.7         9.7    101.5    106.4    111.2    116.0   1,21.       13.0
latriaals                        237.5    229.0    142.0    13.1    104.0          238.     2".7    20651    192    10.0   I15.0    150.0
Snhl_rg                           6.2      70.3     34.0     72.1     66.6        121.3    10.8    104.4       9.5     769       70.0      50
liat*m_a                           *.9      11.1     10.3     17.0     19.9         20.7     21.7     22.7    2L        24.3      2.0      27.3
Ptr, 3il, Lnwit                    19.1     19.0     17.0     17.2     IL0          19.0     19.9     20.9     21.1      22.3     23.9     3L1
Irc.itihm                         a59    120.4    123.6    134.1    151.0          172.2    203      221t9    206.3    264.4     MA..    390.5
byaltin  ad Tao                    6.9       6.5      6.8      61       6.9          7.2      6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1      61        6.1
Mailstratiu                        11.7     11.1     1L3      17.5     17.3         13.5     19.5     20.4     21.3     22.2      23.3     24.5
thws                              45.7      55.9     30.6      .6      45.8         47.7     50.1     52.5     34.9     57.3     60.2      132
OPIRTIE COST                      55.6    601.6    527.7    515.9    523.7         740    739.0    765.4    780.1    740.5    763.7    73.7
Las     Defwrd Expmes, ut         23.3    192.8      79.0     OB.9    70.0         155.     130.2     W.3      93.8     60.0      60.0     60.0
NT tRTISB COST                   535.3    40.L   443.7    427.0    453L            562    66.8    66.1    636.3    60.5    703.7    729.7
RTINB I1    (MI                  (178.41    (60.1    (74.1)   (SL.0)   t5.09      4124.8)   (3.2)   (95.5)   (16.1)      2.5    1M.1    m.5             a '
Les   1terest                     9.5    121.9    135.1    153.2    209.4          277.0    347.0    197.0    229.0    24.0    275.0       7.0
Exchap Lse                  18.2     10.9      1.7      3.5               -          -             -        -        -        -        -
Otbr  rn-OWrating            2.1      0.7      0.1      0.5       1.7          1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3
NET PlI01t (L095                 1295.2)  1193.6)  1211.0)  (210.2)  1261.1)      (403.1)  1436.5)  (293.8)  1246.4)  (156.8)   (70.23      0.2
mm       _~       sa          m      m              m      m        m          m      m           m



331- 31IwL        & UTIUZATISU Pow
SALNIE SkETM      I93-Itm
(tllilols oF lysts)
9 ~~~-  FORMO-1
F? Eri" lrch 31            1933     1964      19       193     1S7           193       199      199       I99I     9m      1i99       19"
Fied Asets at Cet in up         2,52.4  2,119.6  3,147.8  3,377.0  3,43.2          3,913.   4,62L9  5,157.7  5,59.5  6,06L5   6413S   6135
Law  kcb  Depreciatlio            71.3    33.4    935.3  1,13.2  1,296.2           1,463.4  1,672.1  1,0"S.   2,1453  2,949.7   292.1   226
llt Fixed  eets to Op            1,l16.1  1,9W0.2  2,162.5  2,169.6  2,141.0       2,445.5  2,956.   3,253.7  3,453.2  3,59L3   3,72.4  3,19
Capitaiited Ofsho Ep               I93.    426.9    671.1    857.3  1,163.0        1,141.8  1,171.3  1,201.3  1,230.0  1,260.    1290.0   132.0
ULim of eres CoI Fed              m.1    m.1    m.1    m.               22.1         m.1    292.1                    -
Cas and Books                      14.0      23.6     19.1     21.6      21.0         21.0     22.0     23.0      24.0      MO       25o      25.0
Stocks of Cradt I Products         12.7      12.6     11.7      10.5     10.5         10.5     11.0      11.0     1.       12.0      53.0     13.0
Stos   I WS                       623.8    542.0    507.7    447.5    457.9          476.6    500.0    560.0    430.0    460.0    46L0    4.0
kcusts  ecelvabl,                  66.6      44.2     42.0     41.2      64.6         73.2     73.0      35.0    10O.0    115.0    t27.3    136.2          .
Total Current kwts              717.3    622.4    50.5    520.9    54.0            531.5    611.0    619.0    616.0    612.0         .l    63.2
TOTAL ASRS                      3,019.3  3,327.6  3,706.2  3,059.0  3,990.1        4,460.9  5,031.7  5,079.5  5,299.2  5,470.8  5,6U.2  5,710.1
uzw.=    inow u       =a=4           z      ~     at        Sao=     2sun     -o
EhUITJ 1N LIABILITIES
6weut Capital                     2135    213.5    213.5    213S    213.5            213.5    213s  3,713.5  3,713.5  3,71.5  3,713.5  3,718.5
heorues                            65.9      70.0     70.0     70.0      70.0         70.0     70.0      70.0     70.0     70.0      70.0     70.0
btained Eriap                     Is54)  1736M.    1942.0) (1,153.1) 51,410.3)    51,613.4) (2,249.91 12,543.7) (2,790.u  1,946.9)  3,0254  53,024.9)
Total Eity                      (259.1   5443.1   (653.5)  5364.65 51,121.0)    11,524.9  11,961.4  1,244.3    9.       641.6    763.4    763.
LeqTr amt                         959.1    99.5    97.3    907.3    32.0             906L6   1,031.2  1,68.6  1,140.4  I,13L4    1115.0   15O
ort-Tar k1t                     2,21L9  2,664.3  3,174.9  3,601.9  4,200.3         5,004.1  5,86t.9  2,6669  3,460.4  3,343.    3663.    3311.5
ktccts Payable                     9.9    112.9    237.5    215.2        79.6        7ILI    100.0    100.0   10.0    106.0    100.O    IO.0
Tetal trrt  Liabilits         2,313.3  2,.2  3,412.4  3,317.1  4,279.9           5,079.2  5,961.9  2,768.9  3,140.4  3,44L    3,763.3   S,9.S ,5j
_~~~~~ -  -  -  -  -   -  U,
Total Usbilitin               3,m.   3,m.7  4,359.7  4,724.4  5,111.9            5,so.a  6,9@5.   3,83.7   4,3ilt.8  4,6.2   4,"a    5,02LS          
Thu.L W1M  m  LYiULtTIE         3,013.3  3,327.6  3,70M2  3,358.3  3,90.1          4,460.9  5,03L7  5,079.5  5,29.2  5,470.3  5,642.2  5,790.1
_s                 x _n                           a m        -               _   _        _      _



MM  - 61N I EIIT & UTUL1ZTtO PUECT
RYAUA OIL CURIRATIOK UKC)
FIDS FLUl STATENT  1983-1"4
(Nillinas of Kyat5)
---- IL --------                  --   --------01         FOEAST
FY fi ing Nbrch 31        1983     19864    1985      1996     1967         198      1989     19f      1991     192      1993      1994
SOUR
Rit Incon Befare Interest         198.7)   (71.7)   (75.9)   (57.0)   (52.7)      M126.1)   (89.5)   (96.8)   (17.4)    91.2    196.8    297.2
Ad:D beprKitio*                   85.9    120.4    129.9    134.1    151.0         172.2    203.7    226.9    246.3    264.4    282.4    300.5
Othrs 1 Adijustmt            44.8)    11.3     29.9     67.7    (39.1)           -        -    292.1         -        -        -        -
Total nternal Fonds            (117.6)    60.0     81.7    144.8     59.2         46.1    114.2    422.2    229.9    355.6    479.2    597.7
611 Equity Contributis             0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0      0.0  3,500.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Nee Los   Log-ters               500.7      89.4        -        -        -        150.0    200.0    110.0    150.0    150.0      34.6     35.0
'Slhrt-tare           619.?    44U.4    510.6    427.1    598.4         903.9    957.8    599.1    391.5    283.4    320.0    217.7
TOTIL SOUICES                   1,002.8    594.9    592.3    571.9     5.6         m9.9  1,l72.0  4,631.3    770.4    79.0    633.8    050.4
3=       3=       3=        3=       3              =     333       3        3==               3           =
Capital Costructiun              709.3    530.8    52.4    416.2    205.1          615.5   745.0    559.8    469.0    440.0    440.0    440.0
Interest                          96.5    121.9    135.1    153.2    208.4         277.0    347.0    197.0    229.0    246.0    275.0    297.0   .
Aua'ti2atlon                      50.0      50.0     51.2     40.0     75.3         75.4     75.4  3,967.5     75.4    105.0   105.0    105.0   i
- - - - -  - - - - - - - 1 
Ikbt Srvice                     146.5    171.9    186.3    193.2    283.7        352.4    422.4  4,064.5    304.4    353.0    380.0    402.0
-        -                                                 _ -  -. -  -  -    ----                              Ho
Clho    in 'Nrinis Capital'       147.0   (107.9)  (16.4)   137.5    168.8          32.0      4.6      9.0      (3.0)    14.0)    13.8      8.4
T         -   - 002  -       -    -                            -             - .    0   .
ruraL IlUIIE9REUs               1,002.8    594.9    592.3    571.9   657.6         999.9  1,172.0  J4,31.3    770.4    78t.0    633.8   95.4
3=       _3,      338       _=       3=3                                       =      3           =



- 69-                                      ANEX 4.02
COST RECOVERY CALCILATIOM FOR THE PAYAGN BAS FIELD
IEXlPEITUS  ND REVENS  IN KYATS NILLION AND AWNAL SAS VOLNES IN BILLION CUDIC FEET)
,_a_   .                                    _      _       _             _      ,      _             _     ,__, _   ____I.
IFY      I      EXPENDITURES         I             INET  BENEFIT I    DISCTI          PRESENTI GAS  VOLWEI DISOTED?
IEIDN   1 ----            ---            EVENES  I                I     FACTORSI        VALUEI   87-09           VOWLESI
IRCH 311    Capital I Operating I                  :               (8   t)                                 I             I
It       I        (1)  1        (2)  1       (3)      ( 4)0l2-3  1        (5)  1    (6)u4x1           (7)  I    (8)#5z7 I
t | : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -- I- - - - - - |- - - ----------t____t__l____ _ 
I   l960 t        6.IItIs* t         t5.6) t                             7.98B I       (52.7)ta
1   l915 1        2.7 1              1             :1      (2.7) 1       2.518 1        (6.0t"                           1 
1   1979 1        3.0 1              I                     (3.01  1             1            15.01         i             I
Si80 1           1.3 I             t1                    1 1.31 1      1.714 1        (2.2)1             1             1
1981 I        1.1 I              I             t. (11) 1             1.S87 i        (l.?)I t                         t
1    982           1.3 6.61                                (1.3)         1.498         (521.9)1            I
1973 1            6.7        1              1              (6.0)         2 1.368        (I.J 
1984 1           12.4                1                     ( 312.0) I    1.260 1       (I5.6)1
1   1985 1       93.31          2.3                        ( 4.3    (91.3)1  1.166 1  (106.5)1             1
1   1926 1      100.3           2.4 1         B.1          195.0) 1      1.04 9        (102.091            1 
I   1987          6 l20.0 :    10.0 1         2.5 1      (127.051        1.000          ( 62.5)1,      7.6 1        7.6 I
1   1998  1     143.6          1      4.5                149.6)                                           I 0.92  (138.5)1  8.4 1  7.9 J
;   lM    1     223.1 Is       11.0 :         5.4 It    (228.t) 1        0.857 t       1% ll.)t 1       .9 i        8.5 41
1   196         270.0          11.6 3         6.4        (21.3) 1        1.794 1      (218.5)1        9.9 1         7.9 1
1   1961        100.01          28.1         87.4   (1960.0)            10.735      (1tl.6)1          l6.1 :       ItJ  I
1   lm         100.0 t        10.0           9 2.51     (109.5) 5       0.601 I       (14.5)1        18.6 1       12.7 1
1   199 1        75.4 1        21.0 1         4.7 1       (859.) :       0.63  1      (354.0))        22.2 1       14.0 1
1   19Y 1        20.2 330.4                     .4       (228.7)1 1      0.57 1       (23.7)1        23.0 9        13.4 5
5   1990          9.2 1        31.9 1        10.1         (731.0) 1      0.40         (16.75)1       24.  1        13.0 1
1   1991 1        6.4          33.5 9   1     0.4 1       (29.5) 1       0.500 1      (14.9)1,        25.9 1       13.0 1
1   19 2          6.4 10       35.2 0        10.4 1       (31.25) :      0.463 1       (14.5)1       27.4 1        12.7 1
1   1M9   1                    30.9 0        10.4 t       (26.5) 1       0.429 1       (11.0)1       29.2 1        12.5 1
1   199          2             380.41         9.9 1        428.0.   1    0.397 1       (2.3)?         30.7 1       12.2 1
I  2100 91        9.0.7 1                    10.4         (30.30) 1      0.540 1       (16.7)1       31 1          11.0 1
1  2001 1         6            42.8 1        10.4 1       (32.5) 1       0.340 1       (14.08)       32.9 1        13.2 1
1   2002           .t          44.9 21       10.4 1       134.2) 1       0.315 1       (10.9)1       32.9 t        12.7 4
1  2003 1              1       47.1 1        10.4 1       (236.75        0.429   1      11.4)        32.2 1        1.6 5s
1  20041    1          1        8.9 1        10.4 1        29.81) 1      0.270 1       (10.31,        32.97 I       8.92 
1  200511              1       52.0 t        10.4         (341.6) 1      0.250 1       (10.0)1       32.9 1         8.2 1
1  2002 1              1       54.6 t        10.4 I       (34.2) 1       0.232 1       (10.2)1       32.9 1         7.6 1
1   2007 1             1       57.3 1        10.4 1       446.9) 1       0.219  1      (10.1)1       32.91          9.6 1
1  20081 I                     60.1          10.41        (49.7)1        0.1I9"         (9.9)1       32.9           6.5.
I                                                                              I :  1   (t1418.3)1                228.2 1
K8/NCF         *              (6.21)                     17.19)                       (8.39)
Discout Rate a                0.08                        0.10                         0.12
h  free 1987, codnesate ules are estimated to equal 5 bbl per 1 NCF,
equivalent to abut K 385 per INCF.



ANNEX 4.03
Page 1 of 2
BURMA - GAS DEVELOWPENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
STUDY OF MYANHMA OIL CORPORATION'S FINANCIAL VIABILITY
Terms of Reference
A. Background
1.       During the last couple of years, the Myanma Oil Corporation (HOC) has
been operating at a loss of between K200 million and K300 million a year.
These losses have forced MOC to borrow heavily and, as of March 31, 1986, its
long-term debt amounted to about K910 million and short-term debt amounted to
about K3,600 million. In the year ending March 1986, interest only on these
loans amounted to about K153 million, equity was a negative K865 million and
MOC's current ratio was 0.14. MOC has not been able to make a contribution to
Government for its equity investment since FY80 and without continued
Government support, MOC would be bankrupt.
2.       According to generally accepted principles, a revenue-earning entity
should generate sufficient funds to cover its operating expenses, debt
service, a reasonable return on equity, as well as contribute a portion of
funds needed for investment purposes. To achieve the above for HOC, a change
in MOC's capital structure and revenue-enhancing/cost-reducing measures would
be required. The basic objective of this Study would be to identify such
measures.
3.       A change in MOC's capital structure could be made by Government
without major consequences for the rest of the economy. However, changes in
transfer prices of crude oil and gas produced by MOC could affect the finances
of the Petrochemical Industries Corporation (PIC), the Petroleum Products
Supply Corporation (PPSC), the Electric Power Corporation (EPC) and others.
It would, therefore, be necessary to study the impact of revenue-enhancing
measures for MOC on intermediate energy users, as well as on final consumers,
before deciding on which measures to implement. To minimise the near-term
impact on the economy, the first step would be to revise HOC's capital
structure. The next step would be to identify revenue-enhancing measures that
would ensure MOC's operations at least to break even before the end of the
project period even if at that time, MOC revenues are insufficient to provide
for an adequate return on the equity of the Government of the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma. In the longer run, however, MOC should also
be able to generate enough funds to provide the Government of the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma an adequate return on its equity investment and
contribute a reasonable portion of funds needed for investment purposes.
B. Scope of Study
(a) To identify measures that would improve MOC's financial
viability, e.g., capital restructuring, higher transfer prices
for crude oil and gas, and cost-reducing/efficiency-improving
measures;



- 71-                            ANMEX 4.03
Page 2 of 2
b)   to evaluate the impact of these measures on 0OC's financial
viebility and on the financial viability of intermediate energy
enterprises (e.g., PPSC, PIC, EPC, and other industries);
(c) to evaluate the impact of these measures on the end-users of
energy, i.e., consumers of petroleum products, electricity and
certain industrial products; and
(d) to propose a combination of measures, and an implementation
plan, that would lead to a strengthening of MOC's capital
structure by the end of 1989 and ensure its financial viability
not later than by the end of the project period. For this
purpose, MOC would be considered financially viable as long as
it has a positive equity base and its operations are breaking
even after adequate allowances for depreciation and interest,
i.e., MOC's income statement should show a positive net income.
C. Executing Agency
4.       A working group would be established, under the supervision of the
Ministry of Energy, to carry out the tasks under the proposed Study.
Representatives from the Ministry of Planning and Finance and the Peoples'
Inspectorate should be invited to join the working group. It is important
that the supervisor of the working group be given adequate authority to
contact and request cooperation from entities that may be affected by the
Study. The working group will discuss choice of methodology and interim
results with IDA, as necessary, during the execution of the Study.
D. Time Schedule
1.  These terms of Reference were agreed between the Government of
the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma and IDA at Credit
negotiations
2.   The working group will be established not later than by Credit
Board presentation
3.   A preliminary report on the findings would be made available to
the Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
and IDA for their joint review not later than one and a half
years after Credit effectiveness
4. The final report, incorporating relevant comments from IDA,
would be completed within two years of Credit effectiveness
5.   The Study, upon completion, would be submitted to the Ministry
of Energy, and the Government of Socialist Republic of the Union
of Burms for review and development of a plan of implementation,
as appropriate



72 -ANNEX 4.04
Page I of 2
BURMA
CAS DELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Internal Financial Rate of Return (IFRR) Calculations
1.       The IFRB calculations are based on the following assumptions:
(a)  Capital costs for the Payagon Gas Development Program's Phase I
(the project) and Phase II are the same as in Annex 3.03,
including contingencies, taxes and duties, but excluding seismic
interpretation and oil studies, as these items do not belong to
the gas development;
(b)  the average gas offtake is shown in Annex 5.01.  As the existing
10-inch diameter Payagon to Rangoon pipeline would be expected
to end its useful life in FY95 without the project, all Payagon
gas, as well as operating costs, are regarded as incremental to
the project as from that year;
(c)  the useful life of the Payagon gas investments is estimated to
average 20 yers; no scrap value has been considered at the end
of the useful life as the net present value would be
insignificant;
(d)  all expenditure and revenue streams have been discounted by
10X p.a. in FYs 88-90, 91 in FY91, 81 in PY92, 71 in FY93, 6X in
FY94, and 51 until FY2000, to bring them to FY88 real price
levels. As from FY2001, operating costs and revenues are
expected to remain stable in real terms.
2.       With the above assumptions, incremental expenditure and revenue
streams in K million of FY88 purchasing power would be:
Capital ExP.     Operating Exp,.  _   Revenues        Not Revenues
FY      Deflator   Phase I Phase 1/11  Phase I Phase 1&11  Phase 1 Phase 1411  Phase I Phase 1&11
1968      1.00      84.7   143.6                                          (84.7)  (143.6)
1989      .91      154.2   203.0        -       -         -        -      (154.2)  (203.0)
1990      .83      129.6   224.1        -       -         -        -      (129.6)  (224.1)
1991      .76       92.0   114.0      13.8    13.8      97.5    97.5       (8.3)   (30.3)
1992      .70       59.3    70.0      13.3.   13.3      103.8   103.8      31.2    20.5
1993      .66       37.0    50.0      13.2    13.2      116.7   116.7      66.5    53.5
1994      .62       8.2    12.4       13.0    18.8      111.2   113.7      90.0    82.5
199S      .59       1.8      5.6      13.0    18.8      105.8   113.1      91.0    88.7
1996      .56       1.1      3.6      13.0    18.6      100.4   115.5     86.3    93.1
1997      .53        1.0     3.4      13.0    18.8      95.0   115.7       81.0    93.5
1996      .51                         13.0    18.8      91.4   118.6       78.4    99.8
1999      .48                         13.0    18.8      86.1   117.4       13.1    98.6
2000       .46                        13.0    18.8       82.5   116.5      69.5    97.7
2001-08    .44                        13.0    18.8       78.9   115.3      65.9    96.5



-73 -ANIMX 4.04
Page 2 of 2
3.       The resulting IFRR, in FY88 real terms, for Phase I (the project) is
13.01 and the IFRl for Phases I and II (the whole Payagon Gas Development
Program) is 9.01. The two phases are interdependent and Phase II would bring
no benefits without the completion of Phase I. The IFRR for Phase I may
understate the real return of the project, as its capital expenditures are
based on a pipeline size capable of handling the additional gas volumes for
Phase II. Corresponding gas revenues, however, have been regarded as
incremental to Phase II only. Furthermore, the gas price of K7.5 per MCF has
been assumed constant in ?7minal terms until FY2001, which implies a fall in
real terms of about 55X. -  Even so, the estimated 13.01 IFRR in real terms
for the project is satisfactory.
4.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out with the following results:
Resulting IFRR 
Phase I       Phase IUIT
Capital expenditures + 101                  11.3            7.7
Operating expenditures + 10%                12.7            8.7
Revenues - 101                              10.8            7.2
Combination of all above                     8.9            5.7
1/ If gas prices are maintained at K7.5 in real terms over the useful life of
the Payagon gas investments, the IFRR for Phase I would be 25.0% and for
Phases I & II, 19.5X.



O  - GAS wEAIT Io UTuATm P"AECT
DENA  FORErAT FOR PATAGU  GA   V
(in dillitf cubic tit)
am-
FT Ai       eh N 1        197         198         1989         MO          199         1M           9m          19           195         19          17           M98         199         2z 2e
PUB                           4380          u6        7519         7519       10U          115         18          13286        13286       1 6         138          132         13286       12           130
IEUERt                        2|*         t§"                                  S4           M4 2044  20W 2W  2VA  20  2W         2044        2044        20           2044        2W          204          2W
n                                                                                                    1533        1533         15          13          195          153         133         I=           I=
Papev                                                                                   1660         160         1660         1660        1660        160          1660        10          160          1i60
asvl lnduttiu              1241        1241        1241         1241              1D56  302          3723        4343       954           7446        7446         1446        7446        7446         7446
_ 613   11   b/                                                                                                                                           1406        30"         46"         W6             1
Mom  TTA.                     7665        Bp4         860          860       l1702         1ow9       226M                     24107       256         277          29018       360         317          32
Ibxis Omv Ofe        /        2hO         29.0        30.0         30.0        65.0         70.0        84.0        9.0          9040        96.0       100.0        106.10     1IU.O        llhO         Into
bwo 0ev OfUe                  21.0        23.0        24.0         24.0        U.@6         Sl.O        61*0        U.O          66.0        71.0        75.0         79.S        #.0         870          9.0*
O which:
Plu I                                                                       46.S        51.0         61.0        61.6         61.6        61.7        616          U.l1        61.S        61.5         9.5
Plw  I                                                                                                            1.4          4.4         9.3        13.4         18.4        22,5        2.5          Z8#5
(in billion cubic *wVesr1                                                      17.1        18.6         22.3        Z3.0         24.1        25.9        27.4         29.0        30.7        31.B         32.9
mnefl  I                                                                    t7.1         IS.6        22.3        n.s5         22.S        22.5        22.5         22.3        22.4        22.4         22.4
p       1                                                                                                         O'           10.56   3.4             4.9          6.7    8.2               9.3  10OA
Swre: mission s iwnt anW Nam Oil Cllrpetiian
Ws:
a/ for a       refirv rd  inbUtrest tJ ffgn   r'  to SW  ffmtts boW  on iiotiied eenjws tha  we existiq or s     to cm   n stren.
b/ Cn vole     rW    tUd  to  ield em          itienal SuaA    dmdnpw     tsunly in pw*r and iWntrv) that wuld be idwAntiff de Uww th
en Utilintion Stuo's Usk of tioting wt             rirwt Vs d_tw.
d SW c*klity is 33 NOfD up to FY" and 120 iOM  tr FMl ds.
tt IBm  on tqo dw oftA vAn using o tpt lewl of svst rdliabilitv.



- 75 -                              ANNEX 5.02
Page 1 of S
BW NA GAS DEVELOPMHT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
The values of diesel and fuel oil (CIF Rangoon), for which Payagon
gas will substitute, were derived by adjusting projected international prices
for crude oil by assumed fixed product-to-crude margins and inte'.national
transport costs using the Singapore market. Product-to-crude ratios are esti-
mated to be 1.30 for diesel and 0.80 for fuel oil. Transport costs are around
U8$10/metric ton (Ut) for both products. The conservative assumption is made
that crude oil prices will remain constant in real term beyond the year
2000. Under these assumptions, and besed on World Bank international crude
oil price projections, the border price values of diesel and fuel oil used in
the economic analysis are as follows (in constant 1986 US$):
Project Crude Oil                          Expected Product Value
Year             Price                                     (CIF Rnocon)
USS/bbl    USS/                          HSO                 FUEL OIL
USSMt   USSA b    USS/ut   USSA4Cf
1987/88     15.50    111.60                   155.10     3.69       "9.30      2.40
1988/89     17.20    123.80                   170.90     4.07       109.00     2.63
1989/90     17.10    123.10                   170.00     4.05       106.50     2.62
1990191     16.90    121.70                   168.21     4.01       107.40     2.59
1991/92     17.60    126.72                   174.70     4.16       111.40     2.70
1992/93     18.30    131.80                   181.30     4.32       115.50     2.80
1993194     19.00    136.80                   187.80     4.47       119.50     2.90
1994195     19.70    141.80                   194.30     4.64       123.50     3.00
1995196     20.90    150.50                   205.60     4.90       130.40     3.15
1996/97     22.10    159.00                   216.80     5.20       137.30     3.30
1997198     23.50    169.00                   230.00     5.50       145.00     3.50
1996/99     24.90    179.00                   243.00     5.80       153.00     3.70
99/2000     26.60    191.00                   259.00     6.20        163.00    3.90
a/ Prices fro 199192 to 1993194 and from 1995196 to 1998619 wero calculated based on the
avorage annual growth rate Implicit In the price data available for 1994/95 and 1999/2000.
b/ In heat equivalent terms, at around 42.0 MCFV/t of diesel and 41.4 MCF/ut of fuel oil.



mm  - PAV560 als E.WI"T P8w  083    tIAN II)
ECUUISIC RATE OF WM CALCULATIIN
(C,ts ad llfits in 19s3 U  million; kg wVolum  in HIoo  d JaF)
proct Price Assptiow
IbrJd Ink istrwatiEl cradt oil price projectio,
adjstd fir find prai.ct-t-craft arwin
ant freit diffwntials.
6AS VIWE                            ElIV "mIT   CES
F?           EITENDCONVElC-                                                                                  I(CIIST 96 Mm               6A   isTiM
dioS                             6hS   SIATE          F.D. STITE   DIl STITE             T 8 T A L         -       -     -                                       GM        CE
Nwh  31    CA1PITAL  IPIATI       EV CS  IEENE       In")   4fw)   4I315)   (SCDI   11E          toI) w)       FO       DO        fO SIlO  00 SliS   TOTAL       lSE       FUlt
IM9           9.7                  8.7                                                                         2.40    3.6          0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      5.7)
196          24.8                 24.9                                                                         2.63    4.07         0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0   (24.0)
19          1t9.2                 19.2                                                                         2.62     4.05         0.0     0.0      0.0         0.0   119.2)
191t         34        1.9        3.3       0.6       t1.0       6.      29.0    10.      47.0    17t2         2.%q    4.01         17.0    42.4    59.5         6.l    21.1
192          33.6      2.2        35.9      0.8        23.0      9.4     21.0    10.2    51.0    16.6          2.70    4.16         22.7    42.5     62          6.0      3.2
1993         19.7      2.2        20.9      0.9        30.0    11.0    31.0    11.3    61.0    22.3            2.60    4.32         30.7    48.9    19.5         9L4      9.5
194           4.9      3.2         8.1      1.1        31.0    11.3    32.0    11.7    63.0    23.0            2.90    4.47         32.3    5.2       l.0        3.1        0
1995         O.3       3.2         4.0      1.4        33.0    12.0    33.0    12.0       6.0    24.1          3.00    4.63        S3I      S.8    91.9         93.3     3.3
9t9          0.6       3.2         3.9      I.         43.0    15.1    28L0      10.2    71.0    25.4          3.15     4.90        4.4     3.1      .5       100.9    92.1
19          0.6       3.2         3.8      1.4        45.0    16.4    30.0    11.0    750         27.4        3.30    5.20         52      56L9    111.1       1l2.5   19L
1990                   3.2         3.2      1.4        4l.0    17.5    32.0    11.l    90.0    29.2            LS     5.50         61.3    64.2   t21.6        12.0    12L9
19"                    3.2         3.2      1.5        50.0    18.3    34.0    12.4    94.0    30.7            3.70    5L.0         67.5    72.0   139.s        141.0   137J
2060                   3.2         3.2      1.5        S4.0    19.7    36.0    13.1        0.0    32.9         3.S      6.20        76.9    81.5    13.3         159.3    16.6
2001                   3.2         3.2      1.5        54.0    19.1    36.0       3.1    90.0    32.9          3.0      6.20        76.9    91.5   159.3        119.3    16.
2002                   3.2         3.2      1.5        540      19.7    360      13.1      0.0    32.9         3.90     6.20        76.9    91.5    13B.3       1L5.8   ISL6
2003                   3.2         3.2      1.5        54.0    19.7    36.0    13.        90.0    3L9          3.90     6.20        76.9    81.5    159.3       159.3   1:6.L
2006                   3.2         3.2      t.5        54.0    19.7    36.0    13.1    90.0    32.9         *  3.90     6.20        76.9    31.5    13.3         159.8   156.6
205                    3.2         3.2      1.5        54.0    19.7    36.0    13.1    90.o    32.9            3.90     6.20        76.9    81.5   ISI.3         5.3    1566
200                    3.2         3.2      1.5        54.0    19.7    36.0    13.1    90.0    32.9            3.90     6.20        76.9    31.5    133         !51.a   156.
2007                   3.2         3.2      1.5        54.0    19.7    36.0    13.1       ".0    S2.9          3.90     6.20        76.9    81.5   t13          t59.6   t5L6
2011                   3.2         3.2      1.5        54.0    19.7    36.0    13.1        0.0    32.9         3.90     6.20        7L9     81.5    13.3        19.3  t156
Intral kanic ate of      rn        19.091
WVSI N a* 12 (tS Gillian)         446.4



_r  - Pealuu ear _IIaI   uua   waB  t a  III
ECUIC  STE UF 3 1 CILATID
(Cabs an dinfits is 1911  # ailli; a       ms vim    a In1U sd BDCF)
Pritd Price InmutnIsia
Feol 8il      I3SJtm (1107.411IND)
Di..l Oil     I wltm  31#913lIl)
Teme m    lyrhcmbu  198 prics ha  km  the Iwd  in the pst 10 yars.
us VOUS                               EUIV FROECT PRIS
FT      n      IPtrHE                      cow                                                                    (ChhSTUT 8O SnW)             Us  JnM
unit                                6-      SATE        F.Q. UBSlUT     DIESE      ITIITE     T 0 T 4 L         --m                                                                c
wc 31       WITIL    TUII;           COST   VEff       (NM)   (BF)   (WM)   (OCF)   (MM)   (IEFI                    FO       DO         FR SUBS   00 S3    TMTAL .s                FUN
193           87                     a.7                                                                            1.22     2.39          0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0     187
1989         24.8                   24.8                                                                            1.22     2.40          0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0    (24.)
10o          19.2                   19.2                                                                            1.23     2.42          0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0     19.2)
11           3.4        1.9         38.3      0.6         ILO       6.6     29.0     10.6     47.0     17.2         1.23     2.42          8.1      5.6     33.6         34.2     (4.1 
I"2          33.        2.2         35.8      0.8         23L0       4      2B.0     10.2   5S.0       18.6         1.25     2.45         10.5     2S.1     35.S         3.3       0.S      s
193          18.7       2.2         20.9      0.9         30.0     11.0     31.0     11.3     61.0     22.3         1.27     2.49         13.9     2.2      42.0         #2.9     22.0
199           4.9       3.2          8.1      1.t         31.0     11.3     32.0     11.7    63.0      23.0         1.28     2.53         14.5     29.5     4.0          451      37.0
I19           0.8       3.2          4.0      1.4         33.0    12.0      33.0     12.0     66.0     24.1         1.30     2.56         15.7    30.9      4.6          48.      44.0
t6            0.6       3.2          3.9      1.4         43.0     M5.1    28.0      10.2    71.0      25.9         1.32     2.60         20.8     266      47.4          .0    450
1"7           0.6       3.2          3.8      1.4         45.0     16.4     30.0     11.0     75.0     27.4         1.34     2.U          22.1     28.9     51.0         5.4      4L6
M9                      3.2          3.2      1.4         48.0     17.5     32.0     51.7     00.0     29.2         1.36     2.68         23.9     31.3     5S.2         566    S.4
19                     3.2          3.2      1.5         50.0     18.3     34.0     12.4     84.0     30.7         l.38     2.72         25.2     3L8       9.0         60.5    57.3
2000                    3.2          3.2      1.5         54.0     19.7    36.0      13.1     9O.0     32.9         1.40     2.76         2.7      36.3     64.0          5..    2.3
200t                    3.2          3.2      1.5         54.0     19.7     36.0     53.1    S0.0      32.9         l.43     2.30         28.1     36.8     64.9          .4      4L2
2002                    3.2          3.2      1.5          4.0     19.7     3L0      13.1     9O.0     32.9         1.45     2.5          28.      37.J     6.9          67.4     64.2
2003                    L2           3.2      1.5         54.0     19.7     36.0     13.1     90.0     32.9         1.47     2.69        239       31.0     6            64       6.2
2004                    3.2          3.2      1.5         54.0     19.7     36.0     13.1     9O.0     32.9         1.4      2.93         29.4     3.S      67.9         69.4     662
2W0s                    3.2          3.2      1.5         54.0     19.7    36.0      13.1      0.0     32.9         1.51     2.99         29.      39.1     61L9         70.4     67.2
2006                    3.2          3.2      1.5         54,0     19.7     36.0    3LI        0.0     32.9         1.54     3.02         30.3     39.7     6.9          71.4     682
2007                    L2           L2       1.5         54.0     19.7     3LO      13.1     90.0    32.9          1.56     3.07         30.7     40.3     71.0         72.5     69.3
2066                    3.2          3.2      1.5         54.0     19.7     36.0     13.1     9O.0     32.9         1.58     3.11         31.2     40.9     72.1         73.6     70.4
Intrul kemc bte of Stunm              s9g7
P94       1 t   21 10# aillimI      15366 
OR  IsLfie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F A3



ECIC FATE 0 5T11M CIflIUAtN
(Casts t4 h41  "6$ it 16      nilil. sa .4uuut SW  ad 651
frist price _Atitlll
'l41 Ink isatwmal cradb ol price prjaiej       ,
dita    for fiud pWdu-to-cu  wgia
ml 4f.i#t diffuartius.
on vwis                               inUtV ftUC  MtI
FT            I1FIU1tr1S    CmIE--                                                                                ICIIlY 6W 4 u*hF             636 lb1.6a13M
namead                             SOm         E   F.O. 05tItUIE  D1EJL hhi                   T 0 T A L          --           -    -- -                                   _         SIM
NCk 35   CWITA. 6111                 CIt   9EES_       I1111)   (mF l      11)    (hF) tiff)    ) im    CI)         10       3            Om   30 1          =IL       wto         FL
19n           LI t.7                                                                                                2.40     3.69          0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0     16.7
19           24.6                   24.9                                                                            2.63     4.07          0.9      0.0      0.0          0.0    12.6)
We           19.2                   19.2                                                                            2.62     4.05          0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0    (19.21
199          13.2       1.9         151       0.          10.0      6.4     29.0    10.4      47.0     17.2         2.5      4.01         17.0     42.4     59.5         60.1     450
12            4.4       2.2          6.4      0.0         20.0      7.3     31.0     11.3     51.0    16.           2.70     4.14         19.7     47.1     66.6         47.6     41.0
199           0.8       2.2          3.0      0.9         24.0      LB      37.0     13.5     41.0     22.3         2.00     4.32         24.5     50.3     82.9         63.6    60.8
194           0.1       2.2          2.3      1.1         25.0      9.1     37.0     I.5      62.0     22.4         2.90     4.47         265       0.4     64.          6.9      5.4
19s                     2.2          2.2      1.4         25.0      9.1     37.0     15       62.0     22.6         3.00     4.63         27.4       .      19.9         91.3     I.1
1994                    2.2          2.2      1.4         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5      2.0     22.4         3.15     4.90         2L7      44.2     94.9         93       9.1
I19                     2.2          2.2      1.4         2S.0      9.1     37.0     13.5    42.0      22.4         3.30     5.20         30.1     70.2    100.3        101.7     9.5
199                     2.2          2.2      1.4         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5    62.0      224          3.50     5.50         31.9    74.3    1042          197.6    1l4
199                     2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5     62.0     22.4         3.70     L60          3.       7. I32.1             114      1.4
2060                    2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.1    62.0      22.6         3.90     6.20         35.b     97      119.3        120.8    I16
201                     2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5     42.0     22.4         S."      6.20        3L5       83.7    119.3        12L3   134
2602                    2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5    62.0      22.6         3.90     4.20         35.      63.7    119.3        12.0    11.
2003                    2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5     430      22.6         3.90     6.20         35.4     67      119.3        12L0     11¢6
200                     2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0    13.5      U2.0     22.4         3.90      .20         35.4    63       119.3        120.6     1L6
200S                    2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5      2.0     22.4         3.90     4.20         35.46     3.?     t.3         121.6   £16.
200                     2.2          2.2      1.5         2.0       9.1     37.0     13.5   6ao        22.6         S."      6.20         35.46     3.7    119.3        120.    IL6
200                     2.2          2.2      1.5         25.0      9.1     37.0     13.5     42.0     22.4         3.90     420          35.46    6       119.3        22 t6 116.4
2066                    2,2          2.2      1.5         8.0       9.1     37.0     13.5     62.0     22.6         3.90     6.20         35.6     63.7    119.3        12L6    116.4      
ati     Eca ma   abb of bturs        72.03
WV I1 IsaIn*  122     im 1          atz  .?2



_ - PuN   60 KWNB  tOS1101
MCMC R1E IIF IITIM IIII AUTIU
WAss amd haOits in    e stim; OnS,m    . isto NM  mA ICF
Pdtfrice hsut1as
FidE 0il      5ti (M.4ltb)
Iid all @1S1(iOOt. 011131Al)
Tha  WIY-kCNrl 194 priCes MO k   t1W lmUst 1.1t. pst (0 Pm..
W LUE                                13l9NM;t11ES
FT            WE*I-I                                       -                                                      TIIIT 30 s/aw)           us Ot*l
"diq                               m       MM15    FIlL OL  36t1lE  OEL         il3SThITuE     MA1L                 -              _                                        C
lamb 3      Mh  IFMIIS              Con  R E oil      ON)    WIB  (11111     W3CI   no)   ()                     P       D          FS       4 103W   IDL WIS    TOM    _ u  FlA
15            L3                    L                                                                            1.22    2.39         00       0.0      0.0          0.0    (34
1416         24.0                  24.4                                                                         1.22     2.40         0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      2.4)
19"0         SL                    1M                                                                            1.23    2.42         0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0    (ILI)
M99          13.2      1.9         ILI      0.4         1O       4.4    29.0    10.4    47.0    17.2           1.23     2.42          1       L.        .          34.2    19.1
1992          4.4      2.2          U4      e.L         20.0      7.3    31L      11.3    51.0       L6         1.25     2.45         9.1    27.7    36.            V7.4    3t.0
199           0.0      2.2          3.0      0.9        24.0      LI      37.0    13.5    41.0    22.3          1.27     2.0          It.1     3.      4.7          45.     42.4
199           0.1      2.2          2.3      1.1         5.0      9.1    37.0      M5        .4    22.4         1.24     2.53         11.7    341      45L.         4       44.4
19"                    L2           2.2      1.4       3L0        9.1    37.0    13.5       3.0    22.          8.30     2.5          11.9    34       4.5          *7.9    4.
(99                    2.2          2.2      1.4        25.0      9.1    37.0      3.5      2.o    22.4         1.32     2.00         t2.     3L1      47.2        46.      44
199                    2.2          2.2      1.4        25.0      9.1    37.0    (3.5    62.0    22.           1.34     LU.          12.3    35.7      7.9        U.3    47.1
199                    2.2          2.2      1.4        25.0      9.1    37.0    13.5    42.0    22.6            1.36    2.4          12.4    32       46.4        S0.O    47.5
0199                   2.2          2.2      1.5        2.0       9.1    37.0    13.5    42.0    22.4           1.33     2.72         12.4    3.       4.4        5J.9      4.
231                     2.2         2.2      1.5        25.0      IA      37.0    13.5    63O       22.4         1.40    2.74         (L.     37.3    50.8         51.4     ".4
2411                   2.2          2.2      1.5        25.0      9.1    37.0    13.5    42.0    22.4           t.43     2.40         13.0    3.9    50.S           52.4    5.2
2002                   2.2          2.2      1.5        25.0      9.1     37.0    13.5    62.0    22.4          1.45     2.6          132     3.4    51.4          53.1     5.
200                    2.2          2.2      1.5        25.       9.1    37.0    13.5    42.0    22.4           1.47     2.L9         13.4    39.0    52.4          SLY     51t.
23                      2.2         2.2      1.5        25.0      9.1    37.O    13.5    42.0    22.6            1.49    2.93         (3.0    39.6    53.2           4.7    52.5
2005                   2.2          2.2      1.5        25.0      9.1    37.0    13.5    62.0       22.         1.51     2.98         13.L    40.2    54.0         5L5      33         '
200                    2.2          2.2     t.5         22.0      9.1    37.0    13.5    62.0    22.4           1.54     3.02         14.0    40.1    54.8         5163     56.1     '3
2007                   2.2          2.2      1.5        2.0       9.1    37.0    13.5      40       22.6         1.56    3.07         14.2    41.4    554          57.1A    S.
20ee                   2.2          2.2      1.5        250       9.1    37.0    13.5    62.0    22.4           1.55     3.11         14.4    42.0      LS5         3.0     5.6         o
410
lutusal kesc *b  mf btwi            46.2
1m  U 10z* lOSa t lo ll.i          223.5



SUPRA-GAS  OEVELOPfENT  AIPD  UTILIZATION  PRO*JECT
LON6-RUH  I ARCI4AL   COSt I ORKSHEET
mLsTs IF PATIN AS W JELOT   RiN  (MMAS  I I n)
(in t9u tSM allion)
FT erding larch 31            198          19            1990         19            99          19           1994          IS95         196          1M97           TOTALS
FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC    FC    LC                   FE    LC
1. gs Field Develweat and
wdaisal Drilling                   3.1   1.9   7.7   4.9   7.3   4.5  12.4  10.9   9.7   8.3   6.1   4.0   2.0   0.9                                                     48,3  35.4
2. 68s TrmNG94ssiuj Ed 0istibtAiem    2.3   1.0  9SO   4.0   4,s   2.5   5.7   4.8   749   7.4   4.8   3.9   0.8   1.4   0.7   0.3   0.5   0.1   0.5   0.1                  40.1  25.5
3. Teclmical Assistance  a/           0.4   0.2   0.8   0.3   0.8   0.1   0.5   0.2   0.5   0.1   0.3  0.    0.1                                                            3.4   1.0
4. LP/OX  Pilot keme                 0.2   0.0   0.4   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.2  01    0.2   0,1   0.2   0.1                                                                   1.5   0.5
TOTAL                                 6.0   3.1  17.9   9.3  13.3   7.2  21.8  16.0  18.3  15$9  11.4   6.1   2.9   2.3   0.7   0.3   O.S   0.1   0.5   0.1                 93.3  62.4 
TOTAL (net of taxes/dutes) b/         6.0   1.3  17.9   2.9  13.3   2.9  21.8   9.8  18.3   9.9  11.4   4.4   2.9   1.2   0.7   0.0   0.5   0.0   0.5   0.0                 93.3  31.3          1
llith hsical Continwencies a 0.1t    7.1   1.5  21.3   3.5  15.8   3.3  25,9  10.5  21.8  11.8  13.6   5.2   3.5   1.4   0.8   0.0   0.6   0.0   0.6   0.0    t11.0  3V.2
Plus: Total Operati  Costs c/                                                       1.9          2.2         2Z2            3.2          3.2          3.2          3.2
m  TOTALS                             7.1   1.5  21.3   3.5  15.8   3.3  25.  12.4  21.8  14,0  13.6   7,4   3.5   4.6  038   3.2   0.6   3.2   0.6   3.2    111.0  56.3
PAYAN GAS DEVaMUT  PROM|i (PlAl I I 1I)
ICREIETAL GE FRP lIC       df
2001-
FY endit Ibreh 31             19           1992          193          194          I95          196          l"7           1998         19           2000            2008
Ave reD tv Oaftke (MMD)             44           51           61           63            66           71           75           80           84            87             9S
_Iws totals (CF)                    16           19           22           23            24           26           27           29           31            32              33
of Excluding oil-related tecehical mistance fo seiseic interpretation and oil recowry.
b/ Accordig to iOC. txs and duties ate 502 of FMB primes of iasorted its.  lhe foreign exchane tiwes in the table
at in CIF pries which NBC calculates to be a fact  of 1.2 above FOB prices. Onlv developoent drilling# reserve appraisdlt field production facilities.
and ttumissior and hstribtion facilities wre adjusted for taows and duties.
c/ Source: iOC   peating costs coutinro until FYZOOS.
d  Ausswine a ter"  lewl of sste  reliabilitv.



- 81 -                            ANNE  5.03
rage z or Z
PAYACON GAS DEVELOPET PGAM (PHASES I I II)
LONG RUN M  RGIL COST CALCULATION
Total
FY year                       Costs  Less:Condensate Revenues   Net Cost              Gas
endin  Mtarch 31             (MIUS$)(MM kvats)    (MI USV)       Streao (ON USS)      Production (BCF)
1988                             8.7                                8.7
1989                            24.8                               24.8
1990                            19.2                               19.2
1M91                            38.3    4.5           0.7          37.7                 16.1
1992                            35.8    544           0.8          35.0                 18.6
1993                           21,0    6.4            0.9          20.1                 22.3
1994                             8.1    J.4           1.1           7.0                 23.0
1995                             4.0   9,5            1.4           2.6                 24.1
1996                             3.8    9.7           1.4           2.4                 25.9
1997                             3.8    9.9           1.5           2.3                 27.4
1m                               3.2  10.1            1.5           1.7                 29.2
1999                             3.2  10.4            1.5           1,7                 30.7
2000                             3.2  10.4            1.5           1.7                 31.8
2001                             3,2  10.4            1.S           1.7                 32.9
2002                             3.2   10.4           1.5           1.7                 32.9
2003                             3.2   10.4           1.5           1.7                 32.9
2004                             3.2  10.4            1.5           1.7                 32.9
2005                             3.2  10.4            1.5           1.7                 32.9
2006                             3.2  10.4            1.5           1.7                 32.9
2007                             3.2  10,4            i.5           1.7                 32.9
2008                             3.2  10.4            1.5           1.t7                32.9
Discount Rate (1)              12.00          10,0           8.0
PU Costs -                     104.1         112.4         121.9
Pv Gas Voluses                 131.3         159.6         196.4
LRMC (US M/MCF)                0.793         0.704         0.621
(Kvats/NCF)               5.39          4,79          4.22
Exchan9e Rate (Ks/USV) -         648



^82-                             ANNEX 5.04
BURMA GAS DBVHLOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.      Ministry of Energy:
(a) Utilization of Natural Gas in Burma. June 1986.
(b) Natural Gas Project. December 1986.
2.      Myanma Oil Corporation:
(a) Data Given to Vorld Bank Mission (bound). June 1986.
(b) Cost Calculations for Payagon Gas.
(c) Organization, including Notifications No. 26/76, 10177 and
41/85.
(d) Accounting Policies. February 1986.
(e) Financial Data. February 1986.
(f) Investment Plans, 1987-90.
(8) Budget, 1987-92.
(h) Gas and Light Crude Reserves: Payagon Area.
February 10, 1985.
(i) Reservoir Data of Payagon Field. January 1986.
(j) Drilling Program for Payagon and Hteinkyun. December 1985.
3.      Terms of Reference (May 1987):
(a) Project Implementation Unit.
(b) Consultants for:
- Seismic Reservoir Interpretation
- Corrosion Control
-  Pipeline Inspection
- Distribution System Design
- Telecommunications/Telemetering, SCADA and Computer Software
4.      Financial and Economic Rate of Return Calculations.  May 1987.
5.      Cowiconsult.  Seismic Auxillary Terrain Vehicle Survey Report.
April 1987.
6.      Minutes of Technical Discussions Held During Credit Negotiations,
May 4-8, 1987.
7.      Aide-Memoire on the Formation of a Task Force for the Myanma Oil
Corporation Financial Viability Study.



WRMA
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTIL7ATION PROJECT
Energy Sector OrIgaNzOion
M bft d 
I2. AIno.Io aI           II llon            P onICno
1. 6cork Pkr           1. Pbnr               m                  1. Pkni               1. oP t.oI
I Prawm  Pbn           2. bvioratio         2. Ait  Rratn       IFwe                  2. Pkino
3. -oonerai Pknft      & DAgiV              & CAACION3.vement   3. DIst2utionn        3. Hvoelec#eC
4 Enkoesn           4. FIance              Ssa                   condauction
5. Fklds            6 Production        4 Genral Adr*nw       4 Motedlo Pkng
& AdmInistarI       6. Resach ond          ttatlon             & Adft**wtralon
7. F bnance           Develpment                              6 Fnnc
d 0007.1



WRF
GAS DEVROPMENT AND UMlZATON PROJECr
Orgonizofon Chait for MV=mo 06 CoMmiprlon (MOC)
A,   D Oboctm
L             I~~~
uectomtft               avlnng  eb                                     Adffi X  I  t       I       h
Px*ocu  ceoiogRv               Ccnens"                              __ho*  co
___          mg                     RsI~~~~~~~~~~~~PO  Telsonwen-    Blet'-mion
Remaxch               _ArKto                    4ct         stome       oout
f] fEI                                                                    Aooowu:I
Afoorls                      Ii
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V*W~~~



BURMA GAS DEVEWPKENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
GOB FY ending March 31                                    1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
l  1 I            I   II    III                 i I 1 
Project Component
I.    Gas Field Development
A.  Seismic Development                                 -         -    _   -    -
B. Development Drilling/Reserve Appraisal
C.  Production and Transport                                          I
II.   Gas Transmission and Distribution
A.  18" diameter pipeline                               -         -          -    -    - _
B.  Upgrading of Ywama city gas station,
including telecommunications/telemetering
C.  Cathodic protection for 10-inch pipeline                           _
D.  Basic distribution development (Rangoon)                    I
III.  Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
A.  Specialized consultancies                           -    _   _
B.  Studies:
Enhanced Oil Recovery Studies                     *      _         - _        _    _    _   _    _
Gas Utilization Study
C.  Training                                                                -    -    -          -    -    - _
IV.   LPG/CNG Pilot Scheme                                                    --
T-T  --I           ----I .-= =



MiAP SECTION



IBRD 19766
j.o X                 CHf~~CNDWI 
j   -tSN \j                                            oMandalay
.  ¢ \                   < ~~~~~~Pakokk-v 
\' '__ ., s ,CENTRAL SURMA 
Ramnr6ee                           >        
Island                           ,                 
% ¢/SZ a~UPER 061- TA\
s  .                 1   >         B -    --   X~~~~~~ ~~~~~~awchi*  
B U  R  M  A                               t;--t            ''      - 
GAS -APPRAISAL AND                                 --o       - --;i  
,UTILIZATION PROJECT    /             :                                           g*
(7-I Sedimentary Bs"Ins Area                                                                IL  t X >TL
Gas Fields                                     /,-. {7byangale)
Propose d Gas Pipeline/,                                                                iumein  
Ph-  11mf                                     1-          
"_ _   ~~ivers_     w     S_
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~DCME 19R



