Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14629
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1840-BA)
JUNE 20, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Kyat (K)
K 5.99           =       US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                                     0. 159 cubic meters
I cubic foot (CF)              =                   0.028 cubic meters
I kilometer (km)                =                  0.621 miles
BCF                             =                  billion cubic feet
bpd                                                barrels per day
MCF                                                thousand standard cubic feet
MIMbbl                                             million barrels
TCF                                                trillion cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNG              Compressed Natural Gas
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
GOM              Government of Myanmar
GUS              Gas Utilization Study
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDA              International Development Association
IOC              International Oil Companies
MOGE             Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise
MOU              Memorandum of Understanding
OED              Operation Evaluation Department of the Bank
PSC              Production Sharing Contract/ Contractors
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP             United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
Gas DeveloRment and Utilization Project
(Credit 1840-BA)
Table of Contents
Preface                     ................................................i
Evaluation Summary ................................................ii
Part I    PROJECT IMPEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ...............................................                       ,.1
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .............................1...................
Achievement of Objectives ................................................ 2
Implementation  Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.............5.................................5
Project Sustainability ................................................5
Bank Perfornance ...............................                                                             ........0.....0..6
Borrower Performance ................................................6
Assessment of Outcome  ...............................................                                                                     7
Future Operations ................................................7
Key Lessons Learnt ...............................................                                                                         7
Part iI             Statistical Tables
Table I   Summary of Assessments ...............................................                                                           9
Table  2    Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................................... 10
Table 3   Project Timetable ............................................... 10
Table  4    Credit  Disbursements:Cumulative, Estimated, and Actual ..............................                                        10.... IO
Table 5         Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                  1............................................... 1
Table 6         Key Indicators for Project Operations ............................................... 11
Table 7         Studies Included  in the Project ...............                               ................................ 11
Table 8A  Project Costs ...............................................                                                                  12
Table 8B  Project Financing ................................................ 12
Table 9         Economic  Costs and  Benefits ................................................ 12
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants ............................................... 13
Table  11   Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ....................... .....  . ........ 13
Table  12   Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................... 13
Table  13   Bank  Resources:  Missions ............................................... 14
Appendices:
Appendix  A           Mission's Aide-Memoire  ........................................ ,,.,.,,.,... 15
Appendix B   Borrower's Evaluation Report ........................................,,,.,,... 18
Appendix C  Cofinancier (UNDP's) Contribution .......................................,,.                                                . 21
Appendix D  Comments on the Payagon Gas Reserves .....................................                                          ,        , 23
Appendix E  Borrower's Comments on the ICR ...................................... ,.,,... 26
Appendix F  Payagon Gas field Economic Rate of Return .....................................                                              32
Map IBRD 19766R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
'OMfficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-l-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GAS UTILIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(1840-BA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gas Utilization and
Development Project in Myanmar, for which credit in the amount of SDR 48.3 million
(equivalent to US$63 million) was approved on July 21, 1987 and made effective on
January 5, 1988.
The credit was closed on July 6, 1993 compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. Final adjustment to disbursement took place on July 6, 1993, at
which time a balance of SDR 32.45 million (equivalent to US$42 million) was cancelled.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by UNDP.
The ICR was prepared by U.S. Kirmani of MN2PI (Task Manager) and P. Ve-
nugopal (Consultant), reviewed by Vineet Nayyar, Chief of Infrastructure Division of the
East Asia and Pacific Region (EAIIN) and Mohammad Farhandi, Project Adviser, Coun-
try Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region. The borrower has given its comments on
the ICR, which have been incorporated in the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission to My-
anmar during December 12-20, 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The bor-
rower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing their own evaluation of the
project 's execution and initial preparation.



-11-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GAS UTILIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1840-BA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    This was the first and only IDA operation in the petroleum sector of Myanmar. It
established the framework for: (i) pursuing the IDA's sector policy recommendations re-
sulting from the joint World Bank/United Nations Development Program (UTNDP) Energy
Assessment of June 1985; and (ii) building further on the petroleum sector dialogue that
had resulted in positive shifts in the Government of Myanmar's (GOM) development pol-
icy for the sector. As a consequence of GOM's keenness to reform the sector, a review of
the "Energy Sector Investment and Policy" was conducted jointly by the Bank and UNDP
and a report issued on March 16, 1992.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were as follows:
(a) alleviate shortages of petroleum by developing further the Payagon gas field
which was under partial production, by helping to add about 35 million cubic feet per day
(MMCFD) to the 30 MMCFD under production; appraise for further augmentation of
production; and provide for transmission to Yangon and neighborhood and distribution of
the increasing volumes of the gas;
(b) provide technical assistance and training opportunities for Myanmar Oil and
Gas Enterprise (MOGE);
(c) support sector policy objectives of introducing gas pricing reform, initiate
steps to improve MOGE's finances and strengthen capabilities for gas investment plan-
ning.
3.    In pursuance of the sector policy objectives, GOM/ MOGE agreed to carry out
studies concerning the financial viability of MOGE; for firming up gas supply estimates
and preparing a master plan for gas utilization; and improving oil recovery in two declining
oil fields. A re-evaluation of the objectives now, shows that while the objectives were ap-
propriate, the expectations from Payagon gas field (the center-piece of the project in-
vestment) were too sanguine. It delivered about one-tenth of the quantity of gas expected
of it from pre-project and project wells (Phase I) i.e., 41 Billion Cubic Feet (BCF) were
produced as compared with estimated gas recovery of 400 BCF. Payagon ceased



-iii-
to produce in 1994, whereas according to appraisal estimate it was expected to produce
until after 2008.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    In the development of Payagon field, the drilling component had provided for the
drilling of 12 development wells (for Phase I production) and five appraisal wells (for
appraising additional reserves to be exploited in a subsequent Phase II). In all, 16 wells
were drilled and only six had gas finds, all of which together with the pre-project produc-
ing wells ceased to produce by or before March 1994. Nevertheless, Payagon's incre-
mental gas production under the project (8 BCF) in the period FYI 989 to FYI 994 came
at a critical time of high international petroleum prices and paucity of foreign exchange in
Myanmar and helped reduce import of petroleum products, particularly diesel oil in the
country.
5.    Although Payagon failed to deliver as expected, MOGE has developed a gas field
(Apyauk, not part of the project) close to Yangon discovered by an international oil com-
pany (IOC) in 1991, but relinquished by it in September 1993. It is currently producing 90
MMCFD, more than what Payagon was expected to produce under the original estimates.
Apyauk has a potential to produce 120-150 MMCFD, when fiully developed. It will sig-
nificantly contribute to meet the gas requirement earlier expected to be met from Payagon.
6.    The sector policies advocated by the Bank in its dialogues with GOM/MOGE have
had the beneficial effect of Myanmar opening its exploration areas to IOCs. Some 20 con-
sortia spent over US$500 million and although only four companies out of the consortia
have not pulled out, one of these group has achieved significant success in developing a
giant offshore gas field (6 TFC of proven gas) which was discovered by MOGE in 1980.
This field will be developed primarily for exporting gas to Thailand commencing from
1998 and supplying some gas quantities to meet domestic gas requirements in Myanmar
by year 2000. One group of Production Sharing type Contract (PSC) company comprised
of TEXACO, PREMIER and Nippon Oil Company discovered one sizable gas condensate
field (Yetagun Field) in Panintharyi offshore area and furhter exploration efforts are
taking place.
7.    The objective of technical assistance and training has been adequately fulfilled,
with UNDP providing the bulk of the funds (US$2.7 million). The recommendations of
the studies made under the project led to the turning around of MOGE. By increasing gas
prices, MOGE turned around from a losing to a profit making entity since FY1990,
MOGE also invited bids for PSCs for improving oil recovery (e.g., for chauk field) and in
developing capability to plan for investments in the gas subsector.



-Iv-
8.    The project costs which were estimated at US$100 million were reduced to US$40
million as a result of cancellation due to unavailability of sufficient gas. In January 1988, it
was clear that Payagon reserve estimates had to be scaled down drastically from the op-
timistic assumptions made at appraisal in December 1986, consequently, the supervision
mission requested MOGE to hold in abeyance the laying of the gas pipeline to Yangon and
construction of the distribution network. In due course, this component was not pro-
ceeded with. IDA disbursements were also curtailed and finally limited to the equivalent of
US$21 million against the credit allocation equivalent to US$63 million.
9.    At identification the objectives were appropriately selected. But during preparation
and appraisal, too much reliance was placed on MOGE' s overoptimistic assumptions and
estimation of the reserves. MOGE had not anticipated that the sands in the reservoir
could be severely lenticular and not continuous and gas bearing all through. It would have
been prudent for IDA to have asked for an independent assessment by consultants early
on. It was belatedly done in November 1988. The Borrower's performance is, however,
rated as satisfactory as MOGE fulfilled all its obligations with due speed and diligence in
drilling the wells, in producing efficiently what there was to produce, absorbing new tech-
nology and inviting the private sector to assist in exploration and development to the best
possible extent.
10.   The outcome of the project as a whole is characterized as unsatisfactory: Payagon
gas reserves were found to be drastically reduced (41 BCF against appraisal expectation of
about 400 BCF). With IDA's close supervision and timely intervention to modify the
project and stop further expenditure under the credit, only US$21 million out of a total
credit of US$63 million were utilized.
Findinps, Future Ouerations and Key Lessons
11.   Myanmar offers scope for continued IDA role provided the political climate is ac-
ceptable and with advise and assistance as necessary, in domestic gas projects such as
Apyuak to be further developed and the offshore gas field to be developed for transmis-
sion of Myanmar's share of the gas for domestic utilization. More immediately, Myanmar
could benefit by advice and assistance on environmental protection, avoidance of pollu-
tion, safety and standards in operation and maintenance, especially in the offshore activi-
ties of IOCs. The key lessons from the project, which has not been met in its main target
of production from Payagon, is that greater caution is required in the assessment of hydro-
carbon reserves, more time has to be devoted to studying data and checking on assump-
tions than is possible in the spot reviews by the IDA missions; and it is advisable that ex-
perienced consultants, be used at appraisal or before negotiations than after the project
implementation has started. The soundness of the enduring advice by IDA to developing
countries to invoke interest in exploration by IOCs is substantiated by the Myanmar expe-
rience.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1840-BA)
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    A joint Association/UNDP Energy Assessment Study had been conducted in June
1985 resulting in a petroleum sector dialogue with the Government of Myanmar (GOM).
Myanmar had large hydrocarbon reserves, however, oil production was low and was de-
clining. Gas development was at an early stage. A major opportunity available to the
country was to increase the role of the sizable natural gas reserves to meet the energy de-
mand. Accelerated development and utilization of the onshore Payagon gas reserves,
(which were under partial production then), appeared to provide an immediate and least-
cost supply option. Additional gas was to be delivered to Yangon and to southern Myan-
mar.
B. Statement/Evaluation of Obiectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were:
(a) alleviate the chronic shortages of petroleum by developing further Payagon
gas field-drilling development wells and adding 35 MMCFD to the ongoing production of
about 30 MMCFD; and by drilling appraisal wells for proving more reserves to further
augment production in due course;
(b) expand and upgrade the transmission facilities from Payagon to Yangon and
design a basic distribution network for Yangon;
(c) provide technical assistance and training opportunities for the Myanmar Oil
and Gas Enterprise (MOGE); and
(d) support sector policy objectives of introducing gas pricing reform based on
full cost recovery, initiate steps to improve MOGE's finances, and strengthen GOM's ca-
pabilities for gas subsector investment planning in petroleum subsector.
3.    Re-evaluating the project objectives, it is found that Payagon failed to deliver gas
as expected (total gas production was about one-tenth of expectations and production
ceased some 14 years before anticipated cessation), and appraisal estimates of gas recov-
ery proved too optimistic. An analysis of the basis for such optimism and how that opti-
mism was engendered is presented in a detailed note (Appendix A). The subsector objec-



2
tives, which were well conceived, were important by themselves. These included pricing
gas to avoid subsidies, making MOGE financially viable, and improving of GOM's capa-
bilities for investment planning.
C. Achievement of Objectives
4.    The main objective of supplying gas from Payagon to alleviate petroleum shortages
in and around Yangon was realized only to a small measure (see graph of cumulative pro-
duction). However,  I
the limited supplies                       cumulative Gas Production
were used at a critical                        Until CessAion 
time of high petro-        500
leum prices and
paucity of foreign
exchange for imports,      400
yielding a satisfactory
economic rate of           300
return. Interestingly,   m "
what Payagon failed        200
to do, namely to
provide a sustainable
source of gas to           100
Yangon and the vi-
cinity, was compen-          0
sated by a new dis-              1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  2008
covery by a foreign              __Crruatve_ctal_ron__Cuulaiv_SA_Etimte
company in 1991,
Apyauk gas field (not
part of the project), located 50 miles from Yangon. On relinquishment of this field in
September 1993 by an international oil company (IOC), MOGE took up the field devel-
opment. It salvaged some material and equipment from the Payagon gas field (to the tune
of about US$4 million of IDA supplies to Payagon) and used it at Apyauk field, which is
now producing 90 MMCFD of natural gas. This is more than the 65 MMCFD which Pay-
agon would have been producing if the appraisal expectations were fulfilled. Apyauk is
likely to reach a plateau production of 120-150 MMCFD, if MOGE can find the external
finances to develop the field further and transmit and distribute the gas.
5.    As supervision missions became increasingly skeptical of the production potential
of the Payagon gas field, decisions to curtail disbursements for some components of the
project were taken. In January-February 1988, GOM was advised not to lay the new 18"
pipeline to Yangon. In March 1991, GOM was requested to stop all work and request the
IDA to close the Credit. In consequence, expansion and upgradation of the transmission
facilities from Payagon to Yangon and designing of a basic distribution network for Yan-
gon were not proceeded with. Although GOM did not immediately move to close the
Credit as advised in March 1991, disbursements were not made and the Credit was finally



3
closed on July 6, 1993, about six months before the original closing date of December 31,
1993.
6.    The objective of extending technical assistance and training for MOGE personnel
was achieved except for items connected with expanding and upgrading the transmission
and distribution of gas in Yangon. Technical assistance included assistance for consultant
studies for an improved oil recovery program in two fields (Chauk and Tetma) and for
gas utilization (a master plan covering onshore and offshore). Both studies were carried
out competently. These studies were also used in preparing the UNDP/IDA's "Myanmar:
Energy Sector Investment and Policy Review" (Review) which was issued on March 16,
1992. MOGE has recently received bids for production sharing type of contracts for im-
proving oil recovery from seven fields including Chauk. Tetma was considered by consult-
ants as not economic for improved recovery. The gas utilization study together with the
UNDP/IDA's recommendations in the Review have resulted in GOM awarding a produc-
tion sharing contract for its offshore Moattama structure to a consortium of foreign oil
companies. Appraisal work completed by the consortium has determined proven gas re-
serves at around 6 TCF. A Memorandum Of Understanding (MOU) for export from 1998
of about 500 MMCFD of gas by pipeline to Thailand commencing in 1982, has been
signed. GOM hopes to utilize its share of the gas, for domestic use in Myanmar, by year
2000.
7.    The training of MOGE personnel was successfully completed under a well -
designed program comprising training abroad (30 staff benefited, six of whom were
deputed as post graduate fellows) and seminars by foreign experts in Myanmar (six were
held). The transfer of technology helped in enhancing the skills of the staff concerned. A
trained body of Myanmar personnel was thus available for discussions with the 20 or so
international oil consortia who were awarded production sharing contracts in Myanmar.
8.    UNDP cofinanced as grant ( Program MYA/86/013) the bulk of the technical as-
sistance and training, with US$2.71 million. IDA implemented the program on behalf of
UNDP. UNDP organized an independent review of UNDP programs in Myanmar. Its
comments on both MYA/86/01 3 and the UNDP/Bank's Review are given as under: All in
all we would rate these two projects as being of high value in both their immediate and
longer term development in a critical sector of the economy. For that reason, and because
of the close link between the training provided by a committed group of experts and its
continuing use, the sustainability of the projects is very high.
9.    The financial viability study of MOGE was conducted in-house. GOM had agreed
with the Association that the price for gas should be raised from 2.5 kyats to 7.5 kyats
(US$1.13 at official exchange rates) per MCF so as to cover costs. The price of crude oil
was also raised from 65 kyats/barrel to 110 kyats/barrel effective October 1988. GOM
also made adjustments in the equity capital of MOGE by assuming liabilities for MOGE's
net dues to the Myanma Economic Bank. These measures and some more increases in gas
(to 10 kyats/MCF) and oil prices (to 126 kyats/barrel) from August 4, 1994 have turned
round MOGE from a losing to a profit-making entity since FY1990, showing satisfactory



4
financial indicators and ability to self finance a part of its capital expenditure. But its
greatest constraint is foreign exchange and GOM's allocations to it are far from sufficient.
The recommendations made in the Review concerning commercialization and corporatiza-
tion of the institution have not been carried out.
10.   Following the recommendations made in various studies, the Ministry of Energy
and the Directorate General of Energy Planning have developed and implemented a clear
strategy for development of the energy sector. Unfortunately of the 20 production sharing
contracts (PSC) operations, (18 onshore and 2 offshore), only 2 onshore and 2 offshore
are making progress, the others having been unsuccessful. Until 1994, the international oil
companies had spent upwards of US$500 million on exploration and appraisal. One off-
shore operation has been successful in discovering additional gas reserves as mentioned
earlier and the other offshore operation appears headed for success. The ongoing move
by MOGE to invite PSCs for improved oil recovery is a prudent approach to take the best
advantage of the state of the art technology. That gas, oil and petroleum product prices
have been revised significantly by August 4, 1994 to eliminate subsidies is to be com-
mended, but the continued adoption of an unrealistic official exchange rate of $1=6 kyats,
(when the open market rate is currently $ 1=107 kyats) is a distortion which should be
remedied.
11.   A component of the Project was the experimental introduction of Compressed
Natural Gas (CNG). The pilot scheme for establishing three stations to serve about 400
vehicles was successfully implemented. MOGE plans to extend the scheme and set up five
more stations, to use in all 1.35 MMCFD of gas. Myanmar has thus a working model in
the Far East for use of CNG which could be studied by other countries in the region. Nev-
ertheless, the economics may not be attractive, since each CNG station is said to cost
about US$1.8 million to establish (grant elements cloud the actual costs), but is helping to
save gasoline only to the extent of about US$0.13 million per year. MOGE has been ad-
vised to study the economics carefully before undertaking a major expansion of the pilot
project.
12.   Economic Rate of Return: A re-estimation of the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) for the project is not a meaningful exercise, given that the eventual productive life
of the gas field fell significantly short of original expectation. However, an ERR was es-
timated for the incremental costs and benefits associated with the revised complete
project. Namely, for the Payagon gas supply, the SAR had estimated the return for the
field as a whole over a period of 1988 to 2008, taking into account investments under the
IDA project only, but all production of gas arising from the IDA project as well as pre-
1988 investments. The ERR obtained thus was given as 72% under one scenario of future
international prices for diesel oil and fuel oil (that would be substituted by the Payagon
gas) and 46% under a conservative scenario of such prices. The official exchange rate was
used for conversion. In practice, however, gas from the Payagon field was produced be-
tween FY1984 and FY1994. Investments were made and operating expenditure incurred
from FY1982 to FY1994, with the IDA project investments being made between FY1989
and FY 1993. Based on the actual data over the entire life of the field from FY1982 to



5
FY1994, ERR has been calculated at 29.4%. ' The ERR of 29.4% is explained by the
fact that only about US$21 million of IDA Credit was utilized against US$63 million that
was available, and the incremental production under the IDA project commenced two
years earlier than foreseen. The SAR methodology did not consider the ERR exclusive for
the IDA incremental project (for the incremental production added by the project with ref-
erence to the costs and benefits relevant to it). This has now been done, and based on the
assumptions outlined in Appendix F, the ERR for the IDA project works out to 28%.
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Proiect
13.   The project was implemented satisfactorily by MOGE. Drilling results were re-
viewed with IDA, and after the reserves audit indicated lower than expected gas reserves,
project components were reviewed and further expenditures curtailed in time. The actual
project cost was US$40 million with 59% as the foreign currency component. The SAR
had provided for the drilling of 12 development wells and 5 appraisal wells. In fact, 12 ap-
praisal wells and 4 development wells were drilled, of which 6 wells found gas for short
term production of a total quantity of about 8 BCF (SAR estimate, about 200 BCF) out of
the 41 BCF (SAR estimate, about 400 BCF) which was the total gas production from the
Payagon field.
E. Proiect Sustainabilitv
14.   In view of the fact that 41 BCF of natural gas was produced as compared with ap-
praisal estimate of about 400 BCF, the project can not be considered sustainable as ap-
praised. However, with prudent action taken to maximize the benefits from the available
gas resources, and curtail expenditure from the IDA credit (US$21 million out of a total
credit of US$63 million), the modified project is sustainable.
In fact, if the SAR estimates were adjusted for the whole life of the field (instead of the period 1988
2008), the expected return would have been 37% in the high future petroleum prices scenario and
25% under the low prices scenario.



6
F. Bank Performance
15.   The overall assessment of Bank performance is rated satisfactory even though the
production from the Payagon gas field was far below the appraisal estimates and a sub-
stantial part of the Credit amount could not be utilized. At identification, the IDA mission
correctly felt that gas development was the key to energy and economic growth. While
development of the Payagon gas field was the main element in the strategy, the other
components of the project, especially the studies, technical assistance and training, and
planning for oil and gas development which then appeared to be subsidiary objectives ac-
tually became the anchor of the energy (particularly gas) take-off currently in progress.
Thanks to these subsidiary objectives, which were pursued diligently, buttressed by the
recommendations in the UNDP/IDA's "Myanmar: Energy Sector Investment and Policy
Review", GOM resorted to a number of PSCs with the international private sector in ex-
ploration of oil and gas in Myanmar. In the project preparation, it appears that IDA staff
should have been more cautious with reference to one component and an essential one at
that, relating to Payagon gas development. The appraisal mission apparently relied too
much on the assumptions of MOGE regarding reserve estimates. An independent evalua-
tion of the reserves by consultants, which was found necessary during project implemen-
tation, should have been carried out prior to appraisal! negotiations. Normal practice for
the Bank/IDA has rarely been to depend on the Borrower's analysis and estimates of re-
serves and limit the verification to an on the spot review. There were four supervision
missions between FY1988 and FY1991 (virtual stoppage of the project works at Payagon
had occurred by March 1991). The performance of these missions was satisfactory.
G. Borrower Performance
16.   The performance of the Borrower (GOM and MOGE) is rated as satisfactory at all
stages of the project cycle. The project was prepared to the best of the then technical ca-
pacity of MOGE, which was limited at that time but has been enhanced since. An efficient
project directorate guided the implementation and monitored the progress with due care.
The periodic reports on performance to MOGE's management and Association were satis-
factory. Sixteen wells under the project were drilled speedily on force account (an aver-
age of 5 months from spudding to completion for a well with an average depth of 8,000
ft) and the six wells which discovered gas were put on production efficiently.
GOM/MOGE had not moved to request for the closing of the credit by September 1991,
as suggested by the IDA supervision mission in March 1991. They had delayed the re-
quest until October 1992. However, all future expenditures were suspended during this
period.
17.   The Borrower's satisfactory performance is explained in paras. 5-9. Nevertheless,
in the area of utilizing gas in the domestic economy, progress is likely to be constrained in
the absence of external finance. It is interesting to note that in the attached Borrower's
Evaluation Report, a key lesson learnt is stated as "External financing is invaluable and
development agencies have a big role to play. Continued interest of IDA and UNDP



7
would significantly contribute towards efficient development of energy sector in Myan-
mar.
H. Assessment of Outcome
18.   The overall outcome as regards the original project and its objectives is rated as
unsatisfactory. However, benefits, direct and indirect, such as enhancement of technical
skills and of planning capabilities (in MOGE/GOM), opening of the country to private
sector exploration and production have been worthy of achievement.
I. Future Operations
19.   As the Payagon operations have ceased, an action plan is not called for. The other
objectives in the subsector which were achieved, are sustainable.
20.   Myanmar offers scope for a continued role by IDA, provided the political climate
is acceptable and whenever circumstances would so allow. Meanwhile, MOGE has ex-
pressed concern with the aspects of environmental protection, avoidance of pollution,
protection against hazards in operation and safety, prescribing standards and framing nec-
essary regulations, particularly offshore where large gas finds, would be developed. An
IDA mission could study the requirements and such a mission would be welcomed by
GOM/MOGE.
21.   The Borrower's Evaluation Report presents a critical evaluation and additional
data provided by the Borrower is in the project files. With the abandonment of the Pay-
agon gas field, all personnel connected with it have been dispersed and key staff have re-
tired from service. It is to the credit of MOGE that pending the visit of the ICR mission
(17 months after closing ) nucleus staff was maintained, a compendium of data had been
prepared as early as September 1992 and was updated during the ICR mission's visit.
J. Key Lessons Learnt
22.   Assessment of proven reserves and production profiles must be done with extreme
care. If adequate data, on well behavior and performance (pressure maintenance, water
entry, etc) is lacking, projects should be designed in such a way that data is collected prior
to finalization of the project scope. In this project, the appraisal mission had come to a
tentative, but highly optimistic conclusion about the extent of the gas reserves during ap-
praisal in December 1986, but had no further discussion with MOGE on the reserves until
late January 1988. MOGE had gathered valuable additional information during 1987 and,
had IDA made a review of this data during negotiations in May 1987 or before Board
presentation July 1987 or even by Credit Effectiveness on January 5, 1988, the project de-
scription might have been different with more realistic production objectives.
23.   Besides scrutiny by the IDA's staff of the reserve data, it is prudent to seek inde-
pendent opinion of consultants, who have facilities to analyze data in depth and interpret



8
and carry out various laboratory tests, do modeling etc., and suggest specific and experi-
mental field operations to substantiate tentative inferences.
24.   The Bank/ IDA's advice on incentives to attract foreign investors' interest in ex-
ploration and development yielded gratifying results in Myanmar as IOCs spent over
US$500 million by 1994 in exploration, both onshore and offshore. Above all, Myamnar
has a rich gas field offshore at present, being developed for gas export by a consortium of
lOCs.



9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A: Achievement of objectives    Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                     *
Sector Policies                                *
Financial objectives                           *
Institutional Development                      *
Physical objectives                                        *
Poverty reduction                                                          *
Gender concerns                                                            *
Other social objectives                                                    *
Environmental objectives                                                   *
Public sector management                                                   *
Private sector development                     *
B. Project sustainability      Likell                 Unlikely                Uncertain
Payagon gas field                                     *
Other objectives              *
Hijgb                  Satisfactory            Deficient
Satisfacton
C. Bank performance
Identification                                         *
Preparation assistance                                                     *
Appraisal                                                                  *
Supervision                   *
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                           *
Implementation                                        *
Covenant compliance                                  *
Highly         Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory Hjighy
E. Assessment of outcome       Satisfactory                             Unsatisfactorv
*



10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/ Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose        Year of approval       Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle        Date planned           Date actual
Identification                        February 1986         February 1986
Preparation                           June 1986              June 1986
Appraisal                             December 1986         December 1986
Negotiations                          April 1987            May 4-8, 1987
Board presentation                    May 1987              July 21, 1987
Signing                                                     October 10, 1987
Effectiveness                         October 13, 1987      January 5, 1988
Project completion                    June 30, 1993         March 31, 1991
Loan closing                          December 31, 1993     July 6, 1993
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY1988 FY1989 FY1990 FY1991  FY1992 FY1993
Appraisal estimates            13900   35500   51300   62700   62900   63000
Actual                         5036   15971   21504   21504   21504   21062*
Actual as % of estimate          36       45       42      34       34       33
Date of final disbursement    * July 6, 1993 on which date IDA received refund of $441,938,
the unspent amount out of the initial deposit in the special account.



11
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation                      Estimated            Actual
indicators in
SAR (Chart 3)
1. Gas Field Development                Sep.  1991          Nov.  1990
2. Gas Transmission & Distrbn.          March 1992          Not done
3. Tech. Assistance, Studies & Training  March 1993         Dec.  1992
4. CNG Pilot Scheme                     Sep.  1992          Dec.  1990
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Key operating                           Estimated           Actual
indicators
in SAR
1. Commence production                  Oct.  1990          Mar. 1989
2. Reach plateau production             Apr. 1993           Apr. 1990
3. Maintain full production          till Mar. 2008         Mar. 1994 (ceased)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as defined            Status      Impact of study
at appraisal
1. Improved oil recovery    Address production difficulties   Completed   MOGE has received bids
in two oil fields                         for prodn. sharing type of
contracts to improve reco-
very in seven oil fields
2. Gas utilization study    Firm up gas supply estimates and  Completed   A major gas find offshore
develop a master plan for gas use          was appraised by a con-
sortium of IOCs and a
MOU has been signed for
export of gas to Thailand.
An onshore gas field near
Yangon (Apyauk) is ser-
ving Yangon's needs.
13. Financial viability /MOGE    To recommend measures for   Completed  MOGE has been making
MOGE to become a profit                profits since FY1990
making entity



12
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$MM)           Actual cost (US$MM)
Local       Foreign              Local    Foreign
costs       costs     Total      costs     costs       Total
Items
1. Gas filed development    20.5      13.0      33.5      13.4       17.4       30.8
2. Gas transmiss & distrbn   19.0      9.0       28.0      2.1        2.9        5.0*
3. Tech assist & training  4.7         1.2        5.9      0.1        2.7        2.8
4. Appraisal drilling Ph.Il    5.0     3.0        8.0      0.0        0.0        0.0
5. CNG pilot scheme        1.5         0.5        2.0      0.5        0.7         1.2a
6. Physical contingencies    11.7      2.9       14.6
7. Price contingencies     3.1         5.0        8.1
Total                     65.5         34.6     100.1    16.1        23.7       39.8
* Some equipment and materials were procured and partially used before the decision not to lay the
pipeline was taken.
@ Some equipment was gifted, the value of which is not estimated.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$MM)    Actual financing (US$MM)
Local       Foreign              Local    Foreign
costs       costs     Total      costs     costs       Total
Source
IDA                                  63.0      63.0                  21.0        21.0
UNDP                                  2.5        2.5                  2.7         2.7
GOM/MOGE                34.6                    34.6       16.1                  16.1
Total                    34.6        65.5      100.1       16.1      23.7        39.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits 2
SAR estimate (time slice FY88-FY2008)         46% to 72% depending on international petroleum
for Payagon field as a whole with Phase I     prices
SAR estimate above, adjusted for field from   25% to 37% depending similarly on international
initial investment in FY1982 to FY2008        petroleum prices
Actual economic rate of return for field as   29.4%
a whole from FY1982 to FY1994, when
production ceased
Actual economic rate of return for the project,  28.4% (not calculated in SAR)
2 See para 12 of text.



13
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant         Present    Fulfillment   Description of
Agreement      type              status     date          covenant             Comments
Credit 1840-BA
Section 3.04    Implementation    C         1987         Create project imple-
mentation unit
Schedule 5     Implementation     C         1988        - plan for CNG pilot
1989 & 90    - plan for wells/
seismic surveys
Section 4.01    Accounts/audit    C         Each year     Submission of accounts
- unaudited in 9 months
- audited in 12 months
Section 4.03    Sector policy-    C        Time to time  Exchange views on energy
other                                     assessment (1985 report)
Schedule 5     Studies                     Planned
- Gas utilization  CD       - Mar 1991                        3 months delay
- Improved oil
recovery         CD       - June 1991                       TOR revised
causing a short
delay
- Financial viability C     - May 1990
C: Complied
D: Delayed
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Complied
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(In Staff Weeks)
Stages of              Planned                      Actual
project cycle
Through appraisal                100                         129.9
Appraisal-Board                   15                          14.7
Board-Effectiveness               10                          10.0
Supervision                       80                          77.3
Completion                         7                           9.0
| TOTAL                          212                         240.9



14
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of              Number Days   Specialized   Implemen- Develop-
project    Month/        of    in    staff skills     tation     ment    Types of
cycle     year        persons  field   represented    status    impact   problems
(see note*)
Through      2/1986        4       9       1,2,3,4
appraisal    6/1986        5       9     1,2,3,5,6
12/1986        6      9     1,2,3,5,6,7
Appraisal
through
Board
approval
Board        8/1987        2       9       3,8
approval
through
effective-
ness
Super-      1/1988        5       15      1,2,8,9,10
vision      8/1989        5         9     8,9,11,12,13
5/1990       3        12      8,11,14
3/1991       3        10      12,15,16
Comple-    12/1994        2        8       15,16
tion
*Note
1. A.El Mekkawy (Pet. engineer) 2. A. Smit (Geophysicist) 3. S.Khwaja (Gas engineer) 4. J.P. Pinard
(Fin. analyst) 5.Manibog (Economist) 6. Snook 7. Sergo (Fin. analyst) 8. Bertelsmeir (Fin. analyst)
9. Mian  1O. Duncan  1. Fitzgerald (Geologist) 12. Kirmani (Pet. engineer) 13. Montes (Pet.
engineer) 14. Malhotra (Energy specialist) 15. Venugopal (Fin. analyst) 16. Zubair (Pet. engineer)



15
Appendix A
Aide Memoire
MYANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
DECEMBER 1994
1.          A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. U. Kirmani (Senior Petroleum
Engineer)' and P. Venugopal (Consultant) visited Yangon from December 12 to 20, 1994 to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report of the Gas Development and Utilization Project
(CR 1840-BA) including the UNDP financed Petroleum T.A. and Training component.
2.           The mission met with the representatives of the Ministry of Energy (MOE) and
Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise (MOGE) and liaised closely with UNDP.
3.           The mission expresses its appreciation of the excellent cooperation and hospitafity
extended to it by its Myanmar hosts. It also wishes to acknowledge the excellent cooperation it
received from the UNDP.
4.           The findings and conclusions of the mission on the Project are as follows.
(a)   The main objective of developing the Payagon gas field with a view to provide
Yangon and its contiguous areas with natural gas was not fully fulfilled due to far lower as well as
far briefer production of natural gas than had been expected at appraisal. Nevertheless, the small
production of natural gas from the field was valuable to the extent (and the critical time) it was
realized helping to substitute petroleum products, specially diesel oil in power generation. Further,
the outlay on the project was curtailed as soon as it was known- about three years before the due
date for closing of the credit- that the gas reserves would be well below original estimates. In the
event, IDA credit of SDR48.3 million (US$63.0 million) was availed of upto SDR15.85 million
(US$21.0 million) only by mutual understanding.
(b)   The studies under the Project were successfully carried out. The Financial Viability
Study resulted in MOGE turning from a losing to a profit making enterprise. The Gas Utilization
Study and the Study for Improved Oil Recovery made useful recommendations which have been
followed up. During the Project, World Bank's 'Myanmar: Energy Sector Investment and Policy
Review Study' was also issued on March 16, 1992 and the recommendations made therein were
1 Mr. Kirmani was present at Yangon until December 16, 1994.



16
also taken into consideration in planning the energy strategy of the country. The training compo-
nent, where the bulk of the fund requirements came from a UNDP grant, was fully implemented
and upgradation of professional skills was achieved.
(c)    The evolving strategy for gas has been paying off In spite of Payagon's
disappointing performance, the present position is not bleak in that a new gas field (Apyauk) close
to Yangon has, since late 1993, been producing natural gas more than replacing Payagon and
exceeding the original expectations from it; and, the development of the offshore fields is pro-
gressing very satisfactorily, with targets for exporting gas to Thailand and in due course of
landing Myanmar's share of the gas in Myanmar.
(d)   The CNG pilot adopted on a reduced scale to provide for three stations and 450
vehicles has been technically successful and has saved gasoline, but the financial and economic
rates of return remain to be calculated (With the data MOGE is collecting, this will be done in the
ICR). MOGE is proposing to extend the pilot to add five more stations.
5.          The mission was pleased to find that MOGE had, as early as September 1992,
prepared a Project Completion Report (PCR), which is a compendium of comprehensive data on
the several aspects of the Project. MOGE is updating the report. MOGE is preparing a short
critical review of the Project as discussed with the mission to be sent to IDA together with the
updated PCR before January 15, 1995 as the borrower's contribution to the ICR.
6.          No operation plan for the future of the Project has been considered necessary since
Payagon has ceased to produce gas. Action on the other objectives has been taken.
7.           A list of officials met is attached as annex 1.



17
Annex I
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION REPORT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION (DECEMBER 1994)
List Of Officials Met2
Ministry of Enerv
1.    U Tin Tun                               Deputy Minister
2.    U SoeMyint*                             Director General
Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise (MOGE)
1.    U Pe Kyi*                               Managing Director
2.    U Kyaw Nyein*                           Director (Planning)
3.    UWin*                                   Director (Engineering)
4.    U Than Tin*                             Director (Planning)
5.    U Nyunt                                 General Manager (Explrn.)
6.    U SeinWin                                Sr.Transport Engineer
7.    U Win Myint                             Sr.Transport Engineer
United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
1. Mr. Douglas W. Gardner*                    Resident Representative
2. Mr. Maurice Dewulf
2 Aide Memoire is circulated to the officials whose names are marked with an
asterisk and U Thein Aung Lwin, Director General, FERD.



18
(Provisional pending FERD's/Mvanmar Confirmation)
Appendix B
SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
MYANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROTECT
CREDIT 1840-BA
PROJECT OBJECTIVFS
l.    This first World Bank/IDA operation in the petroleum sector was intended to help
alleviate chronic shortages of petroleum, which has hindered growth of Myanmar econ-
omy. This was to be achieved by assisting in the future development of the onshore Pay-
agon gas field as well as the introduction of modern petroleum technology and latest ad-
vance in the international petroleum engineering and production practices.
To achieve the overall objective, the project would support:
(i) a development and appraisal drilling component for the Payagon gas
field;
(ii) a gas transmission and distribution component that would deliver
Payagon gas to large customers in Yangon;
(iii) technical assistance and training to assist in the implementation of the
various project components as well as studies to identify options for
enhancing oil recovery and to strengthen investment planning
capabilities in the gas subsector.
2.    The PGUDP's fundamental objective was to transfer Myanmar's natural gas
wealth into a major driving force for economic growth. It consisted of two phases. For
phase I, to produce an additional 35 MMCFD for the Yangon area and for phase II, an-
other 35 MMCFD or more to serve areas beyond Yangon. Total peak production from the
Payagon field by the late 1990 would reach around 80 MNMCFD, serving Yangon as well
as Sittaung, Thaton and Myaingalay.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3     The main objective of supplying from Payagon to Yangon and surrounding areas
was only partially achieved. The gas production from the field was far lower than expected
and the production also ceased in 1994. But while it lasted, it provided a valuable source
of energy and substituted for diesel oil which would otherwise have been used in the elec-
tric power generation. Although Payagon gas position was such that, MOGE has com-
menced production from a new gas field called APYAUK in September 1993 which is
about 60 miles north west of Yangon and its daily production is more than the expected



19
Payagon's production. As a result new gas turbines will be brought into operation in the
very near future.
4.    The second objective of the technology transfer was successfully achieved. Staff
were trained abroad and seminars were conducted in Yangon.
5.    Studies for gas utilization and secondary recovery of oil were also completed and
the recommendations are being acted on. The Financial Viability Study helped to improve
MOGE's financial position.
UvIPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
6.    The seismic survey of Payagon was completed as planned. It was in the drilling
that most wells expected to have gas turned out to be dry or water bearing. While the plan
was to drill 12 development wells and 5 appraisal wells, it so happened that 16 wells were
drilled, 12 became appraisal and 4 development wells. Of these 16 wells, 6 were producers
of gas and the production from them, amounting to about 8 BCF, did not last beyond 2 or
3 years. The entire field ceased production after producing a total of 42 BCF.
7.    Six MOGE staff qualified for petroleum related fellowship courses in UK, Canada
and the Unites States of America. Thirty staff were trained abroad in Workshop type of
courses. Six seminars were held in Yangon.
8.    BEICIP conducted the Gas Utilization study and gave an assessment of the poten-
tial for gas production. One of the recommendations on offshore gas appraisal and devel-
opment was pursued by MOGE with success and the process of exporting gas to a neigh-
boring country is under way.
9.    K and A made recommendations on secondary recovery for one oil field. At pres-
ent, MOGE is accepting the international bids for operation of not only this field, but other
similar fields on production sharing basis.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
10.   Since Payagon field had ceased production, the question of sustainability does not
arise. All other objectives, having been achieved, are fully sustainable.
BANK PERFORMANCE
11.   MOGE appreciates all the assistance given by the several Bank missions and also
the assistance provided by Bank staff at Washington who handled disbursements and pro-
curement.



20
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
12.   Borrower comprising the government and MOGE acted with due enthusiasm to
achieve all the objectives. There were no constraints within the organizations involved to
delay or affect achievement. ICB procedures were fully complied with. There was some
delay in acting on the advice of IDA in 1991 to close the credit and special account due to
the hope that the large unutilized balance of the credit could be applied to the project after
a modification of the description of the project, but within the overall objectives. Unfortu-
nately, the opportunity to develop Apyuak gas field came too late.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
13.   By and large, the project is rated as satisfactory. While Payagon gas field failed to
meet expectations in gas production, the project contributed towards the technical and
technological enhancement of MOGE. Combined with factors like MOGE signing several
PSCS, onshore and offshore, during the project period, MOGE considers that it has a so-
phistication higher today than when the project was identified in 1986.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
14.   MOGE has a number of projects in view, many of which were identified in World
Bank's own Energy Assessment in 1992. If financing from external sources can be se-
cured, there is scope for implementation of many of these projects. In particular, much
work has to be done to develop Apyuak gas find to its full maximum. The offshore gas
export to a neighboring country has also a component for bringing a share of the gas to
shore in Myanmar.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
15.   MOGE has refined its tools for assessment of reserves and is unlikely to be over
optimistic as it was with Payagon's expected gas supply.
16.   External financing is invaluable and development agencies have a big role to play.
Continued interest of IDA and UNDP is necessary for achievement of meeting energy re-
quirements.



21
Appendix C
COFINANCIER- UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (UNDP'S)
CONTRIBUTION
MYANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1840-BA
1.    The following is an extract from an independent review organized by UNDP on its
fifth country program for Myanmar. The review was carried out during October-
December 1992, under the leadership of Mr. Shiv K. Kapur, senior consultant.
Quote:
(viii) Oil and Gas Development
2.    The Energy Sector, which is at the heart of Myanmar's economic development,
has experienced severe shortages. After increasing at an annual rate of 8% between 1983-
84 and 1985-86, production of commercial energy declined by 5% in 1986-87 and by over
13% in the period 1987-89. The production of crude oil was the hardest hit; declining at
an average of 10% which accelerated in the late 1980s, as much of the drilling equipment
became obsolete. In contrast to the steady decline in oil production, natural gas output
increased by 20% annually during 1983-84 to 1987-88, before declining in 1988-89.
3.    A number of interlinked investment and technical assistance efforts have been
mounted by IDA, AsDB, IBRD and UNDP to assist Government in overcoming the above
mentioned critical shortages. The assessment below relates to UNDP/IBRD project
MYA/86/013: Petroleum Technical Assistance and Training and UNDP/IBRD project
MYA/89/009: Energy Sector Investment and Policy Review Study. MYA/86/013 was
designed in support of the Payagon Gas Development and Utilization project financed by
IDA with a credit of US$ 63 million. The other sequential UNDP projects included
MYA/82/005: UNDP/AsDB Umbrella II project of Pre-investment and Investment
assistance; UNDP/AsDB project MYA/86/015: Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry
of Energy: UNDP/GOM project MYA/92/004: Strengthening Energy Planning
Department and MYA/89/009: Energy Sector Investment and Policy Review.
4.    MYA/86/013 has three components; a gas utilization study, enhanced oil recovery
studies and training program for Myanmar Oil and Gas enterprise. The studies and the
training program were competently carried out. Among its objectives, the gas utilization
study was intended to provide firm estimates of natural gas reserves, both associated and
non-associated, and assess the production over time. The study was completed in July
1991, and partly as a result of this study the French Oil Company Total signed an
exploration/exploitation agreement for the Gulf of Martaban gas fields. The conclusions of
the enhanced oil recovery studies, on the other hand, were not very promising and the
Government has decided instead to focus its intention on the rehabilitation of some old oil
wells. The training took the form of a series of seminars attended by 147 participants.
Some 30 trainees benefited from short term programs overseas, and 7 fellows were



22
enrolled in post graduate diploma courses in Canada, the United States and the United
Kingdom.
5.    The linkage between the project for Petroleum Technical Assistance and Training
and the Energy Sector Investment and Policy Review Study was particularly close, as a
World Bank mission in April/May 1990 prepared aide memoires and fact finding studies
for both projects in parallel. the diffusion of the conclusions of the energy sector and
policy review was undertaken through a symposium held in January 1992, and 200 copies
of the study were provided to various energy related government agencies. The report is
continuing to make a substantial contribution to the government's recent initiatives for the
development of the oil and gas resources. Although an Executing Unit has not yet been set
up in the Energy Planning Department, the value of the study to the government was
repeatedly stressed at our meeting with the Director General of the Energy Planning
Department who referred to the study as his "bible" in reference to the Government's
planning for the future development of the sector, and as a basis for discussion with
foreign investors.
6.    All in all we would rate these two projects as being of high value under both of
their immediate and longer term development objectives in a critical sector of the
economy. For that reason, and because of the close link between the training provided to a
committed group of experts and its continuing use, the sustainability of the projects is very
high.
Unquote.



23
Appendix D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
COMMENTS ON THE PAYAGON GAS RESERVES
1.    Geologically, Payagon area is characterized by draping of younger formations over
old basement highs. The main structures are identified by the seismic surveys. However,
the individual reservoir sands are discontinuous due to their depositional characteristics in
the deltaic sedimentation environment. These sands are generally not clearly delineated in
the seismic data analysis. In the case of Payagon, significant structures identified were A,
B, C, D, E, F and the Hteinkyun area.
GAS RESERVOIRS
2.    In the above mentioned structures, MOGE had identified 'D' and 'A-E' structures
which had gas discoveries at appraisal and were considered promising for commercial
exploitation of the gas reserves, in addition to some contribution from the other structures.
However, within these structures, the sand bodies were discontinuous; with different
reservoir characteristics, limited vertical and aerial extent. In fact, in every structure there
were many 'mini-reservoirs' in various sand bodies with alternating sands and
impermeable shales existing within the distinct sands identified by MOGE as (a) 4660 ft
sand and (b) 5100 ft sand in 'D' structure; (a) 5300 ft sand, (b) 7700 ft sand, (c) 8200 ft
sand (upper), (d) 8200 ft sand (lower) and (e) 8500 ft sand in 'A-E' structures in
sedimentary Miocene reservoir. In addition, MOGE had expected gas deposits in volcanic
sands below 10,000 ft. Similar sands in 'B', 'C' and 'F' structures were considered gas
bearing.
RESERVES
3.    At Appraisal, MOGE was already producing about 30 MMSCFD of gas from
Payagon area, mainly from 'D' structure. The additional development program agreed by
IDA and MOGE focused at producing an additional 35 MMSCFD of gas for supply to
Yangon on a sustained basis.
4.    MOGE estimated 'Proven and Probable' reserves at about 800 bcf Of these, IDA
mission accepted 208 bcf as proven reserves and 629 bcf as probable reserves. The proven
reserves at 208 bcf were considered adequate to supply an additional 35 MMSCFD to
Yangon area. In addition, with further drilling, probable reserves could be converted to
proven reserves (Industry practices show that about 50% of probable generally get
converted to proven, but this is not axiomatic).
5.    Based on the above considerations, IDA agreed with a program of 12 development
wells (assuming all would be producers in Phase I) and 5 appraisal wells for establishing



24
Phase II of Payagon Development in due course. The relative downstream project
components were based on these assumptions of gas supplies.
6.    Out of 16 wells drilled in various structures, however, only 7 wells found gas, and
the others were either dry or encountered water bearing sands. 11 wells were plugged and
abandoned and their equipment was recovered.
7.    Only one well (well no. PYGN-19) was a producer in 'A-E' structures (cumulative
production was 968 MMSCF-abandoned in April 1990). 4 wells (nos. 20, 21, 24 and 27)
produced gas from 'D' structure. Of these, well no.20 was the most prolific producing
3,611 MMSCF. Two wells (nos. 30 and 32) produced from 'B' structure and one well
from Hteinkyun area. It is quite clear from the production history that each of these wells
produced from sand bodies which were discontinuous and were not part of a main
reservoir.
8.    All MOGE reserve calculations assumed reservoir continuity average sand
thickness and uniform reservoir characteristics. These factors were based on few test
results in the earlier discovery wells and should not have been generally applied over the
entire Payagon area. In the course of the project cycle, MOGE downgraded the reserves
as under:
Proven      Probable     Possible     Total
BSCF
October 1, 1986 (basis for SAR)    208      629          ----         837
January 29, 1988                144            9         500          653
The appraisal mission's estimates were obviously highly optimistic as they did not verify
various assumptions made by MOGE, but developed the entire project on these gas supply
assumptions.
9.    During subsequent supervision missions, the reserves and gas producibility became
a major issue. During 1989, IDA suggested and MOGE agreed to a reserves audit by
independent consultants, who determined the reserves as follows:
Initial Gas in Place     Balance Recoverable
BCF                      BCF
Proven             34.5                     9.1
Probable           52.9                    44.0
Possible          166.5                    133.0
Total             253.9                   186.1
The actual production history from Payagon wells has more or less confirmed the
consultants' analysis.



25
10.   An analysis of proven reserve as on the dates indicated yields the following
companson.
Proven Reserves- Estimates & Actual Production
Structure          MOGE estimates    Consultant est.    Actual
in January 1988   in May 1989        Production
Gas in Place/BCF    Gas in Place/BCF    BCF
D                      41.7                33.5         29.5
A-E                    81.0                 0.0*         4.6
B-F                    20.4                 0.0*         6.0
Hteinkyun               1.2                  1.0         0.9
Total                 144.3                34.5         41.0
* Consultants had given 24.6 bcf and 11.0 bcf as probable in 'A-E' and 'B-F'.
As can be seen, the results in 'A-E' structures were most disappointing.
CONCLUSION
11.   Of the total gas production of about 41 bcf, about 30.4 bcf was contributed by 'D'
structure (about 73%), 6 bcf by 'B-F' structure (14.6%) and 4.05 bcf by 'A-E' structure
(about 9.9%) out of the proven reserves of 62 bcf, as currently estimated by MOGE,
which are generally in tune with the Reserve Audit study. 'A-E' structure has been most
disappointing, considering that during appraisal most of the proven reserves plus probable
were assumed to be in 'A-E' structures and next in 'D' structure. On hindsight, it appears
that the appraisal mission should have been more careful in verifying the assumptions
made by MOGE in reserve estimates. It is quite clear that bundling of proven and probable
reserves together for the purpose of developing a capital intensive gas project with major
downstream investment was not correct. It would have been better, if prior to appraisal,
IDA had conducted a reserve evaluation study by independent consultants.
12.   The timely monitoring by IDA missions and steps taken for (a) reserves audit (b)
suspension of all activities on gas transmission and distribution helped in preventing
wasteful expenditure on Payagon gas supply to Yangon.
13.   One significant outcome of a thorough reservoir investigation and monitoring of
test results during supervisions has been that MOGE has become familiar with modem
reservoir engineering and gas industry practices and is currently applying these in the
development of Apyauk gas (50 miles NW of Yangon) field, discovered by Shell in 1991
and under development by MOGE following relinquishment by Shell in September 1993.
The gas supply objectives which could not be achieved from Payagon are expected to be
achieved from Apyauk gas field estimated to produce 120-150 MMSCFD on a sustained
basis.



26
Appendix E
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1480-BA
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNION OF MYANMAR
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
Mr. Darayes Mehta
Acting Chief
Infrastructure operations Division
Department 1 East Asia and Pacific Region
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Darayes Mehta,
We are in receipt of the final draft copy of
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) sent to us vide your
letter dated 12th May 1995, for Gas Utilization and
Development Project which was implemented with the credit
offered by IDA.
We appreciate very much for preparing this ICR by your
esteemed organization and we agree with the comments you
have made in the ICR with regard to the findings, future
operations and key lessons learnt.
We have the same view with you that although this
project failed in contrary to the expectation, the Apyauk
Gas field, discovered by an international oil company and
relinquished on its own had been developed successfully by
using some of the salvaged materials and equipment from the
Payagon Gas field. This had significantly compensated and
contributed to meet the country's domestic gas requirement
in time.
In reviewing your draft ICR, we take the opportunity to
confirm that the salient points of the objectives of this



27
project and the recommendations made by the World Bank, have
been diligently pursued and carried out by M.O.G.E under
close supervision by the Ministry of Energy. This had
resulted in the successful achievement in training of
technical personnel of M.O.G.E. The Technical Assistance
Studies for an improved oil recovery had been carried out
successfully in two oil fields. The training of M.O.G.E.
personnel was successfully completed under a well designed
programme. The transfer of technology had helped in
enhancing the skills of the staff concerned. The Financial
Viability Study of M.O.G.E. was conducted in-house and the
Government of Myanmar had agreed with your esteemed
Association in that gas, oil and petroleum product prices
and also the electricity tariff rates had been revised
significantly in August 1994. These measures have turned
round both M.O.G.E. from a losing to profit making entities.
In conclusion, the Ministry of Energy acknowledged with
thanks the credit offered by the World Bank/IDA for the
Payagon Project in conjunction with Technical Assistance
Programme provided by UNDP. We welcome the continued
interest and support of IDA and UNDP mentioned in the ICR,
for further development of Energy Sector of Myanmar and we
earnestly hope for the support of the World Bank/IDA to
renew its contribution towards efficient development of the
energy sector as it would enhance the economic growth of the
country as Myanmar has now not only adopted and followed the
market oriented economic system but also encourages the
infusion of foreign private investments.
We have enclosed some substitutes to be made in the ICR
for consideration at your end.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
for Deputy Minister
(Soe Myint - Director General)
Enclosures (4) sheets.



28
Implementation Experience and Results
4.  In the development of Payagon field, the drilling component had provided for the drilling of
12 development wells (for Phase 1 production) and five appraisal wells (for appraising additional
reserves to be exploited in a subsequent Phase II). In all, 16 wells were drilled and only six had
gas finds, all of which together with the pre-project producing wells ceased to produce by or before
March 1994. Nevertheless, Payagon's incremental gas production under the project (8 BCF) in the
period FY 1989 to FY 1994 came at a critical time of high international petroleum prices and
paucity of foreign exchange in Myanmar and helped reduce import of petroleum products; diesel
oil in the country.
5.   Although Payagon failed to deliver as expected, MOGE
has developed a gas field (Apyauk (not part of the project)
close to Yangon discovered by an international oil company
(IOC) in 1991, but relinquished by it in September 1993. It
is currently producing 90 MMCFD, more than what Payagon was
expected to produce under the original estimates. Apyauk
has a potential to produce 120-150 MMCFD, when fully
developed. It will significantly contribute to meet the gas
requirement earlier expected to be met from Payagon.
6.   The sector policies advocated by the Bank in its
dialogues with GOM/MOGE have had the beneficial effect of
Myanmar opening its exploration areas to IOCs. Some 20
consortia spent over US$ 500 million and although only four
companies out of the consortia have not pulled out, one of
these group has achieved significant success in developing a
giant offshore gas field (6 TCF of Proven gas) which was
discovered by MOGE in 1980. This field will be developed
primarily for exporting gas to Thailand commencing from 1998
and supplying some gas quantities to meet domestic gas
requirements in Myanmar by year 2000. One group of PSC
company comprised of TEXACO, PREMIER, and Nippon Oil Company
discovered one sizeable gas - condensate field (Yetagun
Field) in Panintharyi offshore Area and further exploration
efforts are taking place.



29
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION PROJECT
COMMENTS ON THE PAYAGON GAS RESERVES
1.    Geologically, Payagon area is characterized by draping of younger formations over
old basement highs. The main structures are identified by the seismic surveys. However,
the individual reservoir sands are discontinuous due to their depositional characteristics in
the deltaic sedimentation environment. These sands are generally not clearly delineated in
the seismic data analysis. In the case of Payagon, significant structures identified were A,
B, C, D, E, F and the Hteinkyun area.
GAS RESERVOIRS
2.    In the above mentioned structures, MOGE had identified 'D' and 'A-E' structures
which had gas discoveries at appraisal and were considered promising for commercial
exploitation of the gas reserves, in addition to some contribution from the other structures.
However, within these structures, the sand bodies were discontinuous; with different
reservoir characteristics, limited vertical and aerial extent. In fact, in every structure there
were many 'mini-reservoirs' in various sand bodies with alternating sands and
impermeable shales existing within the distinct sands identified by MOGE as (a) 4660 ft
sand and (b) 5100 ft sand in 'D' structure; (a) 5300 ft sand, (b) 7700 ft sand, (c) 8200 ft
sand (upper), (d) 8200 ft sand (lower) and (e) 8500 ft sand in 'A-E' structures in
sedimentary Miocene reservoir. In addition, MOGE had expected gas deposits in volcanic
sands below 10,000 ft. Similar sands in 'B', 'C' and 'F' structures were considered gas
bearing.
RESERVES
3.    At Appraisal, MOGE was already producing about 30 MMSCFD of gas from
Payagon area, mainly from 'D' structure. The additional development program agreed by
IDA and MOGE focused at producing an additional 35 MMSCFD of gas for supply to
Yangon on a sustained basis.
4.    MOGE estimated 'Proven and Probable' reserves at about 800 bcf Of these, IDA
mission accepted 208 bcf as proven reserves and 629 bcf as probable reserves. The proven
reserves at 208 bcf were considered adequate to supply an additional 35 MMSCFD to
Yangon area. In addition, with further drilling, probable reserves could be converted to
proven reserves (Industry practices show that about 50% of probable generally get
converted to proven, but this is not axiomatic).
5.    Based on the above considerations, IDA agreed with a program of 12 development
wells (assuming all would be producers in Phase I) and 5 appraisal wells for



30
establishing Phase II of Payagon Development in due course. The relative
downstream project components were based on these assumptions of gas supplies.
6.    Out of 16 wells drilled in various structures, however, only 7 wells found
gas, and the others were either dry or encountered water bearing sands. 11 wells were
plugged and abandoned and their equipment was recovered.
7.    Only one well (well no. PYGN-19) was a producer in 'A-E' structures (cumulative
production was 968 MMSCF-abandoned in April 1990). 4 wells (nos. 20, 21, 24 and 27)
produced gas from 'D' structure. Of these, well no.20 was the most prolific producing
3,611 MMSCF. Two wells (nos. 30 and 32) produced from 'B' structure and one well
from Hteinkyun area. It is quite clear from the production history that each of these
wells produced from sand bodies which were discontinuous and were not part of a main
reservoir.
8.    All MOGE reserve calculations assumed reservoir continuity average sand
thickness and uniform reservoir characteristics. These factors were based on few test
results in the earlier discovery wells and should not have been generally applied over the
entire Payagon area. In the course of the project cycle, MOGE downgraded the reserves
as under:
Proven      Probable     Possible     Total
BSCF
October 1, 1986 (basis for SAR)    208      629         ----         837
January 29, 1988               144            9          500         653
The appraisal mission's estimates were obviously highly optimistic as they did not verify
various assumptions made by MOGE, but developed the entire project on these gas supply
assumptions.
9.    During subsequent supervision missions, the reserves and gas producibility became
a major issue. During 1989, IDA suggested and MOGE agreed to a reserves audit by
independent consultants, who determined the reserves as follows:
Initial Gas in Place     Balance Recoverable
BCF                      BCF
Proven             34.5                     9.1
Probable           52.9                    44.0
Possible          166.5                   133.0
Total             253.9                   186.1
The actual production history from Payagon the wells has more or less
confirmed the consultants' analysis.



31
10.   An analysis of proven reserve as on the dates indicated yields the following
companson.
Proven Reserves- Estimates & Actual Production
Structure         MOGE estimates    Consultant est.     Actual
in January 1988   in May 1989        Production
Gas in Place/BCF    Gas in Place/BCF    BCF
D                      41.7                33.5         29.5
A-E                    81.0                 0.0*         4.6
B-F                    20.4                 0.0*         6.0
Hteinkyun               1.2                  1.0         0.9
Total                 144.3                34.5         41.0
* Consultants had given 24.6 bcf and 11.0 bcf as probable in 'A-E' and 'B-F'.
As can be seen, the results in 'A-E' structures were most disappointing.
CONCLUSION
11.   Of the total gas production of about 41 bcf, about 30.4 bcf was contributed by 'D'
structure (about 73%), 6 bcf by 'B-F' structure (14.6%) and 4.05 bcf by 'A-E' structure
(about 9.9%) out of the proven reserves of 62 bcf, as currently estimated by MOGE,
which are generally in tune with the Reserve Audit study. 'A-E' structure has been most
disappointing, considering that during appraisal most of the proven reserves plus probable
were assumed to be in 'A-E' structures and next in 'D' structure. On hindsight, it appears
that the appraisal mission should have been more careful in verifying the assumptions
made by MOGE in reserve estimates. It is quite clear that bundling of proven and probable
reserves together for the purpose of developing a capital intensive gas project with major
downstream investment was not correct. It would have been better, if prior to appraisal,
IDA had conducted a reserve evaluation study by independent consultants.
12.   The timely monitoring by IDA missions and steps taken for (a) reserves audit (b)
suspension of all activities on gas transmission and distribution helped in preventing
wasteful expenditure on Payagon gas supply to Yangon.
13.   One significant outcome of a thorough reservoir investigation and monitoring of
test results during supervisions has been that MOGE has become familiar with modem
reservoir engineering and gas industry practices and is currently applying these in the
development of Apyauk gas (50 miles NW of Yangon) field, discovered by Shell in 1991
and under development by MOGE following relinquishment by Shell in September 1993.
The gas supply objectives which could not be achieved from Payagon are expected to be
achieved from Apyauk gas field estimated to produce 120-150 MMSCFD on a sustained
basis.



32                                 Appendix F
MYANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1840-BA
_:  - i:Pavagon Gas Field Economic Rate of Retum- All field production
(S Figures in thousands)
FY     Gas Sale Condensate Investment   O&M       Revenue  Revenue  Net Cash
MMCF      000 IG    1991S      1991S       Gas   Condensate   Flow
3.15      0.60
1982___                          13________________ __ _  __per MCF    perIG G__ 38
1982                            138                                      (138)
1983                            748                                      (748)
1984       143                 5488         91       450                (5,129)
1985       291       1711     11577        442       917      1027    (10,075)
1986      3894        846     12699        787     12266       507       (713)
1987      7695        340      7874       1082     24239       204     15,486
1988      6798        174      3793       1411     21415       104    16,316
1989      6482        164     24089       1397     20417        98      (4,971)
1990      7897        170     11886       1616     24875       102    11,474
1991      2957        104      5410       1690      9314        62      2,276
1992      1544         98      1722       1692      4864        59      1,509
1993       985         74      1648       1692      3103        44       (193)
1994       310         20                 1692       975        12       (705)
Total       38995                87074                           ERR=    29.4%
Local costs converted to USS at official exchange rates as in SAR. The economic value of gas is derived
from a mix of border prices for diesel oil and fuel oil; in effect it becomes the equivalent price of crude oil.
This again follows the SAR.   __                          _     -
MANMAR GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILIZATION PROJECT
MY .  : -     . .  -CREDIT 1840-BA
Payagon Gas Field Economic Rate of Return- IDA Project Part Only
(S Figures in thousands)
FY     Gas Sale Condensate Investment   O&M    Economic Econ value Net Cash
MMCF      000 IG                       value of gasCondensate   Flow
S55 1 0   S0.60
per MCF    per IG
1989        84         11     13658       1366       429         7    (14,589
1990      4867        633      7054       2071     24821       380    16,075
1991      1433        186      1988       2270      7307       112      3,161
1992       746         45       166       2287      3803        27      1,377
1993       482         17       166       2303      2457        10         (2
1994       108         10                2303        553         6      (1,745
Total     7719.48    901.88      23033      12600                ERR=    28.4%
LCcal currtnty costs of investment taken at the open market exchange rate of S1=65 kyats.
Fuel displaced by gas was diesel oil, the border price of which ranged around an equivalent
price for.naturaigas of S5.10/MMCF.
All ofthe new Payagon gas during the period FY1994 substituted diesel oil (not a mix ofdiesel oil and f'ucl oil) in power plant, obviating
imporU ofdiesel oil to that extenL Further, the open mnarket exchange rate in that period was USS 1 -65 kyats, and it is but appropriate
that this shadow exchange rate be use.



33
SAR estimates compared with actual results
SAR                  SAR                 Actual
Assumptions           corrected            Results
for omitted pre-
1988 operations
ERR for Phase 1
[High crude price scenario      72.0%                36.6% ]              29.4% whole field
(Low crude price scenario       46.2%                25.3%
Gas-Eqd-uction _MkMCF            397,000              409 000               41,900
Whole field-Phase 1              71.2                109.1                 69.6
IDA Project only within Phase 1  71.2                 71.2                 31.7
.Ecorom_io valugeo$LMM.g(QE
[High crude price scenario       4.35                 4.35 ]               3.15
[Low crude price scenario        2.13                 2.13 ]
Conclusion
Although gas production was 10% of the estimates for the field as a whole, the lower investments
and earlier production from the IDA financed wells (earlier by two years, 1989 in place of 1991 both made a
positive effect on net present value of benefits. An ERR of 29.4% was achieved. A direct comparison of this
figure with the SAR estimate of 46 to 72% is not possible, since the SAR calculations ignored the investments
other costs and benefits during 1982-1987, took into account investments and costs relating to the IDA projec
between 1988 and 2008, but benefits in total including those attributable to investments prior to the IDA
project. The SAR estimates were therefore reworked to include the prior period costs and benefits; in the
result, the adjusted SAR economic rates of return calculate between 25.3% and 36.6% in the two scenarios o
high and low petroleum prices. While the ERR for Payagon field, as a whole at 29.3%, thus was satisfactory
it should be more appropriate to examine if the IDA project- constituting an incremental sub-project- within the
then producing Payagon field yielded a reasonable ERR by itself. In spite of producing about 8 BCF only
out of about 42 BCf that the Payagon field as a whole produced during 1982-1994, the IDA incremental proje
had also a satisfactory ERR at 28.4%. The methodology adopted, however, is different. Primarily, a shadow
exchange rate of US$1=65 kyats* has been used, being more realistic than the official exchange rate of US1=
5.99 kyats currently and slightly higher earlier. Also, the gas from the IDA wells did obviate import of diesel oil
for power generation and so, the value of the gas is determined by the border price of diesel oil.
* Discussed in Myanmar Energy Sector Investment & Policy Review Study- Report No.10394-BA of 3.16.1992
vide.para 32of Executive Summary.






IBRD 19766R
960                                                           _ 
j  tA iv, .;   \       o Mandalay
fMyingyan
Pakokku
* zTUYINGTAUNG
CHALILK  * O'wTETMA\
\        ~    CiTa  ' Ro       HLK?  I
MANN/MINBU  t                                                                                    200
20'                                                      %
HTAUKSHA3IN
Ramree
Island                                             /
|    %*  l0, Nf.r0 -         \tawchi0
*t                            \            C V
MYANMAR                                                                               \
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND                                                                                \
UTILIZATION PROJECT                                                                          Sittang
Sedimentary Basins Area            /   .                     D      T.
Oil Fields                   /                          SIN                                     h
/       AS S/Ail                                 Thaton       
Gas Fields                               Bassein                        RANGOON             |          Myaingale
Proposed Gas Pipeline,                  0                              0Syriam              J
PAYAGON
Existing Gas Pipeline            /Moulmein
Rivers                        /Pyapon-                                                           
1Sa   *fih.    National Capital                                     1ya6o
o     Selected Towns
-  --     International Boundaries
oYe
0              50             100                                            \
Miles'
Kilometers,
0        50        100      150
Th. b.o.donrs- Ion, d-noo-fi-on  nd ony  h   fo
.h.     h, ' ' d. -1      hp      fTth Wrdmfe
ahar, n hi aopdont t,fy o t. ao 0 h.  World Barrk
Gnoup, any ludgn,.nt on th0. f.gai sttu, of ony t.rrFto1y or any               960
*ndo,s.tn.nt or aoccptono. of sooS, bo~odari..96
FEBRUARY 1995.









Repor--t. NCo:    14629
Type- IC .



