RESTRICTED
copyf                        Report No. P-309
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 18, 1963



INTEPNATIONAL DEVELOPNI'DT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOv1iENhDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE SIPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE THIRD HIGHW1AY PROJECT
1.    I submit herewith the followqing report and recommendations on a
proposed development credit from the Association in an amount of $13e5
million, or its equivalent in other currencies, to the Empire of Ethiopia
to help finance a program of road and bridge construction, asphalting,
mechanization of accounting and employment of consultants by the Imperial
Highway Authority (THA).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.    In the fall of 1960 and in the spring of 1961, the Ethiopian Govern-
ment approached the Bank with a number of new loan proposals, and requested
that some of them be accepted as candidates for IDA financing. The two
principal projects which were proposed were a third highway operation
(following up on the Bank loans of 1950 and 1957) and a power project for
Addis Ababa.
3.    In October 1961 the Chairman of IHA and a representative of the
Ministry of Finance visited the Bank to discuss the proposed highway
financing. The Management informed the delegation that it would be pre-
pared to consider this project for purposes of an IDA credit, but that the
power project would appear more appropriate for Bank financing. The
Ethiopian Government subsequently accepted this proposal and an application
for a Bank loan on the power project is at present being prepared in Ethiopia
with the assistance of consulting engineers.
4.    The nature of the new highway credit, and the terms and conditions
thereof, have been the subject of several subsequent discussions. Active
consideration of the project has been delayed by a number of factors such
as the complete turnover in the Board of Commissioners of IHA, serious
difficulties in obtaining adequate local currency financing for the
execution of the project on which the Bank made a loan in 1957, a crisis
which developed in the relations between the Ethiopian Covernment and the
United States Bureau of Public Roads which was responsible for the manage-
ment of IHA, etc.
5.    One of the most recent obstacles to working out the terms of a new
highway project was a dispute between IHA and one of their leading con-
tractors which threatned to halt work on an important part of the project
financed under the Bank's previous loan. We have been followTing this



-2-
controversy closely in the hope of ensuring a settlement which would be
reasonable and satisfactory to both parties. Our latest information is
that such a settlament has been or is about to be concluded.
6.    Formal negotiations began in Washington on January 31, 1963. The
Borrower was represented by the Minister of Public Works and by an
Assistant Minister of Finance, IHA by its General Manager and legal advisere
7.    The proposed credit would be the first by the Association to Ethiopia.
The following Bank loans have been made to Ethiopia:
Year      Project or Purpose                       As of January 31, 1963
Amount
(US$ million equivalent)
1950      Highway Rehabilitation                             5.0
195o      Development Bank                                   2.0
1951      Telecommunications                                 1.5
1957      Highway construction and improvement              15.0
1961      Development Bank                                   2.0
1962      Telecommunications                                 2.9
Total net of cancellations                        28o4
of which has been repaid                         4.1
Total now outstanding                             24.3
Amount sold                   1.6
of which has been repaid    0.9                 0.7
Net amount held by Bank                           23.61/
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
8.    The proposed credit would have the following characteristics:
Borrower:                          Empire of Ethiopia.
Credit Amount:                    The equivalent, in various currencies,
of $13.5 million,
1/ Includes $5.1 million not yet disbursed as of January 31, 1963.



-3-
Purpose:                           To finance the foreign exchange cost
needed for completion of IHA's second
highway project, construction of two
roads (215 km) and six bridges, as-
phalting of 800 km of roads, the pro-
curement of accounting machines and
for contracts with consultants who will
(a) assist in management and staffing
of IHA, (b) review the design and super-
vise construction of the new roads and
(c) make a survey of a proposed road
through the Awash Valley.
Term and Amortization of Credit:   50 years; 80 semi-annual repayments of
the principal: 1/2% of principal amount
to be repaid semi-annually beginning
November 1, 1973 and ending N4ay 1, 1983
and 1-1/2% semi-annually beginning
November 1, 1983 and ending May 1, 201!3.
Service Charge on Credit:          3A4 of 1% per annun on the a-mount wnith-
drawn and outstanding, payable semi-
annually.
PART III  -  LEGAL INSTRh1UHITS
9.    A-ttached are a draft of a Credit Agreement between the Empire of Ethiopia
and the Association (No. 1), a draft of a Project Agreement between IHA and the
Association (No. 2) and the report of the Committee provided for in Article 5,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association (No. 3)0
10.   The proposed Credit Agreement and Project Agreement are substantially
in the form normally used for projects of this kind. Attention is called,
however, to Paragraph 17 below which explains the special responsibilities
which are to be placed in this case upon the consultants to be employed
pursuant to Section 2.C1 of the Project Agreement.   Section 6.01(b) of the
Credit Agreement makes the employment of consulta±ts upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
PART IV - APPRAISAL OF PROPOSED CREDIT
11.   A detailed appraisal of the project (TO-352a) is attached (No. 4).
The Project
12.   IHAts Third Highway Program is a continuation of the Government's program
of road construction and betterment which is aimed at integrating the country
in order to strengthen its economic position and to raise the standard of
living of its people. There are still, and wi]l remain for some time, isolated



-14-
areas in Ethiopia which through lack of communications are barred from
participating in the economic life of the country. The primary objective of
Ethiopia's road program is to provide these areas with an opportunity to
develop their productive capacity; at the same time, improved highwvays bring
reduced transportation charges which are contributing substantially to
stimulating production for the home market and for export.
13.   In the absence of reliable and detailed nationwide statistics, it is
not possible to measure even roughly the extent to which road development has
contributed to the country's GNP, or to express in exact figures the cost-
benefit ratio of investment in roads.  The effect of the highway program thus
far, however, is clearly demonstrated by the increase in registration of
civilian motor vehicles which went up by 62% in the period 1956-1961. Over
the years since road construction and betterment was taken in hand the travel
time needed to cover distances between important centers has been cut to a
fraction of what it was before, This has maaterially reduced the direct cost
of transportation in addition to lowering the amount of capital locked up in
goods in transit and storage.  As a result,trucking charges on the main
arteries have decreased between 50% and 75% in recent years.
14.   The present project consists of completion of the roads included in the
Second Highway Project and the construction of two new roads leading into
agricultural areas and at the same time opening up access to a mining area in
the ni-ghborhood of Lekempti.  It will also provide for asphalt surfacing of
over S00 km of existing roads, and for a survey and feasibility study of a
proposed road through the Awash Valley leading ultimately to the new port of
Assab,, xjhich at present can be reached from Addis Ababa only by a mountainous
and much longer route.
15.   The total cost of the project is estimated at U.S. $23.2 million out of
which U.S. $13.5 million will be in foreign exchange and provided by the pro-
posed Credit. The Government has undertaken to provide from its otwn resources
the equivalent of U.S. $9.7 million in local currency, although it hopes to
obtain a credit from the United Statest AID of approximately U.S. 134 million,
to cover the local currency expenditures on the two roads in the project.
The Ethiopian Government has further accepted the obligation to provide the
amounts required for maintenance and betterment of existing roads, estinated
at the equivalent of U.S. $22 million for a period of 3 years.
Organization
16.   IHA's policies are decided by a Board consisting of the Minister of
Public Works as Chairman and six members representing various government
institutions, including the Planning Committee. Its management has thus far
been entrusted to the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads, under a contractual arrange-
ment between the Ethiopian and United States Governments. For various reasons
the relationship between the Board and M4anagement deteriorated to an extent that
had serious effects on IHA's program.



17.   In October 1962, IHA asked the Bank to consider new arrangements for
management,  Qualified Ethiopian nationals were to be appointed to some of
the managerial positions of IHA and supported by expatriate staff* The
proposed arrangements were approved on the understanding that consulting
engineers were to be employed to assist in the management and staffing, and
to supervise the construction of the two new roads. Satisfactory arrange-
ments have now been worked out, under which a consulting firm will be asked to
supply to the Authority a Deputy General Manager, a Chief Engineer, and a
number of additional technical and administrative personnel. A separate firm
will be employed to survey the Awash Valley Road.
18.   It is satisfying to note that in the future qualified Ethiopians will
play an increasing role in the day-to-day operations of IHA; I am confident
that the new arrangements will shot- a beneficial effect during the period of
construction of the Third Highway Project.
Mbthod of Procurement
19.   The Borrower intends to procure all major items of equipment and supplies
and to arrange contracts on the basis of competitive international bidding.
Economic Situation
20.   An economic report (R-61-111) was circulated to the Executive Directors
on November 14, 1961 in connection with the Bank loan to the Development Bank
of Ethiopia. A fresh review of Ethiopiafs economic situation and prospects
has been awaiting the preparation of a long-term development plan, A state-
ment presenting the Plan is now ready and an economic mission irill go to
Ethiopia about iarch 20.
21.   There have been no major new developments in the economy over the last
few years. The recent governmental change from a federation of Ethiopia and
Eritrea to a unitary state has not had any substantial economic impact.
Ethiopia continues to rely on exports of coffee, hides and skins, cereals
and oilseeds. The drop in price for coffee (about 25% in the last five years
alone) has been largely offset by a rise in output of coffee and of other
exports - mainly hides and skins.  Total exports consequently are about the
same now as the previous peak in 1957 (about U.S. $80 million equivalent a
year). Fiscal and monetary policies continue to be soundly administered on
the whole: taxes have been raised to meet higher expenditures; central bank
claims on the government have not increased over the past seven years;
foreign exchange reserves (U.S. $65 million equivalent at the end of November
1962) are maintained at a level equivalent to around eight months imports.
22.   Although reliable data are not available, there is some indication
that the rate of investment in Ethiopia has increased, if slowly, in recent
years and is running now at around U.S. $40 million equivalent a year (excluding
investment in the subsistence economy in kind). The new Five-Year Plan pro-
posal suggests this figure should be more than doubled and that about U.S. $;150
million of foreign assistance over the five-year period should be secured to



-6-
help finance it. Even though the volume of investment were to be considerably
less than the Plan suggests, with the low level of incomes and savings in
Ethiopia, major reliance would have to be placed on foreign assistance if there
is to be any acceleration of economic growth.
23. External debt on June 30, 1962 was US$56mdllion. There were also about
U.S. $120 million of unutilized and unallocated foreign credits, mostly from
the Soviet bloc countries; these latter credits date from 1959 and little use
has so far been made of them, due largely to the difficulty of finding and
agreeing on acceptable projects. Debt service on the existing debt amounts to
U.S. $7-8 million a year over the next several years or almost 10% of present
export earnings. While this is not an unbearable burden, it would appear wise
to keep it from growing too fast; the prospects for Ethiopiafs main crop, coffee,
are not too promising; the rate of economic development has been slow and there
are no present indications of an immediate rapid acceleration. It should also
be noted that per capita incomes at around U.S. $h0 per year are very low, and
that the Ethiopian Government makes a determined effort to make the best use of
its limited resources. It would therefore seem appropriate to introduce some
blend of IDA credits into the Bankts lending program in Ethiopia.
PART V - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24,   I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOHM1,2IDATIONS
25.   I recommend that the Association make available a development credit to
the Empire of Ethiopia in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
U.S. $13.5 million for a total term of 50 years with a service charge of 3/4
of 1% per annum and on such other terms as are specified in the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and that the Executive Directors adopt a resolution to
that effect in the form attached (No. 5).
George D. W4oods
President
Washington D.C.
February 18, 1963



