X2X0py~~~~C R g- 3
FILETCOPY
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO- 3 52a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROGRAM
ETHIOPIA
February 14, 1963
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I Eth $        = US $0. 40
Eth $1 million = US $400, 000
US $1 million  = Eth $2, 500, 000



ETHIOPIA
Table of Contents
Pages
SUTMARY                                                  i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION
II.   BACKGROUND                                              2- 6
A. General                                                 2
B.  Bank's First Highway Loan                              2
C.  Bankts Second Highway Loan                             3
D.  Imperial Highway Authority                             4
E.  Pavement of Existing -Iiighways                        5
F.  Motor Vehicle Size and Weight Regulations              6
III.   THE PROJECT                                             6 - 10
A. Description                                             6
B. Cost Estimates                                          8
C.  Planned Financing of the Project                       9
D. Execution of the Project                               10
IV.   ECONOOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                10 - 17
A. General                                                10
B. The Project Roads                                     13
C. The Pavement Program                                  16
V.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECONMENDATIONS                           17
TABLES
1  Estimated Total Project Costs
2.  Planned Three-Year Asphalt Paving Program
3. IHA Source of Funds for Expenditure (1957-62)
4.  Motor Vehicle Registration by Class
5.  IHA's Total Expenditures Over Next Three Years
MAP - Ethiopia Road Project



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHIWAY PROGRA4
SUIO4ARY
i.        The Ethiopian Government has requested a credit of US$13.5 million
equivalent from the International Development Association. Of this sum,
US$1.5 million would be used to meet the foreign exchange portion of a short-
fall in funds needed to complete the Second Highwray Program (Bank Loan 166-ET)
and US$12.0 equivalent would be used to pay the foreign exchange cost of a
continuing program of road development.
ii.       The project consists of:
a)  The construction of a 110 km road between Lekempti and Ghimbi;
a 104 Icn road between Agaro and Bedelle; and six small bridges
in the road section betwJeen Bedelle and Gore.  (See Map.)
b)  The asphalt surfacing of 800 Im of existing roads.
c)  The mechanization of the Imperial Highway Authority's accounting
system. (IHA)
d) The employment of consultants to advise on and assist in the
management of the Imperial Highway Authority, to help the
Authority recruit qualified staff, and to review the designs
and specifications of the roads to be constructed under (a)
above and to supervise their construction.
e) The employment of a consulting firm to carry out a preliminary
engineering survey and feasibility study of a possible future
road through Awash Valley.
iii.      Inadequacies in the initial design of the works, persistent admin-
istrative complications and unforeseen natural difficulties have increased the
estimated cost and delayed the completion of the Second Highway Program.  The
eventual foreign exchange cost will exceed the original estimate by about
US$1.5 million equivalent.
iv.       Inclusive of the Second Highwiay Program roads to be completed, the
new roads and bridges to be built, the sections to be asphalted, and the con-
sultants to be retained, the project would cost an estimated US$23.2 million
equivalent in all.  The IDA credit US$13.5 million equivalent, would pay for
the full foreign exchange costs. The Government would pay the local currency
costs amounting to US$9.7 million equivalent, out of its budgetary resources,
as a contribution to which it hopes to receive a loan of $4.0 million from
AID. In addition, the Government would continue to provide IHA with the funds
it needs for routine road maintenance and betterment wiorks - now estimated
at, but not necessarily limited to, US$25 million equivalent - over the next
three years.



- Ai -
v.        The IHA ipill be responsible for the ultimate execution of all parts
of the project.  It wJill shortly undergo,with the help of foreign consultants,
a complete managerial reorganization which should improve its efficiency in
the planning, construction and maintenance of roads. In addition to their
advisory duties, these consultants would help recruit senior staff and engi-
neers to fill vacancies created by the forthcoming withdrawal of the U.S.
Bureau of Public Roads employees wrho now manage the affairs of the IHA. The
same consultants wxould be retained to supervise the construction of the new
roads to be built as part of the project.
vi.       The construction of new roads will be carried out by contractors.
The contracts uill be awarded through international competitive bidding by
prequalified firms. Competent international contractors are building part of
the Second Highwray Program roads which remain to be completed.  However, the
asphalt surfacing of 800 Ian will be done in the first instance, by the IIA's
oun forces.
vii.      The roads (gravel surfaced) and the minor bridges are to be built
to simple design standards which are adequate for the expected traffic loads.
Field surveys have been made and detailed designs have been prepared.  The
cost estimates which are based on recent experience under the Second Highwray
Program are realistic.
viii.     The financing of the local currency costs is primarily the respon-
sibility of the Ethiopian Government and adequate assurances to that effect
have been obtained during the credit negotiations. Howiever, to avoid
budgeting difficulties which have hampered IHA in the past to recur, IDA and
the Government have agreed on specific arrangements to avert therm.
ix.       The project is part of a continuing road development program started
in 1950-51, which aims to integrate the country into a more effective social
and administrative unit, to increase the output and productivity of Ethiopian
agriculture, industry and trade, and to reduce the heavy burden of transport
charges on the economy. Previous Bank loans have financed part of the foreign
costs of the program.
x*        Road rehabilitation, construction and improvement since 1950 has
contributed significantly to the development of the Ethiopian economy. Home
marlcet production, as well as production for export, hlas been stimulated.
Producers in certain districts reached by new roads have begun to shift from
subsistence to cash crop agriculture. Transport charges have been reduced to
a fraction of their former level. Inter-regional travel for official business
and personal reasons has been facilitated.
xi.       The twqo new roads and the new bridge constructions promise to yield
adequate total economic benefits to the economy of Ethiopia to justify their
costs.



xii.      Both the asphalt surfacing program and the procurement of accounting
machinery are urgently needed and economically justified.  The Ethiopian
Government is thinking of building a road through the Awash Valley.  This road,
the construction costs of' which would be considerable, could be of significant
importance to the economy of Ethiopia. For this reason provision is made in
the project for a survey by consultants.
xiii.     An improved and enlarged highway system interconnecting more regions
and reducing transport costs further is one of the basic conditions for agri-
cultural development. However, better roads by themselves are incapable of
stimulating production and trade beyond narrow limits. If full use is to be
made of the country's productive resources, there must be Government action
concurrently with road building to improve and modernize agricultural organi-
zation and techniques; tc educate farmers and improve their health; and to
provide agricultural extension services and agricultural credit facilities.
The Government is fully aware of these limiting factors to agricultural
development as witnessed by the recently published 5-Year Development Plan.
The Bank plans to study and review the objectives of the plan in the near
future. In the meantime, specific correctives which the Government has in mind
for the service areas of the new roads have been discussed during the credit
negotiations.
xiv.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of up to US$l13.5 million
equivalent.



APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROGRA1II
ETHIOPIA
I. INTIRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Ethiopia has approached the International Deve'l-
opment Association for a development credit of US$13.5 million equivalent to
finance the construction and improvement of roads.  Of this sum, USt1.5 million
equivalent would be used to malce good a shortfall in foreign funds necessary
to complete the road construction program being financed by Bank Loan 166-ET.
The remaining US$12.0 million equivalent would be used to pay the foreign
exchange costs involved in:
a) The construction of a 110 km road between Lekempti
and Ghimbi; a 104 km road between Agaro and Bedelle;
and six small bridges in the road section between
Bedelle and Gore. (See Map.)
b) The asphalt surfacing of 800 km of existing roads.
c) The mechanization of the Imperial Highway Authority's
accounting system.
d) The employment of foreign consultants to advise on and
assist in the management of the Imperial Highway Authority,
to assist in the recruitment of qualified staff, and
to review the designs and specifications of the roads to
be constructed under (a) above and to supervise their
construction.
e) The employment of a consulting firm to carry out a preli-
minary engineering survey and feasibility study of a
possible future road through Awash Valley.
2.        This project appraisal is based on:
a) Preliminary surveys of the Lekempti-Ghimbi and Agaro-
Bedelle-Gore routes made in 1959-60 by Bolton, Hennessey
and Partners, consultants;
b) A final field survey of the routes made by IHJk;
c) Engineering plans and specifications for their construc-
tion prepared by IHA; and
d) Information obtained by Bank missions which visited
Ethiopia in March/April and September 1961 and May/June
1962 to examine the progress and problems of the road
development program, and on final information received
from the Ethiopian Delegation during credit negotiations
in Washington in February 1963.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
3.        W^lhen the occupation of Ethiopia and Eritrea ended in 19h0, there
was a network of 4O000 km of main roads in Ethiopia. This network had been
hurriedly built in less than 5 years to standards which often did not make
due allowance for local climatic, soil, terrain and hydrology conditions.
Most roads were gravel surfaced but some of the links between important
administrative centers were asphalt surfaced. For the 10 years after the
Ethiopian Government took over the responsibility for the roads, their
maintenance and repair was neglected. By 1950, many sections were almost
impassable during the 5-month rainy season, Extensive sections had broken
down, washed out or lost their asphalt surfacing.
B. Bank's First Highway I,oan
L.        In September 1950 the Bank made a loan of US$5 million equivalent
(Loan 31-ET ) for the reconstruction, repair and maintenance of the most
important roads.
5.        As a loan condition, the Government established a semi-autonomous
agency -- the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA) -- to develop and maintain
the counury's roads, IHA is governed by a Board of Commissioners consisting
of the Minister of Public Works and Communications, as Chairman; representatives
of the various Ministries interested in the finance and use of the roads; and
an expatriate professional Director,
o6        Since its establishment, the senior management and engineering staff
of the IHA, including the Director, has been provided by the U.S. Bureau of
Public Roads (BPR) under a management contract between the Governments of
Ethiopia and the United States. This agreement, although still operative,
will be terminated as of May 10, 1963; the Ethiopian Government has recently
given notice of its intention to end the contr~'.ct. (Sce pEre. 18-19 below).
7.        The loan, which was disbursed over four years, was used mainly to
import the equipment, machinery and spare parts necessary for the rehabili-
tation and maintenance of the most important roads. To carry out these tasks
the IHA had to create a construction division and also a maintenance organi-
zation to keep the rehabilitated roads in good repair and to prevent the
further deterioration of the other roads. With the federation of Eritrea
with Ethiopia in 1953, a further 800 km of main roads were added to the net-
work maintained by the IHA.
8.        In the interval between this first highway loan and the Bank's second
loan (166-ET) in 1957, the Ethiopian Government financed from its own resources,
the betterment of other roads, as well as the maintenance of the rehabilitated
roads. By 1957 some 3,500 km of main roads had been rebuilt to satisfactory
standards and about 4,300 km., inclusive of the Eritrean roads, were under
routine maintenance.



- 3-
C. Bank's Second Highway Loan
90        In June 1957, the Bank loaned the Ethiopian Government US)15 million
equivalent (Loan 166-ET). The purpose of this loan was to finance the foreign
exchange costs of the construction of a further 850 km of important new high-
ways; the engineering costs of the survey and design of 1,000 km of future
roads; and the aerial mapping of the regions through which the roads were to
pass.
10.       The aerial photographic survey was carried out by a specialist firm
and the ground survey by consulting engineers. Aerial maps were made of 16,000
square miles alongside the roads included in the loan project and 70,000 square
miles in regions considered to have economic potentialities which might justify
future roads. As a result of the ground survey, center lines were plotted on
contour maps for 1,800 km of proposed roads.   Tentative alignments were chosen
and rough preliminary cost estimates were made. However, disagreement between
the consultants and the IHA over the choice of suitable design standards led
the IHA to revise most of the consultants' survey.
11.       Construction under the Second Highway Program was delayed for a
number of reasons. Originally, foreign contractors had been invited to bid
for a substantial part of the road program on a "cost-plus-fixed-feeu" basis,
which would have made it possible to start work without waiting for complete
engineering designs for the total length of the roads. Delays by the Board
of IHA in awarding contracts on that basis, followed by a complete change in
the Board's membership in 1958, brought a revision of the contract basis from
cost-plus fees to unit prices and a change in part of the program. The new
Doard felt too much emphasis had been placed on opening up the Jimma coffee
area.  They proposed improving the tracks along Lake Tana so as to corrirlete
a through connection between Addis Ababa and Asmara via Burie-Bahar Dar-Gondar
(see Hap).  After IHh management assured the Board that some of the new roads
could be built more cheaply by the IHA's own forces, the total length of road
construction in the program was increased from 850 to 900 km, of which 310 km
were given to foreign contractors and the balance to be built by IHA's own
forces. Some secondary roads around Debra Berhan were included also as part
of an operators' training program.
12.       Progress in the execution of the Second Highway Program has been
hampered by financial disputes between the IHA and the Ministry of Finance
which reached a climax during the past financial year (July 7, 1961 - July 6,
1962: Amharic Year 195h).  For that year the IHA's Board requested Eth$19.2
million as the minimum necessary to keep its organization in full operation.
A budgetary allocation of only Eth$13.0 million was gazetted. This sum was
later supplemented by a contribution of Eth-43.5 million under U.S.P.A. 1151
(Cotton). Only during the Bank-mission visit to Ethiopia in May 1962 was
a satisfactory settlement made of the budgetary requirements and a definite
schedule of payments devised.



13.       The consequences of last year's delayed budgetary allocation and
unsatisfactory payment procedures were slow progress of the bettermient jobs
being constructed by the IRA's own forces and a decrease in maintenance
operations.  The improved financial position reached towards the end of the
fiscal year following the mission's visit, however, has enabled the IHA to
place orders for urgently needed spare parts and to meet all its outstanding
bills. According to the I1inistry of Finance, the I11A did not present its
budgetary requirement for the current year (1962-63) in time nor in the
prescribed manner. Consequently, to keep within the parliamentary timetable,
an amount of Eth;'20 million for IHA's requirements was inserted in the 1latio-
nal Budget submitted to the Council of Ministers. After much discussion and
revision of individual items in the budget, the Bank agreed that Eth$20
million should be satisfactory for this year. There is a danger, howzever,
that budgetary difficulties in future years may recur. Therefore, during
credit negotiations, assurances have been obtained that (i) the IHA and the
M-inistry of Finance will reach timely agreements on the procedures, amounts
and proper balance of the M'A's future budgets, and (ii) that satisfactory
arrangements are made by the Miristry of Finance to ensure an adequate supply
of current funds to the IHA.
1h.       The local currency difficulties encountered by the IHA have slowed
do-rn the progress of betterment works being carried out by their own forces.
This, together with an increased volume of work placed on the four foreign
contractors as a result of planning and supervisory defects and disputes, will
delay ccmpletion of the Second HighwJay Program until the middle of 1961h.
Furthermore, the completion of an important road was delayed substantially
by a dispute over an arbitration atw-ard.
D. The Imperial Highwjay Authority
15.       The !HA is responsible for the planning, survey and design, con-
struction and supervision of work on neTwx roads, and for the reconstruction,
improvement and routine maintenance of existing roads. Since its creation
in 1950, it has recruited and trained its present force of some 7,000 em-
ployees. A notable achievement has been the successful training of Ethio-
pians not only as equipment operators but also as clerical and engineering
staff.
16.       There are certain wzeaknesses in the IHA's present administrative
structure and operating procedures of which its management is fully aware.
It is overstaffed in some sections, particularly with unslkilled laborers,
but as a matter of social policy the Board is reluctant to sanction a reduc-
tion in the surplus categories. Much more significant, however, is the
understaffing of higher positions. The supervisory difficulties encountered
during the present program, which in one case led to the International Board
of Arbitration to settle a dispute between the IHA and a contractor, are
mainly attributable to shortages of competent engineers to supervise the
field works.  The Planning and Design Division is also harmipered by a shortage
of senior staff, and there are too few teams in the field surveying new
roads adequately ahead of construction.



- 5 -
17.       The shortage of competent engineers is partly due to the Board's
past reluctance to recruit foreign engineers and partly to the difficulties
encountered by the Bureau of Public Roads, faced with a world buyer's market
for engineers, in finding the right men to serve in Ethiopia.
18.       Under the management contract between the Ethiopian and U.S. Govern-
ment, effective day-to-day conduct of IRA Board's policy was carried out by
the BPR-supplied managerial staff. Unfortunately, the management of IHA was
unable to inspire the full confidence of its Board or of the Ministry of Fi-
nance, and as explained in para. 6, the contract with BPR is expiring on May
10, 1963. The time has come to give the Ethiopians a greater part in the IHA's
management and the Association and IHA have agreed to fill the vacancies created
by the departure of BPR personnel by Ethiopian nationals as far as available
and by foreign recruits. Under the new setup, the Director and Administrative
Manager will be chosen from qualified Ethiopians who would be assisted by for-
eign experts. The post of Chief Engineer will be reserved for an expatriate
until such time as a competent Ethiopian engineer is able to take over.
19.       A foreign consulting firm will be retained to provide the Chief-
Engineer and the Deputy Director and Deputy Administrative ManagerO The same
consulting firm will also help to fill the other vacant positions, (about 13)
created by the departure of the BPR personnel, either from the consultant's
own staff or by hiring individuals. It is expected that the consultant's per-
sonnel will gradually phase-out over a three-year period and be replaced by
Ethiopians or expatriates.
20.       The IHA now has about 5,000 km of roads under routine maintenance.
Despite the past financial and administrative problems, the roads are well
maintained. Annual maintenance costs, however, are high mainly because of
the use of old equipment and the fact that maintenance frequently involves
minor betterments.  New equipment under a DLF (AID) loan of U%2.7 million
is now being received. This should contribute to more efficiency and lower
maintenance costs per km in the future. The planned internal reorganization
of the Authority should improve efficiency by allowing the Maintenance Division
to concentrate on routine maintenance.
E. Pavement of the Existing Highways
210       Of the 5,000 km of roads for which the IRA is now responsible, only
1,500 km or 32% are asphalt surfaced. The remainder are gravel or earth sur-
faced. The asphalted roads are concentrated in Eritrea and in the vicinity of
Addis Ababa. Sections of the main trunk route between Addis and the port of
Assab are also paved.  All new roads being built under the Second Highway Pro-
gram are gravel surfaced.



- 6 -
22.       Over the years the IHA has undertaken modest paving programs but
has been hampered by the shortage of funds. However, with growing traffic
volumes, heavier vehicle loads and greater speeds, the paving of more road
sections ought to be carried out. The modest provision of a "single surface
treatment" to these sections would improve vehicle efficiency, reduce vehicle
operating costs and decrease road maintenance expenditures.
F.  Motor Vehicle Size and Weight Regulations
23.       As of October 31, 1962, a law was enacted to control the loads, axle
weights and dimensions of road transport vehicles. IHA has been empowered to
organize the actual control in the field and is already taking the necessary
steps to do so, including the cooperation with the existing police forces to
enforce the law.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
2h4       The project consists of:
a) The construction of a 110 km road between Lekempti
and Ghimbi; a 104 km road between Agaro and Bedelle;
and six small bridges in the road section between
Bedelle and Gore. (See Map.)
b) The asphalt surfacing of 800 km of existing roads.
c) The mechanization of the Imperial Highway Authority's
accounting system.
d)  The emiployment of foreign consultants to advise on
and assist in the management of the Imperial High-
way Authority, to assist in the recruitment of
qualified staff, and to review the designs and
specifications of the roads to be constructed under
(a) above and supervise their construction.
e) The employment of a consulting firm to carry out
a preliminary engineering survey and feasibility
study of a possible future road through the Ahwas
Valley.



- 7 -
25.       The new 110 km road between Lekempti-Ghimbi would be a continuation
of the 350 km highway from Addis Ababa-Lekempti, which was reconstructed with
Bank funds during the First Highway Program. It is a further link in the
important future road connection eastwards from Ghimbi to Gambela, near the
Sudan border. Other than for a 60 km section crossing the Didessa River
valley, a savanna with no agricultural potential, it passes through open
rolling country.
26.       The Agaro-Bedelle road (104 km) is a continuation of the Jimma-Agaro
road which is now being constructed under the Second Highway Program. It
opens up valuable agricultural areas and is part of the road connection to be
completed at a later stage to the important coffee growing area around Gore.
27.       Because the engineering survey and design of the Bedelle-Gore section
will not be ready for some time, the road works have been excluded from the
Third Highway Program. However, in order to facilitate road transportation
between these two towns, the construction of six bridges crossing the main
rivers has been included. During the rainy season the only sure confmmunication
to Gore is by air,
28.       To meet the needs of increasing traffic volumes on some of the
existing roads, a three-year asphalt surfacing program is also included as
part of the Projecq. A tentative list of the roads to be surfaced is given
in Table 2.
29.       The Government is considering the construction of a road through the
Ahwas Valley between Ahwas and Tendaho. The reasons for the Government's
interest are primarily, the potentialities of the agricultural development in
the Valley. A road would be required in this event to connect the area with
Addis, where there are local industries and a market for foodstuffs, and with
Assab from which produce could be exported. Furthermore, the completion of the
new port at Assab is expected to divert freight for Addis and the interior from
the port of Djibou-ti. This freight which is now hauled by rail could only be
carried inland from Assab by road transport. As a final consideration, the
natural location of a road between Addis and Assab is through the valley. This
would not only be Fmuch shorter than the present route via Combolchia, but also
avoid three difficult mountain crossings.
30.       In view of the potential importance of this 430 km road and the large
investment it would necessitate--tentatively estimated at US4$l5-20 million
equivalent--consultants are to be employed as part of the project. Their func-
tion would be to make a preliminary engineering survey and feasibility study to
assess the feasibility of the proposed road.
31.       To carry out the Third Highway Program efficiently, the IHA intends
to award the new road construction to foreign contractors. The six small
bridges on the Bedelle-Gore section would be constructed by local forces. As
explained above (para. 16) some of the delays and problems involved in the
Second Highway Program resulted from a shortage of supervisory engineers in
the field. The withdrawal of the present BPR engineering staff necessitates
a satisfactory alternative solution to the problem of supervising the contract
work. Therefore, the project provides for the employment of consultants.



-8-
They would also review and if necessary revise the existing contract documents
to make them accord better with modern practice; this would help to avoid
disputes with contractors such as have occured in the past, over the inter-
pretation of the contract forms and the procedures of construction;   They
would also be expected to ensure that the technical specifications employed
reflect a better and more realistic use of the local materials actually
available in the field.
32.       As also explained above (para. 19) the IHA will be in need of expert
advice on its future management, organization and staffing as a result of the
termination of the BPR contract. The project, therefore, provides for the
employment of such foreign advisors for , maximum of three years.
33.       The IHA now uses manual accounting procedures which do not permit
the timely and effective control of expenditures for work done. The provision
and installation of suitable accounting machinery and the training of operators
has been included, therefore, as part of the project.
3h.       The design standards for the new gravel surface roads, which are
the same as for those being constructed by contractors under the Second High-
way Program, are realistic and suitable for the expected traffic.
B. Cost Estimates
35.       The project would cost an estimated total of Eth$58,0 million (see
Table 1 for details), or the equivalent of US23,0O million, as follows:
Total Cost   Foreign Cost
Eth'$-million  USV:' mill.eqaiv.
1.  (a)  Construction of 21L km of new road        26.30         6.85
(b)  Construction of six new bridges           1,20         0.25
2.  Asphalting of 800 km of present road          11.70          1.50
3. Purchase of accounting equipment                0.70         0.25
4.  Management consultants and supervision
of new construction by consultants             2.70           1.00
5. Ahwas Valley road survey by consultants         2.50          075
Contingencies (about 15%)                      6.90         l1hO
Third Highway Program Total                   52.00         12.00
Cost of remaining contract work on
Second Highway Program                         6e0o           1.50
GRAND TOTAL         58.00         13.50



- 9 -
36.       The cost estimates for the new roads and for the bridge construction
are reasonable. The locations of the roads were determined by consultants some
years ago from an aerial survey. They were later fully surveyed in the field
by the IHA which ran center lines, took cross sections and comrputed quantities.
The quantities which underlie the cost estimates seem accurate and are derived
from detailed designs and drawings with full particulars of the alignment and
structures.  The uilit prices applied to the quantities, reflect recent experi-
ence under existing contracts. A 15% contingency allowance, therefore, seenis
adequate.
37.       The estimate of the foreign exchange component is based on experience
in the Second Highway Program. Analysis of the work accomplished to date shows
that 65% of the total cost of road construction and 50% of the cost of bridge
construction may be regarded reasonably as the foreign exchange costs involved
in contract works,
38.       The estimate for the management consultants include not only the costs
of the top experts, but also those of engineers and technicians urgently needed
as interim replacements of BPR personnel.
39.       A total expenditure for foreign consultants and-experts of EthM5.2
million (before contingencies), of which the foreign exchange to be financed
by IDA would be US' .75 million, may seem large at first sight. However, they
can be considered reasonable, in view of thescope, complexity and duration of
the services involved; the need to ensure the satisfactory completion of the
Bank-financed Second Highway Program; and the necessity to maintain the IHA
as a functioning organization and improve its efficiency.
4o.       As mentioned earlier, part of the Second Highway Program is under
construction by foreign contractors. The Bank is financing the foreign ex-
change cost of four road contracts. Because the original designs were in-
adequately prepared by the IHA and because of a number of serious unforeseen
natural difficulties (slides, difficult soils, etcJ), the final cost will ex-
ceed the original estimates. These cost increases mean that there wfill be a
shortfall of foreign currency estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent under
Loan 166-ET. It is proposed that this amount be taken up as part of the IDA
credit requested so that the works can be promptly completed.
C. Planned Financing of the Project
h1.       The total cost of the project would be US%23.2 million equivalent.
Of this, the Government will cover USM13.5 million from an IDA credit : the
balance would be provided by the Government from its own budgetary resources,
to which the equivalent of Us$4.o million may be contributed by a USAID loan.
42.       In addition to the total expenditure of US,23.2 million on the pro-
ject over some three years, the InA would spend concurrently some US$,8 million
equivalent for routine road maintenance and US$10 million on betterment works
executed by its own forces. All these latter funds would come from the Govern-
ment's resources. These planned future expenditures may be compared with those
since the establishment of IHA as in Table 3. (See also Table Annex 5)



- 10 -
D, Execution of the Project
43.       The IHA will be responsible for the execution of the project, but the
new road construction will be carried out by pre-qualified contractors under
unit-price contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
As explained above, to ensure satisfactory performance consultants will be en-
gaged for a final re-appraisal of the technical specifications and preparation
of contract documents as well as the field supervision of the work.
44.       The asphalt program will be executed, in the first instance, by the
IRA's own forces after the purchase of the necessary materials and equipment.
The possibility of giving out part of the work on contract should it appear the
program was lagging, would be subject to later discussion between IDA and IHA.
45.       The survey of the Ahwas Valley road will be urdertaken by an inter-
national consulting firm. The terms of reference and the choice of the firm
would be subject to agreement between IDA and IHAo
46.       The proposed managerial reorganization and the employment of consul-
tants should ensure satisfactory execution of the project to good standards
within the three-year period estimated for its completion.
IV, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
47.       By building, rehabilitating and surfacing its roads, the Government is
trying, first, to integrate the country into a more effective economic, social
and administrative unit; secondly, to increase the output and productivity of
agriculture, manufacturing and distribution; thirdly, to bring areas of subsis-
tezice agriculture into the money economy and to open fertile but uncultivated
areas to settlement; fourthly, to reduce the burden of transport costs on pro-
ducers and consumers; and finally, to give Ethiopian producers better, cheaper
access to markets at home and abroad.  In short, the Government wishes to use
road development to raise standards of living and to strengthen the country's
economic position.
48.       The previous Bank-financed highway programs have contributed signifi-
cantly to the realization of these objectives. The rehabilitated and expanded
road system has induced a shift from subsistence agriculture to cash crop agri-
culture in certain regions and, thereby, stimulated inter-regional and farm-to-
market trade. It has opened important new areas for the production of coffee,
the main export crop, and of food grains for home markets. It has greatly re-
duced truck and bus transport costs0 It has made it possible, for the first
time, for large numbers of Ethiopians to make business and personal trips within
their own country, and it has extended the reach and increased the efficacy of
governmental administration.
49.       From the existing data it is not possible to measure, even roughly,
the extent to which road development has stimulated the production and marketing
of particular commodities. There are no firm figures by which to assess the in-
creased amounts of food grains, pulses, oilseeds, fruit and vegetables trucked
into Addis Ababa, Dessie Diredawa, Gondar and other towns, or the greater volumes
of locally manufactured and imported goods and petroleum Droducts trucked into
the interior, Annual exports of Ethiopian coffee, hides and skins, and oilseeds
have fluctuated widely for reasons unrelated to inland transport, e.g. tempcrary
shortages and gluts in wor.ld markets, the negotiation or modification of trade
agreements, the closure and re-opening of the Suez Canal, etc,



55.       Nevertheless, there is sufficient evidence to indicate that pro-
duction and trade, particularly for the home market, has increased in direct
response to road rehabilitation and new construction of the past ten years,
and is continuing to grow. Many more trucks and buses moved over each
of the main roads in 1961 than in 1953. Average daily traffic increased in
the range 50-125% on different sections of the trunk road to Assab port along
which trucks carry much of Ethiopiats exports of coffee, hides and skins,
pulses, and oilseeds and bring back much of her imports of gasoline, kerosene,
cotton cloth and general goods.  Average daily traffic has multiplied two to
five times over the last 5 years on each of the main roads to Addis along which
trucks carry grain and other goods, materials for its local industries, and
produce to be cleaned, graded and stored prior to export, and along which they
carry back to the interior textiles, shoes and other manufactures from the
growing industriis of Addis, petroloum products and other imported goods.
56.       The volume and growth of road traffic may be assessed approximately
from the motor vehicle registration figures and IHA traffic counts. These
figures, although significant, understate the true volume and growth of traffic
in that they do not allow for a predominance of big, heavily loaded trucks,
nor for their increa.sed average size and load, nor for the advent of buses
on roads wlere the only passenrer trcnsnor- used to be Jr jeens or oaen
trucks.
57.       About 24,100 civilian motor vehicles were operating on Ethiopiats
roads in early 1961.  (See Table 4 .)   Of these, 4,300 were trucks, 4,200
were jeep type pick-ups, 15,200 were passenger cars and 400 were large and
small buses. The number of trucks (ignoring size changes) increased 25-30%
in 5 years up to 1961; the numbers of buses (without allowance for seating
capacity) and pick-ups have increased several fold.
58.       According to IHA traffic counts, which do not distinguish type,
size, or load of vehicles, the average daily number of vehicles on important
sections of the road network increased between 1953 and 1961 as follows:
Average daily number of vehicles
during harvest and/or export season
Road Sections                             1953                         1961
Addis-Assab (860 km)
Addis-Combolcia                        93                            135
Combolcia-Battie                       46                            100
Battie-Assab                            34                            66
Addis-Jimma (335 km)                    84                           450
Addis-Lekempti (331 km)                72                            297
Addis-Debre Marcos (305 kIn)           47                             98 a)
Addis-Dilla (368 km)
Moggio-Shashamana                      61                            138
11 km north of Shashamana              51                            133
Wondo-Dilla                             40                            44
Addis-Nazareth (99 km)                 42                            252
Nazareth-Assela (76 km)                53                            150
a) Road improved but not rebuilt to main road standards.



- 12 -
59.       Journeys are now made in a fraction of the time they previously re-
quired.  Some 10 years ago, when the Assab road could be used only in the dry
season, it took about two weeks to drive a truck the entire 860 km from Addis
to the port,  Today, big trucks and trailers make the same trip in 2-3 days
during all seasons.  The 335 km run from Addis to Jimma which used to be a 2-3
week trip can now be made in 8-10 hoars. The 330 km run from Addis to Lekempti
which used to be a 7-day trip, can now be made in 7-8 hours,   These savings in
vehicle time have materially reduced the real cost of road transport, because
more transport can now be accomplished by the same vehicle and crew. They
also have reduced the a-mount of capital loc!ked up in goods in transit and in
warehouses and storage facilities.
60o.      Apart from savings of vehicle time, the improved road surfaces have
reduced direct vehicle operating costs materially. There has been less wear
and tear on axles, springs and tires; lower consumption of fuel and lubricants;
reduced wastage and spoilage of goods; fewer losses through breakdowns and
accidents. IJhile these rea.l economies cannot be definitely assessed, they are
known to be large.
613       As a result of these savings in vehicle time and the reduction in
vehicle operating costs truck transport charges on the main roads have fallen
greatly. According to !FIA investigations summarized below, trucking charges
for important hauls have decreased 50-75% in the past 10 years. If proper
allowance could be made for the rises in prices and wages in the interim the
true reductions might well be of the order of 75-9co.
Truck Transport Tariffs    Equivalent TKI Charg'e
(Eth<> per ton)               (Eth¢)
Haul                              1953           1961       1953         1961
Addis-Assab (860 km)              87.50          49o00      10.1          3G4
Addis-Jimma (335 km)             45,00           20;00     13.5          6.o
Addis-Lekempti (331 km)          67-50           12-50      20.4          3.8
Addis-Debre Marcos (305 km)     100000           22e50      32.8          7.3
Addis-Dilla (368 kmn)            56o00           12-50      15.3          3.5
Addis-Nazareth (99 km)           40.00            8.00      40.4          8.0
Nazareth-Assela (76 km)          30e00            7.50      39e4          9.8
62.       The specific impact of highway improvement is clea.r-cut in a few
cases.  These include the emergence of a coffee-growing region near Jimma; the
growth of grain cultivation in Gojam province; the development of tourist amen.-
ities en route to Shashamana-Dilla and at Nazareth; the advent of cash crop
farming along most. of the route of the Lekempti road.
63,       Despite the stimulus of road development, agricultural production
for both home and foreign markets has increased in a few regions only and by
small amounts relative to national income as a whole. The reasons for this
slow growth ha.ve been discussed in the Bank report "Current Economic Position
and Prospects of Ethiopia", (AS-88a, February 1961)o   Development has been in-
hibited by a number of sociological barriers and institutional obstacles.



- 13 -
1viariy Ethiopian farms are worked by share cropping arrangements under insecure
tenancies which inhibit agricultural practices and attitudes conducive to
economic growth. Standards of education and health among farmers are low.
There has been inadequate government support for agricultural extension work
other than to improve coffee quality and to establish some agricultural educa-
tion institutions. A cycle of backward techniques, low yields and low producti-
vity tends to be perpetuated.  Road transport is verv costly to and from large
areas as yet not reached by goods roads, This separates producers in many good
agricultural regions from potential markets at home and abroad. As a conse-
quence, farmers, by and large, continue to practice subsistence agriculture
producing for their own immediate needs, for petty trade, or for barter in
nearby villages rather than for wider sales, to the country's main cash-markets.
6h.       The resources base is nevertheless lerge and promising.  Ethiopia has
fertile soil and good pasture land.  It can, and does at present produce export
surpluses - coffee, hides and skins, oilseeds - which are readily saleable over-
seas at normal world-market prices. As world consumption of these commodities
increases, t!he volume of Ethiopian exports may be expected to increase.
Ethiopia's own population is growing; urbanization is increasing; and local
manufacturing and processing industries, particularly in Addis, are expanding
their production and sales. In short, there are internal as well as external
market opportunities for the increased output which could result from better
utilization of Ethiopia's agricultural resources.
65.       An improved and enlarged highway system interconnecting more reg:_ons
and reducing transport costs further is one of the basic conditions for agri-
cultural development. However, better roads by themselves are incapable of
stimulating production and trade beyond narrow limits.  If full use is to be
made of the country's productive resources, there must be Government action
concurrently with road building to improve and modernize agricultural organi-
zation and techniques; to educate farmers and improve their health; and to pro-
vide agricultural extension services and agricultural credit facilities. The
Government is fully aware of the need to expand these functions, and expressly
recognizesthe need to do so in a five-year development plan it has just publi-
shed. The Bank plans to send an economic mission to Ethiopia shortly to study
and review the objectives of the five-year plan. This would be an appropriate
occasion to explore with the Government the measures, complementary to road-
building, by which it proposes to stimulate agricultural development. In the
meantime, the measures the Government has in mind for the service areas of the
Lekapti4ihimbi and Agaro-Bedelle-4Gore roads have been discussed with the
Government during the cr-edit negotiations,
B. The Project Roads
66.       The proposed new roads from Lekempti to Ghimbi and from Agaro through
Bedelle to Gore are penetration roads aiming to open productive and fertile
areas where subsistence agriculture is dominant and to promote the cultivation
of certain intervening arable areas.
67.       Good agricultural land exists for 20-25 km at both ends of the
Lekempti-Ghimbi route. The 60 km middle section crosses the River Didessa
Valley (see hIap).  This valley, which lies 600-900 m below the surrounding
plateau, is hot and arid and of little agricultural potential. The lands along
the first 25 km out of Lekempti are cultivated mainly with crops for subsistence
needs and local village markets. Coffee output here is negligible. At the
other end of the road Ghimbi is the collection center for a coffee area stretch-
ing in a 50 Km semi-circle west of the town, which produces about 9,00 tons of



- 4 -
coffee for export annually. Three seasonal tracks from potentially rich agri-
cultural areas around Asosa, Dembidollo and Gore meet at Ghimbi. Although
coffee, hides and some local products are exported from the Ghirmbi area, it
also is predominantly one of subsistence and local village agriculture. Grain,
its most important crop, is not sufficient to meet local consuriiption and has to
be imported into the region, when the coffee-picking starts.
68.       The Agaro-Bedelle-Gore road crosses the Didessa Valley upstream from
the Lekempti-Ghimbi route. The first 30 km section between Agaro and the Valley
passes through a rich coffee grouirng area where thousands of seasonal workers
are employed during the coffee harvest. This area is isolated for all practical
purposes, howiever, from a rich grain and food producing area between Dembi and
Bedelle on the other side of the Valley. The Dembi-Bedelle section traverses
a rolling plateau country which is too high for coffee growTing but which has
good potentialities for food crops and the eventual exploitation of some tiriiber
resources found there. Population densities increase toward the Bedelle area
which is more or less agriculturally self-sufficient. The fertile plateau
continues for 140 km beyond Bedelle to the Gore region where temperatures, rain-
fall and soil are ideal for coffee growing.
69.       The Ghimbi and Gore regions are accessible by motor vehicle only by
seasonal roads which are mere tracks or trails. The present road from Lekempti
to Ghimbi is a deeply rutted, potholed track with many steep grades.  It is
traversable only by heavy duty trucks and four-wvheel drive vehicles during the
7-month dry season, and is generally unusable during most of the 5-month rainy
season. The existing trail from Agaro to Bedelle to Gore is in a very bad con-
dition. It cannot be used at all during the rainy season and only with great
difficulty in the dry season. Nearly all goods moving along the trail are
carried by mules which, in existing conditions, are the most reliable form of
transport. Trucks from Gore to Addis generally take a detour route via Ghimbi
and Lekempti. (See Map.)
70.       Trucking from the Ghimbi and Gore regions to Addis is therefore
costly. Present charges during the dry season on the Lekempti-Ghimbi and
Agaro-Bedelle-Gore roads approximate Eth 045 per tkm as compared writh average
charges of only Eth 04 per tkm between Addis and Lekempti and Eth 06 per tkm
between Addis and Jirma. It now costs about Eth$ 65 per ton to move coffee,
pulses, hides, and food grains 430 Ion to Addis from the Ghimbi region. Of this
sum about three-fourths is the cost of moving over the first 110 km from Ghimbi
to Lekempti. Truckers carrying coffee 635 km from the Gore region to Addis now
charge about Eth $150 per ton, 85-90%l of which is for the initial haul of 250
hm to Agaro/Jirnma or 305 km to Lekeinpti via Ghimbi.
DISTRIBUTION OF TRUCKING CHARGES PER TON
via Lekempti                               via Jimrma
Gore - Ghimbi        195 km    Eth$ 85    Gore - Bedelle   145 km  Eth$ 75
Ghimbi - Lekempti    llO km    Eth$ 50    Bedelle - Agaro  105 km   Eth$, 50
Lekempti - Addis     330 km    Eth-, 15   Agaro - Addis    385 km   Eth$ 25
150                                  150



710       Because of the high cost of transport over the existing roads there
is little cultivation of cash crops in the Gore and Ghimbi regions. As a re--
sult, trade between them and Addis is small.  Only 9,000 tons of coffee to-
gether with 1,000 tons of hides and skinsY, oilseeds and pulses are carried
annually from the Ghimbi region to Addis, Almost the entire movement is con-
centrated during the dry season, at the height of which about 25 trucks a day
move to Addis. Only 3,000 tons a year, practically all of which is coffee,
moves from the Gore region to Addis at present. Of this, 300 tons are air
lifted duringT the rainy season, 2,100 tons are hauled via the detour road
through Ghimbi and Lekempti. Only 600 tons move directly via the Gore-Bedelle
road in the 2-3 trucks a week which use the road during the dry season.
72.       Construction of the new roads would reduce transport costs about
Eth.; hO a ton on trade between the Ghimbi region and Addis and about Eth$110
a ton on trade between the Gore region and Addis. This should enable traders
in both areas to offer higher prices to farmers for their produce which they
buy for resale outside the areas and to charge lower prices for the goods
which they bring in. Poor roads have deterred the establishment of competitive
trading firms in both areas.  With better road access there will be an incen-
tive to increase agricultural output and to engage in cash-crop farming.
73.       The most important benefits expected from the roads are: a) increased
production of coffee, oilseeds, pulses and other foodstuffs in response to the
incentive of higher prices payable to the producers; b) the production of high-
er quality coffee, which sells overseas at premiuri prices, by making it possi-
ble for harketing Board officers to inspect the vital cleaning and preparation
processes; c) an induced output of FEthiopian-manufactured goods to be brought
back into the areas because of the greater purchasing power of the producers;
and d) real savings in the wage, fuel, repair, insurance and depreciation
costs invrolved in truck operations.
7h.       These benefits cannot be evaluated in precise quantitative terms.
There is, however, good reason to believe that the production and trade of the
areas would respond to road improvements in much the same way as, for example,
the production and trade of the Lekempti and Jinma areas since 1950 when they
were provided with all-weather roads built to modest standards. The direct
road user savings from the improvement of the roads for present and generated
traffic might eventually reach the order of EthWL.0 million per annum. The
discounted present values of these savings would not in themselves justify the
investment of approximately Eth.!68.0 million for the roads and bridges.  Both
roads however, would open up and "valorize" inaccessible areas; this develop-
mental impact would induce economic benefits much more important than road
user savings.
75.       According to the Bank's agricultural experts who have visited the
areas, it is reasonable to assume that substantial development would ensue
from the provision of good road connections, Some 5 - 10 years after -
the opening of the roads, the value of induced agricultural production for home
and export markets sent out of the areas might well be in the order of Ethi3.5
million per annum, and that of induced industrial production brought back as
return loads a further Ethl million per annum.



16
76.       Effective administration and other public services would be made
possible by the provision of the roads. The widening of the economic choices
and horizons of the people of the area would also be made possible. The total
potential benefits are commensurate with the construction cost of the simple
gravel-surfaced roads and are sufficient to justify the project.
C. The Pavement PrcigraE
77.       The road sections included in the asphalt surfacing part of the
project are either on the main highways to Addis Ababa or near other growing
towns. If recent traffic trends continue, these road sections will soon carry
average daily traffic volumes of 150-250 vehicles. In the climatic, topo-
graphical, traffic and social conditions existing in the country, such traffic
volume densities are sufficient to economically justify the up-grading of road
surfaces from gravel to low quality asphalt pavements. The savings in road
maintenance and vehicle operating costs which would result more than compensate
for the initial costs and periodic outlays for surface renewal.



- 17 -
V. CONTCLUSIONS Al'TD RECOI21DM MATI0NS
78.       Subject to a final re-scrutiny by approved consultants of the de-
signs and contract documents to be emplcyed, the road and bridges part of the
project is technically sound (paras. 25-33) and economically justified (paras.
52-76).  However, concurrent public and private investment, together with other
governmental measures to induce a favorable economic climate will both insure
and accelerate the arrival of the expected benefits (paras. 63-65).
79.       The asphalting part of the project is soundly based and fully jus-
tified (paras. 38 and 77).
80.       The provision of funds to meet the shortfall in foreign exchange of
the Second Highway Prograrm (Loan 166-ET) is necessary to insure the completion
of the roads involved and their opening to traffic (para. 42).
81.       The planned managerial reorganization of the IHA will insure the
efficient execution of the project especially in view of the employment of
internationally selected management advisers and consultants to supervise the
work of construction on both the old and new projects (paras. 16-19).
82.       In view of the prima facie case for the priority of a road through
the Awash Valley and the large investment it would necessitate, funds are
provided for an engineering survey and feasibility study (paras. 29-30).
83.       During the credit negotiations, firm assurances have been obtained
from the Government of Ethiopia that it would:
a)  Provide the IHA with adequate local funds, as and when necessary
and through satisfactory and agreed procedures, for the efficient
carrying out and completion of the road and bridge works in this
project and for the remainder of the Second Highway Program.
b) Provide adequate annual funds for the proper maintenance of the
Empire' s highway network.
c) Engage consultants on the basis of agreed terms of reference
(i) to advise on the management of IHA, (ii) to supervise the
works in the project, and (iii) to carry out an engineering
survey and study of a future road through the Awash Valley.
84.       The project is therefore suitable for an IDA credit of up to US$v13.5
million equivalent.



Table 1.
ESTIMATED TOTAL PROJECT COST
Foreign
Exchange
Foreign      Local     cost to be
Total     Exchange     Cost      financed
Cost        Cost       Total       by IDA
7~7..(Eth. $ million)=.0..     (US$ million)
1. New Constmction
a Lekempti-Ghimbi Road       12e70         8c25       4.45         3.30
b) Agaro-Bedelle Road        13.60         8.85       4.75         3055
c) Bridges                    1.20        o.60       o.60          Oc25
Sub-total                 27.50       17.70       9.80          7.10
2. Asphalt Program              11.70        3.75        7.95         1.50
3. Accounting Machinery          0.70        o.65       0.05          0.25
4. Management consultants and
supervision of new construc-
tion by consultants           2.70        2.50       0.20         1.00
5. Ahwas Valley road survey
by Consultants               2.50        1.90       o.60          0.75
6. Contingencies (15%)           6.90         3.50       3.40         1.40
Total Third Highway
Program                 52.00       30.00       22.00        12.00
7. Shortfall in remaining con-
tracts Second Highway        6.00         3.75       2.25         1.50
Program
Grand Total               58.o0        33.75      24.25        13.50
In US dollars             23.20       13.50        9.70
Note: Of the total local cost, Eth. $10
million is expected to be financed
from an AID loan.



7nble 2
Planned Three-Year Asphalt Paving Program
First Year
Assab - Combolcia        km 550 to km 650  =       100 km
Modjo - Nazareth         In 70 to lcn 100  =        30  "
Addis - AmIbo            km  61 to km 131  =        70
Total 200 km
Second Year
Asmara - Keren           km   5 to km 55   =        50 km
Asmara - Nassawa         km 52 to km 102   =        50 
Addis - Debra Berhan     km  11 to km 111  =       100
Assab  - Combolcia       km 450 to km 550  =       100
300 km
Third Year
Diri Dawa - Harrar       km   0 to km 55   =        55 km
Assab - Combolcia        km 375 to km 450  =        75  I
Combolcia - Dessie       km 375 to km 400 =         25
Asmara - Decamer         km   5 to km   0  =        35 "
Decamer - Senafe         km 40 to km 105   =        65 It
Addis - Fitche (Blue     km   7 to km 52   =         5  t
Nile)
Total 300 km



TABLE 3
IHA - Source of Funds for Expenditures
(March 1951 - July 1962)
(EthW maillion)
Source          First Program        Interim Period         Second Program
of            Mlarch 1951 -        iviarch 1954 -         September 1957 -
Funds           February 1954        September 1957         July 1.962
Ethiopia             25.37               33.44                   63.92
Eritrea               L014                2.93                    5,10
I.B.R.D.             12.50                                       33.29
U.S.A.I.D.           ----                                         3.5o
Other                ----                 0.39                    1.59
TOTAL         3901               36,76                  107.4eo
Source: IHA



Table 4
Motor Vehicle Registration by Class - Ethiopia
1956-61 (January 1)
1.
Year       Passenger    Buses     Pick-ups      Trucks    Total
Cars
1956        10,010       180       1,310        3,330    Lb,840
1957        10,910       260       3;190        2,750    17,110
1958        11,130       200       3,520        2,980    17,830
1959        12,020       350       3,640        3,830    19,840
1960        13,730       330       4,000        3,980    22,040
1961        15,230       410       4,160       4.,270    24,070
Source:  Program and Planning Division of I.H.A.
2. Percent increase between 1956-61
Total l?Iotor Vehicles           62%
Passenger cars                   52%
Buses                            128%
Pick-ups                        218%
Trucks                           28%



Table Annex 5
IHAts Total Expenditures Over Next Three Years
Eth$ - million
ITEM                                     IDA    GOVERNMENT    TOTAL
1. To complete Second Highway Program            3.75      2.25        6.00
Sub-Total       3.75      2.25        6.00
2. Third Highway Program
a) construction, asphalting, and supervision
and management consultants               24.6o      18e00      42.60
b) Ahwas Valley road survey                  1.90       0.60       2.50
c) contingencies                             3.50       3.40       6e90
Sub-Total     33.75      24.25      58.0o
3. Routine Maintenance                            -        25-00      25rOO
4. Betterment Works                               -        30.00      30-00
Total         33.75      79.25     113X00
In U.S. Dollars         13350      31.70      45cco



SAUDI ARABIA
R.                        r                                   > iETHIOPIA
ROAD PROJECT
MAIN ROADS
) 0 /62= ASN^RA fl s o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAI LWAY          ..   .....{I j|q 
/      5  0/  -\  A   L_  IRNO  A   / ~ ~nR O   I N C L U D E D
\   /   Endc  <klqrof  s_'  8  =      %~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN  ROEC
K         E\e  4/  A/ 11Z E K E t Er   \ _EREl
SEPTEMAR 92              T0 8536 S.,
. \ %>, ~~~~~~~~~~DESSEI g  ^j 
! 1 W T Xe yg \* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                    O M   A   L   I  A
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gib                        LEEMT " A40I/ 
~~~~A                                     (SS-                                  gDl R.5; 
! fJ  t>>  .  hghelil  tA           ~~~~~~~ ~     ~    ~~~~~~~GAM6ELAO\/ 
t |  )   Towello                                 f wAg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aro
UGANDA  $  K  g  ~~~EN                                                    _. A c S  O M A L I A 
SEPTEMBER 1962                                                                     IBRD 853R



