CREDIT NUMBER 35 ET
Project Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
DATED FEBRUARY 27, 1963


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 35 ET
Project Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
DATED FEBRUARY 27, 1963


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1963, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY (here-
inafter called the Authority).
TWHEREAS by an agreenent of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Development Credit Agreement) between
the Empire of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, as the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand dol-
lars ($13,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the Authority agree to undertake certain obligations
to the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Associ-
ation's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
fo llows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Authority
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Authority shall carry out and


﻿4
maintain the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound engineering, financial and high-
way practices.
(b) In carrying out the Project, the Authority shall
employ competent and experienced consultants acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
SECTION 2.02. Upon request from time to time by the
Association, the Authority shall furnish promptly to the
Association, upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions and work schedules for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall from time to time request.
SECTION 2.03. The Authority shall maintain records ade-
quate to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
receipts and expenditures of the Authority; shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods and any relevant records and documents; and
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project,
the goods, the operations and receipts and expenditures
of the Authority.
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Association and the Authority
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Association and the Authority shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
The Authority shall promptly inform the Association of


﻿5
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
or the performance of the Authority of its obligations under
this Agreement or the obligations to be performed by it
pursuant to the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement, or which shall increase or threaten to increase
materially the estimated cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.05. The Authority shall satisfy the Associa-
tion that adequate arrangements have been made to insure
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
risks incident to their purchase, importation into the terri-
tories of the Borrower and to the delivery thereof to the
site of the Project.
SECTION 2.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed by
the Association, the Authority shall use all goods purchased
with the proceeds of the Credit exclusively in the carrying
out of the Project.
SECTIo. 2.07. The Authority shall cause all machinery
and equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
bc adequately maintained and repaired and shall cause
suitable workshops to be maintained in suitable places for
that purpose.
SECTION 2.08. The Authority shall at all times cause the
roads included in the Borrower's highway system to be
maintained fully and adequately, in accordance with sound
engineering practices.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date when the Development Credit Agreement
shall become effective as provided therein.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and the
obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease and deter-


﻿6
mine on the date when the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice, demand or request required
or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified,
or at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
demand or request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Authority:
Imperial Highway Authority
P.O.B. 1770
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Highways
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿7
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Authority
may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such
other person or persons as the Authority shall designate
in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Authority shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Authority, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Authority pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
I WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names by
their representatives thereunto duly authorized and deliv-
ered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
By MAHTEME SELASSIE W.M.
Authorized Representative


