Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/                         A/ V -Y  ' -)
Report No. 6813-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
October 15, 1987
Asi;a Regional Office
This document has a resicted distibution and may be used by redpients only In the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents way not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authoriatin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of September 1987)
Currency Unit        Rupiah (Rp)
US$ 1.00             Rp 1,650
Rp 1 million    =   US$606.06
!NDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I millimeter (mm)                -   0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                      -   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                 -   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         -   0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                   -   2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)               -   35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM)   -   811 acre-feet
1 liter (1) = 1.06 quarts        -   0.264 ga lons (US)
1 liter/second (1/sec)           -   0.035 fti per second
1 kilogram (kg)                  -   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)               -   2,205 pounds



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYM3 AND INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
ADB           - Asian Development Bank
APBN          -  Central Government Budget
BAPPEDA       -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Agency
BDP           -  Bidank Diklat Pengairan (in DCGRD - Representative office of
Pusdiklat)
BIE           -  Bachelor of Engineering
BIPOWERED        Bandung International Professional Training Program for Water
Resources Development
BPKP          -  Financial and Development Supervisory Board
CABANG DINAS  -  Irrigation Section
DAAD          -  Directorate of Agriculture Area Development (in DCFCA)
DGFCA         -  Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGWRD         -  Directorate Gene-al of Water Resources Development (in MPW)
DIK           -  Daftar Isian Kegiatan (routine budget allocation)
DIP           -  Daftar Islan Pr" .k (development budget allocatitn)
DIPERTA       -  Provincial Agricultural Service
DOI-I&II      -  Directorates of Irrigation I and II (in DGWRD)
DOR           -  Directorate of Rivers (in DGWRD)
DOS           -  Directorate of Swamps (in DGWRD)
DPP           -  Directorate of Planning and Programming (in DGWRD)
DPU           -  Provincial Public Works
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES        -  Revenue sharing grant programs from GOI to provincial,
district and village authorities
IPEDA         -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
ISF           -  Irrigation Service Fee
Juru          -  Irrigation Overseer
Kabupaten     -  Administrative District
MOA           -  Ministry of Agriculture
MHA           -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MPW           -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M           -  Operation and Maintenance
OECF          -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
Palawija      -  Secondary food crops (grown mainly in dry season)
Pengamat      -  Irrigation inspector, head of subsection (Ranting Dinas)
PBB           -  Property and Building Tax
P2AT          -  Sub-directorate (within DOI-II) responsible for groundwater
development
PPL           - Village level agricultural extension worker
PPM           -  Mid-level agricultural extension worker
PPS           -  Subject matter specialist
PRIS          -  Provincial Irrigation Service
Pusdiklat     -  Education and Training Division (in MPW)
Repelita      -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89)
Seksi         -  Irrigation Section Office
STM           -  Technical & High School level staff
Ulu-Ulu       -  Irrigation water master
Wilayah       -  Irrigation District Office
WUA           -  Water Users' Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................                                   vi
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND .................... . ...... ... ..        1
A.  Project Background.c      k     gr....  .........ou  nd....  .  . ...  1
B.  The Agriculture Sec                        t      or                 2
-  Background.s  c     k     g     r                 ou nt.........  **,....  2
-  Objectives... ...........,.....e......................            2
-  Performance .......................9........                      2
C.  The Irrigation Subsectorb        s    e    ct..o o......o.........o...or..  3
-  Surface Irri                  g    a     t    i    o    n         3
-  Srunwamp.,...........,. .  *...............                       3 
-  Small River    M       o       uths                               4
D.  Institutional Framework and Supporting Servicesv...ces0.09.          5
-  Irrigation Services for O&.                                       5
-  Water Users' Associationso.......................... .O           6
-  O&M Practices .............                      p                7
-  Staffing and Fa      ii l i t i e s                               8
-  Staff Tra                   i      n      i     n      g          8
E.  O&M Funding and Cost Recovery.........................o..            9
-  O&M Funding............................... 99
-  Cost R      er     .99r                                 9        10
-    Irrigation Service Fee                                         10
- Land Tax                                                          11
F.  Irrigation Development Strategy, Issues and Investment
Programs ................................ 99999   e               1 11
-  Subsector Issues andStrategy...........................          11
-  Investment P    rag                  r     a     m     .         12
G.  Bank Role and Subsector Lending Strategy.r.ateg...*.,.....          15
-  Seneral                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
-  Experience under Previous Projectso.... 04....9*.......9         15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
February/March 1987 comprising Messrs. A. Zulfiqar, E. Kramer, Ho Eisa,
M. Mian, P. Sun, and Ms. S. Ganguly (Bank) and E. Greenshields, G. Cazaux and
W. David (Consultants). Mr. T. Bertrand (Bank) participated part time.



- ii -
Page No.
II.  THE PROJECT ........................                                      16
A.  Rationale for Banklnvolvement.............................           16
B.  Project Objectives and Description .........................        17
-  Project Objectives. ...**..*.*o*** * ....................,        17
-  Project Descriptions c r i p ti.....o............on..... o....    17
C.  Detailed Features        ..... ....... ..         ..... e            18
-  Special Maintenance.................*  **c*4G*oci..               18
-  Surface Irrigation Systems...........................O         18
-  Swamp Sys                      t      e      m      s          19
-  Small River Mouthse..............e....,.....o........          19
- Efficient O&M ............... . ............                       20
-  Surface Irrigation Systems...e....c......c.........            20
-  Swamp Systems ... .e.........a....... c c CC....., .... e.a.a.. e.e.c  20
-  Completion of Ongoing Projects......................o..           21
-  Pilot Groundwater Development............cc.c.e.c.e.c..           23
-  Turnover of Small Irrigation Systems,,,#o,.os........             24
-  Irrigation Service Fee.......................     ........       26
-  Land Valuetion and Strengthening of P8                  B         27
-  Institutional Strengthening and Training... ............          28
-  Technical Assistance and Studies...                               30
D. Cost Estimates* ....c33
E.  Financing.. c  e   ece   s c.c  cc. sc.  c.   c e..... o.....      34
F. Preparation Status and Implementation Schedule......... cc.           35
Go Procurement                                                           36
H.  Disbursement.....                                                    40
Is Environmental Effects                                                 41
J.  Role of Women...e                                                    42
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.....                                              42
A.  Organization and Management.cc.cc.c....cc..e..o.ceccc.c..c           42
-  National Level Organization and Management ..........             42
-  Provincial and Field Level Organization and Management..          44
B.  O&M Funding ...............    ......    ........ * ccc...... cc     45
C.  Accounts and Audits. ceccee ..........e.c.e...... .......c..         45
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation. c.....e......c...  e     e  oee *...... c c..  46
IV.  CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTIONODUCTI.O.....e.cce.              47
A.  Present and Future Cropping Pat       terrn...o...............       47
B. Yields, Production and Markets...rk................ets....            48
V.  PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY ...........c....                  49
A. Prices                                                                49
B.  Farm Incomes and Payment Capacityp...                                49
C.  Cost Recovery and Operations and Maintenance Funding.......O       50
D.  Cost Recovery Indices.....ecc. e c.....                              51



- lli -
Page No.
VI.  BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   ........ sesse........      52
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries.................................         52
B.  Economic Analysis5..................... .. ........... *6e****.     53
C.  Risks and Uncertainties..e........... ... *  . . ... .... .... ...  54
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................,..              56
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1    Subsector Injestment in Relation to O&M Expenditures....         13
1.2    GOI's Commitments for Externally Financed Projects......         14
1.3    Ongoing (Partially Externally Financed) Projects........         14
2.1    Turnover of Small Irrigation Sy s            t e m s             25
2.2    Pilot Areas for the Introduction of Irrigation
Service Fee9,o ...........J-X****---**¢* 26
2.3    Project Cost Sumayr                                     y        34
2.4    Project Financing Plan...... .            * e . . .......... ...  35
2.5    Procurement Plan...                                              39
2.6    Disbursement Schedulec     hd..... ...l e.o.... o... ......l..e  40
5.1    Net Farm Incomes .       .............          ,      ..        50
5.2    Cost Recovery Ind                                                52
6.1    Summary of Major Benefits and Beneficiaries..........            53
6.2    Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis........         55



ANNEXES
Annex 1:     GOI's Policy Statem- ... and Action Plan
Annex 2:     Cost Estimates and Implementation Schedules
Table 1:   Project Cost Summary (By Expenditure Categories)
Table 2:   COI's Financing Plan (by fiscal year)
Table 3:   Irrigation-Implementation Schedule
Table 4:   Swamps - Implementation Schedule
Table 5:   Schedule for Handing Over Swamps Projects to Provincial Organ-
izations
Table 6:   Selected Ongoing Projects
Table 7:   Groundwater Component - East Java and Sulawesi - Implementation
Schedule
Teble 8:   Groundwater Component - Lombok - Implementation Schedule
'table 9: Land Reclassification, Valuation and Strengthening of IPEDA/PBB
Directorate - Implementation Schedule
Table 10: A Pilot Scheme of Mapping - Implementation Schedule
Table 11: Ongoing Land Reclassification Program
Table 12: Ten-Year Land Reclassification Program
Table 13: Introduction of Irrigation Service Fee - Implementation
Schedule
Annex 3:     Institutional Development and Training
Table 1:   Proposed Approach to O&M Procedures
Table 2:   Training and Related Activities
Annex 4:     Consultancy Services
Table 1:   Consultancy Services for Project Implementation
Table 2:   Consultancy Services for Institutional Development
Annex 5      O&M Funding
Table 1:   Central Government Funding of O&M (1979/80 - 1987/88)
Table 2:   Funding of O&M in Selected Provinces (1986/87)
Table 3:   Funding of O&M in Rest of the Provinces (1986/87)
Table 4:   Incremental Funding Requirements for Efficient O&M - Irrigation
Table 5:   Incremental Funding Requirements for Efficient O&M - Swamps
Table 6:   Projection of Rural PBB
Table 7:   Projected Sources uf Incremental Financing for Efficient O&M
Annex 6      Investment Expenditures
Table 1:   Realization of Physical Targets - Actual and Projected for
Repelita IV
Table 2:   Actual and Planned Investment Expenditures
Table 3s   Central Government Investment (DIP) Expenditures - 1984/85 -
1988/89
Table 4:   Allocations of Loans and Disbursements up to January 1, 1987 -
Bank-financed Projects
Table 5:   Allocations of Loans and Disbursements - ADB-Financed Projects
Table 6:   Allocations of Loans and Disbursements - OECF-Financed Projects
Table 7:   Estimated GOI Funding of Foreign Financed Projects



Annex 7:     Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Table 1:   Yields - Present Situation and Future with Project
Table 2:   Crop Areas - Present Situation and Future with Project
Table 3:   Incremental Crop Production at Full Development
Annex 8:     Repayment Capacity of Water Users
Table 1:   Java Farm Models - Using Actual Farmgate Prices
Table 2:   Outside Ja-a Models - Using Actual Farmgate Prices
Table 3:   Java Farm Models - Using Government Support Level Prices
Table 4:   Outside Java Farm Models - Using Government Support Level
Prices
Annex 9:     Economic Analysis
Table 1:   Derivation of Economic Prices
Table 2:   Financial and Economic Prices
Annex 10:    Selected Documents and Data Available in Files
CHARTS:
1. Organizational Arrangements for Project Implementation
2. Organizational Arrangements for the Implementation of Training Activities
3. Approach to Strengthening Irrigation Management at the Tertiary and
Quarternary Levels
4. Organizational Setup for the Pilot Scheme for Irrigatiorv Service Fee
MIAP
--BRD 20240



- vi -
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Loen and Projec:t Suumary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$234 million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 y'ears, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:       The project would be the first phase of a long-term program
aimed at supporting the Government of Indonesia's (GOI)
efforts to: (a) improve operations and maintenance (O&M) to
sustain the effectiveness of all irrigation systems, through
adequate levels of funding, and strengtheving of
instituEions and proceduree for O&M planning and
implementation; (b) introduce direct cost recovery from
irrigation beneficiaries and increase local revenue
generation to reduce the burden of O&M expenditures on
central and provincial budgets; and (c) rationalize existing
and programed investments in the subsector.
Predicated upon, and within the framework of, an agreed
medium-term Policy Statement and an Action Plan of specific
measures to be taken over the three year project
implementation period, the project would consist of the
following: (a) special maintenance works (i.e. deferred
maintenance and minor systems upgrading) on about 400,000 ha
of irrigated land, about 106,000 ha of reclaimed swamp land,
and five river mouths, so that these can sustain efficient
O&M in future. Detailed preparation and design work would
be underzaken for about 200,000 ha of irrigated areas and
55,500 ha of swamps requiring special maintenance to be
covered in the first year of a follow-up project;
(b) systematic introduction of efficient O&M on about
700,000 ha of irrigated land and 87,000 ha of swamp land;
(c) completion of about 40 priority, GOI-funded on-going
projects, selected on the basis of agreed technical and
economic criteria; (d) pilot groundwater development through
construction of some 900 tubewells for small farmers in
primarily rainfed areas; (e) support for policy reforms and
institutional strengthening and training, including
privatization of small public irrigation systems, a pilot
scheme for introduction of direct irrigation service fees,
improving local reverue generation via land reclassification
and valuation, O&M manpower planning and development, and
strengthening of the central, provincial and district level
institutions responsible for irrigation O&M, and of water



- vii -
users' associations; and (f) technical assistance and
studies (institutional strengthening study, investment
strategy study, and environmental impact studies) in support
of the above components.
An efficient operation of the existing capital stock (in
irrigation infrastructure), expediting the completion of
priority ongoing projects, striking an appropriate balance
between expenditures on new investments and O&M of the
existing investments, and reducing the dependence on central
government budgets for O&M funding via improved cost
recovery and local revenue generation, would all contribute
towards sustained development of the irrigation subsector.
Risks:             The principal risks are that:  (a) the implementation of the
policy framework, and measures in the Action Plan in support
thereof, may be prolonged or deferred, despite GOI's
commitment as reflected in the Policy Statement and Action
Plan; (b) implementation of physical works may be delayed;
and (c) the level of funding allocated for efficient O&M may
be inadequate or the funds provided may be inefficiently
utilized. These risks are expected to be minimized by the
proposed long-term program approach, the provision for
substantial technical assistance, and by the steps already
taken by the Government to appoint key consultants and to
have the salient organizational arrangements for project
implementation in place.



- viii -
Estimated Costs:                                Local      Foreign      Total
---- US$ million -----
Special Maintenance                            45.2         27.7         72.9
Incremental O&M                                  9.5         6.1         15.6
Recurrent O&M /a                                44.1        34.9         79.0
Ongoing GOI-funded Projects                     60.9        42.5        103.4
Groundwater Development                          6.6         6.0         12.6
Institutional Development                        6.9        12.4         19.3
Turnover of Small Systems, Irrigation
Service Fee - Pilot Schemes, Land
Reclassification and Valuation                 6.2         3.0          9.2
Base Cost lb                              179.4        132.6        312.0
Physical Contingencies                          15.6        12.4         28.0
Price Contingencies                             16.1         3.0         19.1
Total Project Costs                        211.1        148.0        359.1
Financing Plan:
GOI                                         109.7          -         109.7
Bank                                        94.4        139.6        234.0
Government of Netherlands                     6.4         5.4         11.8
Government of Italy                          0.3          2.7          3.0
Ford Foundation                              0.3          0.3          0.6
Total                                    211.1        148.0        359.1
Disbursements:
Bank FY           1988        1989        1990        1991
Annual            30.0        80.0        80.0        44.0
Cumulative        30.0       110.0       190.0       234.0
Rate of Return:   21%
t:E':             IBRD No. 20240
/a   Present level of O&M expenditures.
/b   Including taxes amounting to about US$18.5 million equivalent.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROSECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1       The large expansion of irrigation infrastructute in Indonesia over
the last two decades has been impressive and has made a major contribution to
bringing the economy to self-sufficiency in rice. However, this successful
expansion was not accompanied by a country-wide effort to maintain and operate
efficiently much of the 4.8 million ha of the irrigation systems.
Consequently many systems are poorly maintained. Unless there is a radical
shift of national focus towards operations and maintenance (O&M), a massive
and much more costly expenditure, in both financial and economic terms, on
rehabilitation in the neAt 10-15 years, would become inevitable. The
recognition of the importance of O&M, coming at the same time as Indonesia is
reaching the threshold of rice self-sufficiency and facing severe resource
constraints, is leading to a sharp redirection of GOI's priorities away from
expansion and modernization of specific irrigation systems, towards
efficiently operating and maintaining existing systems and the completion of
only priority ongoing projects. Recognizing that this shift in focus is
critical to optimizing the returns from investments in irrigation and
preventing a decline in agricultural yields from current levels, GOI has
enunciated and evolved new policies and concerted medium-term actions on
subsector-wide O&M funding, institutional strengthening and cost recovery.
1.2       The proposed project would be the first phase of a program aimed at
supporting these policy and institutional reforms as well as appropriate
levels of O&M expenditures and development of new sources of financing from
provincial authorities and beneficiaries. The project was identified by a
Bank mission during discussions with the Government in February/March 1986,
and prepared by the Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD)
in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) with the assistance of consultants
financed under Irrigation XIV (Loan 1811-IND). Concurrently, a draft
Subsector Policy Statement and detailed Action Plan to provide the
underpinnings for ihe program, were prepared by a working group including
representatives from BAPPENAS, the Ministries of Finance (MOF), Home Affairs
(MHA) and Agriculture (MOA), and DGWRD. Following preparation mi. ,ions that
visited Indoneaia during June through November 1986 and an appraisal mission
in February/March 1987, broad agreement was reached with Government on the
overall project concept and scope, as well as on the draft Subsector Policy
Statement and Action Plan covering related policy issues in the irrigation
subsector. Following technical discussions held in Jakarta during June/July
1987, negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., during September 1987. The
Government delegation was led by Mr. Soebandi, the Director General of Water
Resources Development.



-2-
B. The Agriculture Sector
Background
1.3       Agricultuve remains a key sector of the Indonesian economy,
contributing about one-fourth of GDP and providing employment to 55% of the
labor force. The sector has an important role in non-oil merchandise trade,
with major agricultural exports accounting for 33% of the value of non-oil
exports, and food for 7% of imports. Of the country's cropped area of 24
million ha, about 8 million ha are under perennial crops, 9 million ha are in
dryland farms, and 7 million ha in wetlands suitable for rice cultivation.
Rice occupies about 38% (9 million ha) of the total cropped area, corn 13%
(3 million ha), cassava 7% (1.6 million ha), and soybean 3% (0.8 million
ha). Food crops account for 63% of agricultural GDP, with rice alone
accounting for a 30% share in 1985. Areas well endowed with rainfall and
irrigation facilities usually grow two to three crops a year: rice followed
by soybean or corn in the second and third cultivation cycles. Farm holdings
are predominantly small--34% of all household lots are less than 0.25 ha, and
about 29% are between 0.25 and 0.5 ha. It is estimated that 44% of the rural
population lives below the absolute poverty income level of US$106 per capita.
Objectives
1.4       The Government's major objectives for the agriculture sector during
Repelica IV are to: (a) increase production to meet domestic requirements for
food while meeting the needs of industry and expanding agricultural exports;
(b) increase farmers' incomes and generate employment; (c) promote a more
balanced distribution of economic opportunities, regional development and land
settlement through transmigration; and (d) contribute to the health and better
nutritional status of the population.
Performance
1.5       Since 1969, agricultural growth has averaged about 4% p.a. and
outpaced population growth by a significant margin. Rice output, which has
grown a,: 5% p.a. since 1969 (6.3% p.a. since 1975), has made a solid
contribution to the sector's impressive performance. The dramatic increase in
rice production from 17.4 million tons in 1979/80 to about 26.6 million tons
in 1985 essentially transformed the country from one of the world's largest
importers of rice (about 2.6 million tons in 1979/80) to one with surpluses in
1985/86. Other food crops (particularly corn) and cash crops (such as rubber,
palm oil, coconuts and spices) have also shown impressive growth and added to
the significant gains registered in rural welfare in the past several years.
This performance is the result of sustained Government support to the
agriculture (especially rice) sector through heavy investments in rural
infrastructure, particularly irrigation systems, research and extension, and
input subsidies combined with technological breakthroughs achieved in high
yielding rice varieties (HYVs). The past performance of the sector cannot,
however, be sustained if operations and maintenance of the large irrigation
infrastructure continues to be neglected. In the future, a growth in rice
output of about 2.5-3% p.a. will have to be maintained to meet domestic



- 3 -
demand. The strategic imperative is to reduce costs and increase efficiency
of Government interventions to encourage efficient rice production, and to
fully exploit the potential for agricultural diversification by (i) addressing
technical problems in field crops through research and extension;
(ii) encouraging adequate input supplies and related services such as credit
and marketing; and (iii) improving the planning and implementation of Lree
crops programs.
C. The Irrigation Subsector
Surface Irrigation
1.6       The total irrigated area in Indonesia of 4.8 million ha includes 2.6
million ha of technical irrigated area, 1.3 million ha of semi-technical
irrigated area, and 0.9 million ha of simple irrigated area. The technical
areas have permanent canals7 control structures and measuring devices, and all
the water allocation and distribution up to the tertiary head is controlled by
the Government. The semi-technical areas have permanent canals but few
control and measuring structures. The source, and sometimes the primary
canal, is controlled by the Government but distribution is left to the
farmers. The simple or non-technical areas generally have few permanent
intakes or distribution structures, and water is used by farmers without any
control by the Government. Nearly 19% of the irrigated area is covered by
systems smaller than 500 ha in size and most of these systems are either semi-
technical or simple irrigation systems. As enunciated in the Policy Statement
(Annex 1), the Government policy is to efficiently operate and maintain
technical systems larger than 500 ha, and to privatize (i.e. turn over to
water users' associations) smaller systems, which are generally semi-technical
or simple. The growth rate in irrigated area harvested has been 1.6% p.a.
between 1969 and 1985 (0.5% p.a. on Java, and 3.8% p.a. on outer islands where
it started from a low base). Virtually all this growth is attributable to
increase in technical irrigation svstems, which grew at 2.5% p.a., largely due
to the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing semi-technical systems. Over
.he firet three Repelitas, rehabilitation and flood control/conservation each
accounted for about 27-28% of total Government investment in the subsector.
The expansion of the irrigation network accounted for the largest share of
investment in the subsector (35%), and this share increased from 22% in
Repelita I to 39% in Repelita III (1979/80 to 1984/85). However, the
maintetnance of the existing capital stock in irrigation netwnrk was
increasingly neglected due to an inadequate allocation of funds for O&M, and
an ineffective utilization of the limited available funds (para. 1.24). As a
result, a large number of weirs and intakes require structural repairs, many
gates need replacement, and most canals suffer from excessive silt deposition
and loss of capacity. Besides contributing to significant reduction in the
efficiency of the irrigation systems, a continuation of this state of affairs
could lead to substantial degradation of the capital stock in irrigation
facilities, and an enormous expense in rehabilitating it in future.
Swamps
1.7       Indonesia has an estimated 35 million ha of inland and coastal
swamps, mostly with medium to heavy textured clay and silty clay soils



- 4 -
ovetlaid with surface peat. About 5.5 million ha of coastal swamps have been
identified as havuing agricultural potential (1.4 million ha in Sumatra,
1.4 million ha in Kalimantan, and 2.7 million ha in Irian Jaya), but
conservation of primary forests and land rights are likely to constrain the
area that can be developed. About 600,000 ha have been reclaimed through
Government sponsored schemes during the period 1969/70 to 1985/86, involving
construction of several thousand kilometers of large irrigation and primary
drainage canals and a multiple length of smaller drains. The potential for
agricultural development is affected by the relatively low first phase
investments in basic infrastructure, and considerable improvements in
controlling drainage and on-farm water management are possible. About 80% of
these reclaimed areas are dependent on tidal effects for flood irrigation and
drainage of land along major rivers. Almost all schemes are classed as non-
technical, with no water control structures and only very limited monitoring
of water levels. As in the case of surface irrigation systems, the
maintenance of the main drainage systems in reclaimed swamps was to be done
through the Provincial Public Works, and farm.ers, through the establishment of
water users' groups, were to operate and maintain tertiary systems. In
practice, however, not much is done, because the responsibility for O&M of
main and secondary systems has not yet been formally transferred from DGWRD to
the provincial authorities. Furthermore, prior to 1984, swamp schemes
received no regular allocations for maintenance funds, and as a result now
suffer from reduced canal sections, silted beds, unstable banks, and broken
and settled flood bunds. Where control structures have been built, many have
settled and cracked, and these are in urgent need of repairs. If further
deterioration is allowed, rehabilitation would prove very costly.
Groundwater
1.8       Public sector groundwater activities have been concentrated in East
Java. Up to about a decade ago, there was little private participation except
through hand-dug and manually operated wells and minor developments on the
sugar estates. In the mid-1970s, the private sector in East Java developed a
technology for construction of low-cost shallow tubewells in the shallow water
table areas of flurio-volcanic aquifer systems, but this technology has not
yet been exported to any of the other islands. A subdirectorate within DGWRD
retains O&M responsibility for groundwater facilities for at least two years
after commissioning of a public system. During this period, a weter users'
group is set up within the tubewell command area, and training is 2rovided to
the participants to operate the facility. Subsequently, part of the
responsibilities for the salary of the operator, payment for fuel, minor
maintenance of the canal system, arrangement for water del.iveries to
individual farmers, and recovery of O&M costs are handed over to the water
us* 's group. DGWRD retains responsibility for fuel supply and delivery, for
maj   maintenance (particularly of pump units), and for replacement of wells
and pump units. This turnover of part of the responsibilities to the water
users' groups has been generally functioning satisfactorily.
Small River Mouths
1.9       There are about 170 major river basins and about 228 sub-basins in
Indonesia, over 90% of which are on the islands of Sumatra, Java, Kalimantan



- 5 -
and Sulawesi. High population pressure on agricultural land and rapid
deforestation have led to soil erosion, sedimentation and flood peaks in the
river enUironment. Most of the 90 or so smaller rivers in the northern part
of Java and the eastern and western seab_ards of Sumatra are also affected by
pronounced littoral drift and barrier beach formation in the dry season, when
compensation flows are inadequate to keep the mouths open. The consequent
flooding of low-lying agricultural lands causes major delays in planting dates
and lower yields, and also seriously interferes with the navigation of fishing
vessels serving poor isolated communities. The economic losses resulting from
periodic flooding of both agricultural and other lands are signicicant.
Raising of river banks and installation of flood control gates have been tried
in some of these areas, while in others a minimum of dredging or other repairs
are carried out by local irrigation officials to prevent flood damage or to
keep lines of communication open. However, the recurrent choking of river
mouths continues to be a problem.
D. Institutional Framework and Supporting Servi ces
Irrigation Services for O&M
1.10      The MPW, MOA and MBA are involved in providing irrigation and
related services including technical guidance to farmers on water use,
planning of cropping systems in irrigated areas, timely injection of inputs,
and assistance in the organization of wate, users' groups. Within the
Provincial Public Works (DPU), the Provincial Irrigation Service (PRIS) is
responsible for operating and maintaining the public irrigation systems. The
chief of the PRIS is administratively responsible to the Provincial Governor
through the Chief of DPU, but for all technical and personnel matters, the
PRIS chief comes under the jurisdiction of DGWRD. Each PRIS, at its
provincial headquarters, includes sections for planning and design, irrigation
construction, rivers and swamps, operation and maintenance, and logistics.
The O&M section is involved in preparing operation plans and guidelines and
O&M budgets, and in ensuring adequate O&M in the province.  While several
recent Bank-assisted projects have focussed on building up the capacity of
PRIS in design and construction supervision of small systems and to improve
O&M performance, more institutional strengthening is needed to enable better
planning, organization, budgeting and control of O&M activities.
1.11      The O&M for the main irrigation system is carried out mostly by the
irrigation section (cabang dinas) and subsection (rai.ing dinas) staff. A
section usually covers from 20,000 to 40,000 ha. Each section consists of
about 5 subsections, which are headed by inspectors (pengemats). A subsection
office covers an area of 4,000-6,000 ha, and has about 6 irrigation overseers
(jurus). As the junior-most member of the PRIS field staff, the juru is
responsible for about 1,000 ha, setting 6 or more gates, recording hydrologic
and cropping pattern data, arranging the emergency maintenance of main and
secondary canals within his jurisdiction, and persuading farmers throughi their
village headmen and irrigation water master (ulu-ulu) to maintain tertiary and
quaternary canals, and to agree on planting dates for rational water
distribution and management. Each juru is assisted by gate-keepers and a few
laborers. The section and subsection staff are required, as part of the
guidelines for operation, to estimate crop areas, stages of crop growth, crop



water requirements, field application and conveyance losses, and water inflows
and outflows in offtakes and structures that usually have adjustable gates.
These activities require higher technical capabilities and numbers of staff
than are usually available at present.
1.12      The Provinciai Agricultural Service (DIPERTA) has six subservices,
including agricultural area development. This subservice has a water
management section which deals primarily with irrigation system development,
on-farm water management, and water users' associations (WUAs). At the
district and subdistrict levels, the agricultural services are organized into
fewer subservices, and water management is placed under the plant protection
subservice. At the agricultural service level, there are water management
(Tata Guna Air) staff, whose duties include the provision of on-farm water
management guidance to WUAs, help in establishing WUAs, and training of field
extension workers (PPL) in on-farm water management. As in the case of the
PRIS, the main weakness of the water management units at the provincial,
district and subdistrict levels is the lack of staff both in numbers and in
technical capabilities.
1.13      The MHA through the various levels of administrative services and
the agricultural development committees is supposed to coordinate irrigation
water distribution (through the various Irrigation Committees at the
Provincial and Kabupaten levels) and the formation of viable WUAs. Since the
Irrigation Committees (comprising representatives from the Public Works,
provincial/local, governments, and agricultural services) do not have any
control over funds or a working secretariat, coordination is generally weak
and most Irrigation Committees are virtually inactive. While their main task
is to determine cropping plans, in practice, this generally gets decided by
the Governor by official decree.
Water Users' Associations
1.14      Experience in Indonesia has pointed to the need to consult farmers
during the design phase of irrigation systems and, particularly for tertiary
networks, to ensure that they understand and agree with the purpose and
procedures, and afterwards operate and maintain them properly. Recognizing
the importance of efficient water management at the farm level, GOI in 1975
decreed the establishment of WaAs at the village level. The Presidential
Instruction No. 2 in 1984 set out the organizational structure of the WUAs.
WUA management consists of a Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer
and Irrigation Water Master (Ulu-Ulu). Committee members are elected by WUA
members who own or rent irrigated paddy within the tertiary unit. A typical
WUA would operate an area of about 70-100 ha, and have a membership of 100-200
farmers. The members are divided into farm groups by sub-tertiary and
quarternary blocks. Most of the WUAs have been established along
administrative boundaries. As tertiary boundaries do not necessarily coincide
with village boundaries, this has often led to inadequate coverage by WUAs of
tertiary systems. The task of reorganizing WUAs along hydrologic boundaries
is being undertaken in some areas.
1.15      As a matter of policy, a WUA should be operational in each tertiary
system. In practice, however, only about 15% of the existing WUAs are active,



- 7 -
20% semi-active, and the rest are inactive. TVi lack or inactivity of WUAs
may be due to poor tertiary system development. About 35% of the number of
tertiaries in the areas identified for special maintenance have yet to be
developed. While the development of tertiary systems is the responsibility of
the farmers and local committees, the MPW is supposed to provide technical
assistance and in some cases construct the tertiaries.
1.16      Recent Government policies to support O&M and cost recovery
stipulate that WUAs should be given responsibilities for O&M, subject to
constraints imposed by systems' technical characteristics and administrative
boundaries. These policies imply that in addition to the WUAs' primary
responsibility of taking care of O&M of tertiary systems, farmer beneficiaries
through their WUAs share the costs and responsibilities for O&M of the main
systems, and that simple and smaller systems be turned over to WUAs for O&M.
The effective implementation of these policies calls for the execution of a
sound policy for developing WUAs, increased farmers' participation in the
decision-making process involving design, special maintenance and O&M resource
allocation, effective coordination mechanisms among WUAs and field staff of
concerned agencies, as well as strengthening of O&M field staff and Irrigation
Committees, and these would be supported by the proposed project.
O&M Practices
1.17      Some of the minor maintenance needs can be met by regular weeding or
grass cutting, greasing or lubrication, and some removal of sediment upstream
of measuring structures. Other maintenance work involves repair of major bank
failures, removal of accumulation of sediment in large canals and in beds and
sand traps which are not easily removed by flushing, and reconstruction of
civil works and equipment damaged by chemical action, volcanic or seismic
activity, and major floods. This category of works needs systematic surveys,
investigations, planning and design before reconstruction can be implemented,
and is considered as heavy maintenance. When some deterioration has occurred
and repairs are required to bring systems up to full effectiveness, a special
maintenance program is required before an efficient maintenance program can be
implemented.
1.18      There are widely differing O&M practices among and within provinces,
rcflecting differences in pressure on available water supplies,
infrastructure, staffing levels and quality, and facilities. While individual
schemes vary widely in physical condition and operational capability, most
weirs and intakes require structural repairs, many gates need replacement,
most canals suffer from excessive silt deposition and loss of capacity, and
tertiary systems are generally inadequate to achieve the full benefits of
irrigation. Some areas have no O&M manuals and no discernible guidelines or
understanding of water management. At the most basic *vel, there is no
measurement of discharges in rivers or canals, collect in of rainfall or crop
data, or attempt to match tertiary unit water supply    crop water
requirements.  There is need to standardize at least   ta collection and water
scheduling practices among provinces for efficient 0.  and equitable water
distribution.  Additional training of section O&M ant design staff is also
needed to improve their appreciation and capability tor tertiary network
design and water management at subsection and juru level.



-8-
Staffing and Facilities
1.19      Most PRIS headquarters appear to be overstaffed compared to the
estimated requirements, though some have less than the required engineer-le;el
senior staff. On the other hand, there is inadequacy of staff members and
quality, particularly at the district and lower levels. Additional pengamats
and *urus, who play a crucial role in the case of O&M activities, are
needed. A program of construction of pengamat offices was implemented in the
1970s, and a large number of juru and gate operator housing has been
constructed in many provinces. There are, however, still many shortcomings
with respect to housing for field level staff and also facilities such as gate
shelters, storage areas for stoplogs, and handling gear. Lack of transport
for irrigation staff is also a serious impediment to the introduction of
efficient O&M procedures. Jurus use bicycles as their day-to-day mode of
transportation and pengamats are generally provided with motorcycles, but
their staff usually lack any form of transport to carry out regular checking
of system maps and inventories for operation and maintenance. These problems
are even more severe at section level. There is also a need for more radio
and telecommunication equipment to speed up efficient operation and reduce
damage to canals and structures during floods.
Staff Training
1.20      Training for all Public Works staff is coordinated by PUSDIKLAT
(Center for Training and Education) within MPW. In DGWRD, the BDP is the
representative office of the PUSDIKLAT. The BDP is responsible for
coordinating the training of kanwil (regional office of MPW) and PRIS staff.
The BDP is also supposed to coordinate the training of water user groups and
farmers, through other directorates. Recently concluded and on-going training
programs have included training of middle level and lower level officials from
the MPW, MOA and MHA, as well as key members of WUAs and selected key farmers,
and have comprised degree and non-degree programs, short training couirses, and
in-service and on-the-job project specific training. The Bank-financed
Irrigation XVI Project (Loan 2118-IND) assisted with the establishment in 1983
of a water users training project to improve the tertiary and quaternary level
of management. Other projects (including Irrigation XVII - Ln. 2119-IND and
Second Provincial Irrigation - Ln. 2375-IND) have provided training for main
systems O&M. However, some of the constraints which persist are: (a) lack of
follow-up training and feedback on the impact of training; (b) inadequate
emphasis on the details of training modules (e.g. farmers' training modules
include too many topics, ranging from soil erosion and environmental aspects
to post-harvest technology); and (c) lack of focus in training co facilitate
proper organization and strengthening of water users' associations. In
addition to addressing these constraints, programs need to be implemented to
provide training in basic O&M procedures (Annex 3, Table 1) along the lines of
a program currently under way in East Java, with emphasis on mobile teams of
trainers rather than on bringing the trainees to a central training location.



- 9 -
E. O&M Funding and Cost Recovery
O&M Funding
1.21      The section heads of the Provincial Public Works (DPU) within each
of the provinces prepare annually a budget request for O&M by January 1 for
the following fiscal year beginning April 1. The estimated budgetary require-
ments are based upon the section engineer's survey of the condition of all
irrigation works and his judgement of what he considers is needed for adequate
O&M of the irrigation systems within his section. The total of all O&M budget
requests for the province, along with the budget requests for about 18 public
sectors, are reviewed by provincial officials. In practice, the O&M
allocation to each section is decided by the Provincial Development Planning
Agency (BAPPEDAS) in each province largely on the basis of funds available,
rather than on estimated reluirements.
1.22      Two major channels for GOI funding of irrigation O&M are:
(i) INPRES-APBD funds, which are allocated from Central Government through the
MHA to the Provincial Covernorrs, who decide on the allocations for O&M;
(ii) DIP-APBN, which are for similar purposes as INPRES-APBD funds, i.e.,
office running costs, transport costs, material costs, and annual maintenance
work, but are allocated from Central Government funds, earmarked for the MPW,
to the district or section offices. Provincial governments also allocate
their own funds (DIK) to cover the routine salaries of province-based civil
servants (para. 1.24). Direct DIP-APBN funding for O&M of irrigation systems
was introduced in 1984/85 for some projects which had undergone
rehabilitation, As a result, the development budget, which should normally be
for financing investment expenditures, also provides financing for recurrent
expenditures such as O&M. Thus the major issues to be addressed in funding
mechanisms are concerned with simplifying and rationalizing the O&M
programming and budgeting procedures, whereby needs-based allocations for O&M
can be made and the different channels of funding rationalized.
1.23      Since 1976, the level of funding for O&M (from Central Government)
has increased in nominal terms from an average of about Rp 2,000/ha to abouc
Rp 9,000/ha in 1985/86, equivalent to a real increase of about 20% during this
period. The peak level of support for O&M was in 1985/86, when Rp 46.4 billion
(APBD-Rp 32.4 billion and APBN-Rp 14 billion) was provided for O&M. This was
followed by a curtailment of O&M funding to Rp 39.9 billion (APBD-Rp 31.8
billion and APBN-Rp 8.1 billion) in 1986/87, due to severe budgetary
constraints (Annex 5, Table 1). The average of APBD and APBN funding in
1986/87 for the provinces selected for efficient O&M (Annex 5, Table 2) under
the proposed project was only about Rp 10,000/ha, and the level of allocation
varied considerably among the provinces. For example, Yogyakarta was
allocated an average of Rp 13,338/ha, while South Sumatra was allocated only
Rp 5,848/ha. These wide differences reflect the availability of resources and
varying provincial priorities rather than the actual requirements for
efficient O&M.
1.24      Another source of funding for O&M is DIK, which are allocations by
provincial governments from their own funds purely to cover the routine
salaries of province-based civil servants. However, the precise amount of DIK



- 10 -
used fur O&14 is not clear. Based on data gathered from a few provinces, it is
estimated that an average of about Rp 3,700/ha is used for O&M (Annex 5,
Table 2). Thus, the overall level of funding from all three sources in the
selected provinces was about Rp 13,000/ha in 1986/87 which was less than half
the estimated expenditure of Rp 25,000-30,000/ha required for efficient O&M.
This estimate of the expenditure level required for efficient O&M is based on
studies by Gadjah Mada University (1980), West Cirebon study (1983), and
estimates made under the Bank-financed East Java Irrigation Project (1986).
These studies also indicate that between 45 and 50% of O&M funds should be
used for construction, compared to only about 25% of actual O&M expenditures
being presently used for construction work. Most available O&M funds are used
to cover administrative expenses, which is not an effective utilization of
these funds.
Cost Reco vety
1.25      Irrigation Service Fee.  Farmers are responsible for the O&M of only
the tertiary systems, and they contribute to O&M in part through their own
work and mostly through payment in kind. To date, cost recovery for main and
secondary systems has been through the system of land tax (para. 1.27). With
a tight budgetary situation, which makes it difficult even to maintain the
present level of Central Government budgetary support for O&M, and a growing
awareness and need for O&M funding, attention is increasingly being given to
the introduction of an irrigation service fee. Such a fee would offer many
advantages. It can be geared to the actual financial requirements for O&M in
specific irrigation systems and be implemented in such a way that there is a
direct connection between payment of the fee and the provision of the O&M
service. Indonesian farmers seem willing to pay increased fees if the
benefits of the work being finai.ced are clearly visible to them. The
establishment of such fees would further be an important factor in encouraging
farmers to get more involved in the O&M process for their systems. In future,
water users might be willing to take much greater responsibility for their
systems if this would allow them to avoid externally imposed service fees in
favor of inte.~nal fees levied by WUAs to finance operations decided on by the
WUAs themselves.
1.26      There have already been some initiatives towards collecting
irrigation service fees. In South Sulawesi province, a fee has been collected
in the Sadang irrigation area (25,000 ha) for tha last five years. Recently,
the provincial government in S-ath Sulawesi has formulated an ordinance to
introduce the fee on a province-wide basis. A small fee (about
Rp 1,000/ha/year) has been collected, together with other village taxes and
contributions, in the Simulungan irrigation system in North Sumatra. A fee
has also been collected in Bali. However, these limited initiatives do not
provide an adequate basis for an immediate launching of a nationwide system of
irrigation service fees. The concept, whether it should be a per hectare
charge or explicit water charges on bulk sales to water users, the farmers'
payment capacity to determine the appropriate level of fee, and the
organizational arrangements needed for collection of the fee, all would be
worked out and implemented on a pilot scale under the proposed project.



- 11 -
1.27      Land Tax.  In the past, GOI has not pursued a policy of having an
irrigation service fee, because of its (a) reluctance to tax overtly a rural
sector considered (particularly in the 1970s) to be extremely poor, i.e. a
reluctance to go beyond the taxation already implicit in the low administered
rice price during that period; and (b) sensitivity to certain traditional
sentiments that water provided by nature should be free. Cost recovery from
the farmers has been through the land tax (IPEDA), which is assessed on the
basis of land classification. Its structure and categories have disitinguished
between farmers in irrigated and non-irrigated areas, and hence between
beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries of irrigation services. However, the
IPEDA revenues have not matched O&M costs because of low land valuations, low
tax rates, and imperfect collection rates. Moreover, the IPEDA is a major
revenue source for local governments and is used to fund many local
activities. Therefore, only a small portion of it was, in any event, to be
used for O&M of irrigation facilities. The Bank through its various lending
operations to the irrigation subsector has supported an improvement in cost
recovery through reclassification of irrigated lands to reflect their higher
potential productivity. An allocation of the additional amounts collected for
O&M of the irrigation systems was first made under the Bank-financed West
Tarum Canal Improvement Project (Ln. 2560-IND).
1.28      ln 1986, GOI introduced a tax for land and buildings, the PBB (based
on the actual market value of land), which replaced the IPEDA (based on the
productivity of land), and also the wealth tax and the urban household tax.
At present, the rural PBB is estimated to be about Rp 60 billion, of which
less than 15% is allocated towards O&M. The objectives of the tax reform are
to strengthen the revenue base of the provincial and local governments and to
improve the overall equity of property taxation. To implement this tax
reform, land reclassification and valuation are needed, and the tax collection
mechanisms have to be in place and strengthened. The proposed project would
support these, whereby the incremental revenues from the increased valuation
of land would help reduce the dependence of the provincial and local
governments on financial transfers from the central government, and contribute
towards generation of local revenues which are at least somewhat related to
the magnitude of the O&M responsibilities of the provincial and local
governments. However, the PBB would not be a fee for specific services
rendered, and it would continue to be regarded as a general source of revenue
of local governments for development purposes, but not as a routine O&M
fund.
F. Irrigation Development Strategy, Issues and Investment Programs
Subsector Issues and Strategy
1.29      In the last couple of years, Government has been taking steps
towards scaling back major expansions in the irrigation subsector, directing
increased resourcea towards O&M, and expediting the completion of priority and
viable ongoing project3. The Bank and Asian Development Bank (ADB) have also
been restructuring their ongoing projects to protect activities of highest
priority. These are steps in the right direction which should help Covernment
cope with the budgetary crisis. However, a sustained development of the
irrigation subsector requires a medium-term strategy which will entail



- 12 -
addressing some of the underlying issues in the sector. First, there is need
for an in-depth review of the technical and economic viability of all existing
and proposed irrigation investment programs. The purpose of this review would
be to restructure and rationalize projects as necessary, establish priorities
for irrigation investment, and finalize preparation of a realiotic subsector
strategy for Repelita V (1988/89-1993/94), taking into account the likely
availability of funds from different sources, as well as implementation
capacity. While there seems little prospect of major increase in rice
production on the 1.2 million ha of recently rehabilitated large systems on
Java, four potential sources of growth in the medium to long term could be:
(a) technical systems on Java not yet rehabilitated and upgraded; (b) existing
semi-technical and simple systems on Java; (c) existing systems on the Outer
Islands, including upgrading and further development of irrigation command
areas, and reclaimed swamps; and (d) possible new systems on the Outer Islands
(prospects for which are mixed). Second, as indicated earlier in paras.
1.18-1,20 and 1.24, widespread deficiencies in system operation and
maintenance (O&M) are major constraints to irrigation development. This issue
is related to inadequate O&M funding levels and to the capacity of the
irrigation services to use efficiently the funds provided. Most available O&M
funds are used now to cover administrative expenses, with only a quarter of
actual expenditures being used for construction work. Increased budget
allocations thus need to be accompanied by progressive system-by-system
formulation of detailed O&M work plans, training of irrigation staff, and
regular supervision and control of administrative costs. Third, as pointed
out in paras. 1.15 and 1.25-1.28, inactive and weak WUAs which are unable to
assun.e responsibility for O&M, inadequate cost recovery and low levels of
local revenue generation for financing O&M are constraints that have become
more important with the rapid deterioration in GOI's financial situation.
Fourth, the water balance in Java, with competing demands from agricultural,
municipal and industrial users, is becoming critical, which highlights the
need for increased emphasis on multi-purpone management of water resources,
increased irrigation efficiencies, And appropriate allocation of supplies.
Investment Programs
1.30      The ongoing public sector investment in irrigation includes new
irrigation works, rehabilitation of old projects, groundwater development to
facilitate crop diversification and to provide rural domestic water supplies,
and river control works to provide water supplies for irrigation and municipal
uses and for flood control and hydropower generation. Public investment also
includes rehabilitation and reclamation of swamps (tidal and non-tidal), and
planning, training and research for all subsector activities. The indicative
investment program under Repelita IV (1984/85 to 1988/89) was to 'indertake
rehabilitation of old irrigation systems commanding a total area of 360,000 ha,
undertake new irrigation construction to provide water to 600,000 ha, carry
out new construction and rehabilitation works on swamps benefitting 460,000 ha,
and a program of flood protection and conservation on 500,000 ha. These
program targets have turned out to be ambitious. On the basis of works
completed thus far and the current cutbacks in the program due to budgetary
constraints, it appears that only 40% of the target for rehabilitation, 30% of
new irrigation development, 25% of swamp development and about 50% of the
flood protection and conservation targets will be achieved by the end of the



- 13 -
plan period (Annex 6, Table 1). The financial performance has more or less
paralleled the physical performance (Annex 6, Table 2). For all subsectors,
the anticipated shortfall in investment expenditures from that originally
planned for Repelita IV will be about Rp 4,200 billion or 67%. The shortfall
in GOI expenditures will be 77%, while the shortfall in expenditures financed
by external loans will be much less at 43%. In other words, the Government
has not been able to keep up with its planned share of financing of the
irrigation subsector investment program.
1.31      In view of its budgetary constraints, the Goverriment has not only
been unable to maintain its planned sharing of the cost of projects being
financed in part by external borrowing, but has also not been able to finance
on an adequate basis the expanding O&M requirements. OEM expenditures are
only about one-third to one-half of those required. Nevertheless, the
Government has been taking significant steps towards allocating an increasing
share of its limited available resources in the subsector for O&M and (until
1986/87) providing increasing allocations for O&M, as shown below:
Table 1.1: SUBSECTOR INVESTMENT IN RELATION TO O&M EXPENDITURES
(Rp billion)
3&M as
0&M Expenditures             percent of
Year      Investment   Index   APBD         APBN       Total   Index   Investment
1984/85      644.7        100       30.7      13.4     44.1      100         6.8
1985/86      584.5         91       32.4      14.0     46.4      105         7.9
1986/87      386.1         60       31.8       8.1      39.9      90        10.3
1.32      While the need for increased funding for O&M is fully recognized,
the Covernment, nevertheless, has continued to make further commitments for
externally financed projects. Since the beginning of Repelita IV (1984/85),
the Government has commenced 21 new projects, partially funded by its three
major lenders (World Bank, ADB and Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF))
for a total of US$936 million, which carry a GOI financial commitment
equivalent to US$506 million. The breakdown of these commitments by major
lending agencies is shown in the following table:



- 14 -
Table 1.2: 0O0's COMMITMENTS FOR EXTERNALLY FINANCED PROJECTS
(commencing 1984/85)
No. of                Loan                Local funds
Lending Agency          Projects               amounts              t lquirements
- (US$ million) 
World Bank                    5                    475                    293
Other major external
financiers                 16                    461                    213
Total                   21                     936                    506
1.33      A list of all ongoing externally financed projects is given in
Annex 6, Tables 4-7. As will be noted, seven of these projects were to have
been completed in 1985 and 1986. The total loan amount on these seven
projects was US$345.7 million, of which US$248.3 million had been spent up to
January 1, 1987, leaving a balance of US$97.4 million (28Z of the original
loan amount). A summary of all ongoing external loans is given below:
Table 1.3. ONGOING (PARTIALLY EXTERNALLY FINANCED) PROJECTS
Total loan         Spent to       Balance
Lending Agency   No. of projects        amounts             1/1/87        of loans
(US$ million)                      
World Bank                  12              1,025.4          432.4           593.0
Other major external
financiers               37               1,156.2          289.3          866.9
Total                  49              2,181.6           721.7        1,459.9
1.34      An examination of investment expenditures realized and budgeted for
Repelita IV clearly illustrates the growing magnitude of the Government's
problem in meeting its commitments for the financing of irrigation development
(see Annex 6, Table 2 for breakdown of expenditure by major category of
investment). As a result, the Government has reduced its total irrigation
development program, relied more heavily on foreign borrowings, and
drastically reduced the number of projects under execution with solely GOI
financing. In 1985/86, DGWRD was implementing 202 projects. This number was
reduced to 177 in 1986/87, and further reduced to 130 in 1987/88. However,
under the proposed project, only about 40 priority on-going projects would be



- 15 -
completed, and the others would be further reviewed by GOI to evaluate the.1
technical and economic viability. Most of the projects removed from the
program have been placed on a 'hold' basis, with continuing expenditures onl.
for personnel.  In short, GOI hat begun to cake steps toWards puttinig the
irrigationl subsector on a sounder footing.  This is evident from ils:
(a) reorientation of priorities away from large-scale new investmerlts itn
irrigatioti towards increased expenditures on O&M; (b) focus on the completioll
of technically and economically viable ongoing projects; and (c) rephasin,- am,
restructuring of ongoing projects (including partially externally-financed
projects) to protect high priority activities whilr accommodating reduced
budgetary resources over the medium term.
C.  Bank Role and Subsector Lendiu_St rateS
General
1.35      The irrigation subsector has received a major part of Bank lending
for Indonesian agriculture over the past two decades, and the Bank has been
the largest external financier of Indonesia's irrigation program, providing a
total of some $1.5 billion for 23 projects since 1968.  The Asian Developmenw
Bank, Japan, Netherlands, USA, UK and EEC have been other importantL doniors.
The earliest Bank-assisted projects were designed to repair major systems to
increase rice output quickly. The Bank's strategy in Repelita IV, however,
was redirected to emphasize institution-building, with lending being focused
on: new irrigation projects outside Java; flood control and drainage works;
groundwater development in areas with limited dry season water supplies; and
investments for multi-stage swamp reclamation and development in support of
COI's transmigration program. The most recent projects include measures te
strengthen planning, programmiag, budgeting and management information
systems, and to build up the capacity of provincial irrigation services in
design and construction supervision of small systems and to improve O&M
performance. A further redirection of the Bank's role is required to support
,OI's efforts to concentrate its resources on completing high-priority and
viable on-going projects and undertaking only selecti.e new investments, to
make adequate provision for operation and maintenance throughout the
subsector, to promote farmers' participation in rehabilitation and O&M of
small systems, and to reduce GOI's fiscal burden through appropriate cost
recovery measures. A project-by-project approach by the Bank on these issues
is no longer considered adequate, and it is time to address policy issues
systematically on a subsector-wide basis, complemented by specific involverfrexit
in projects as warranted.
Experience Under Previous Projects
1.36      The first 11 Bank-assisted irrigation projects have been
completed. Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been issued for six
of them, and a follow-up Impact Evaluation Report on the first project (Cr. J27-
IND, Report No. 4575) was released in July 1983. improvements to irrigation
water supplies and drainage introduced through the projects had a substantial
positive impact on paddy technoLogy, cropping intensities and yields, and
thereby favorably affected incomes of the vast majority of farmers within the



- 16 -
irrigation command areas. The projects have been economically viable, with
ERRs at completion ranging from 11% to 37%. There were some implementation
delays and cost overruns, caused by protracted procurement procedures, delays
in channelling of local funds, higher than expected inflation, design
deficiencies, and poor contractor performance. More recently, the delayed
approval and reduced size of budgets have further contributed to project
implementation delays and slow disbursement of Bank loans.  The earlier
performance audits highlighted the need to improve O&M services, provide
technical and administrative support to water users' associations, and promote
efficient water use. In the past, the Bank-financed irrigation projects have
supported cost recovery through collertion of adjusted land tax based on the
increased productivity of all irrigated land served by the systems
rehabilitated and constructed under these projects. Actual cost recovery
through land tax has not satisfied the intentions of the various covenants
insofer as the amounts collected have continued to fall short of O&M costs,
and only a small fraction of these amounts has actually been allocated to
f½nance irrigation-related C " activities.  The most recent audits have
emphasized the need for more -ction on the cost recovery front (particularly
through direct charges) and betLer analysis of the viability of investments
and farmers' ability to pay, both of which have been affected by falling world
market prices for rice. These problems are recognized in the strategy adopted
for Bank assistance and have been addressed in the planning and design of the
proposed project.
11. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1       The Bank, through ongoing projects and a continuing dialogue with
the Government in the subsector, has been playing a key role in supporting
decentralization of responsibilities to provincial irrigation services, and in
resolving difficult institutional issues such as water management; project
preparation, implementation and O&M capabilities; and funding at provincial
levels. The subsector approach proposed under the project, supported by GOI's
enunciation of policies aimed at improving O&M of irrigation systems, reducing
the burden of O&M expenditures on the Central Government, and consolidating
investments in the subsector would reinforce and provide a much-deferred and
critically needed national approach to O&Mo This would help widen the
development impact of the Bank's assistance by reinforcing the shift in
responsibility for O&M funding and implementation from central to provincial
authorities and to ultimate beneficiaries, further strengthen the institutions
responsible for irrigation policy and resource allocation, prevent
deterioration of the substantial irrigation infrastructure, increase the
productivity of completed investments, and help develop a future investment
strategy in the subsector. In view of its past and ongoing involvement in the
subsector and GOI's readiness now to tackle significant subsector issues, the
Bank is well placed to help GOT implement relevant subsector policy and
institutional adjustments.



- 17 -
B. Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
2.2       The project would be the f rst phase of a program aimed at
supporting the six basic goals outlined in GOI's Statement on Irrigation
Subsector Policy (Annex 1) which are to: (a) ensure adequate and timely
funding for efficient O&M, with expenditures in line with actual needs of each
irrigation system; (b) simplify O&M programming, monitoring and budget
planning; (c) introduce direct cost recovery for O&M expenditures from
irrigation beneficiaries; (d) increase local revenue generation through land
reclassification, valuation, and training of assessors; (e) support
institutional development, particularly by strengthening provincial irrigation
agencies, WUAs and farmers' groups to enable a greater transfer of
responsibility for O&M of main and secondary systems to provincial authorities
and of smaller systems to WUAs; and (f) formulate a realistic irrigation
investment strategy for Repelita V. Detailed policies have been formulated
for each of these goals, and a monitorable Action Plan (Annex 1) designed to
implement the steps necessary to achieve them. The Action Plan would set in
motion a process of improvement in the areas of O&M funding, rationalization
of budgeting/programming procedures and investment strategy, cost recovery,
and institutional strengthening, which once instituted would involve policy
decisions and commitments that are unlikely to be reversed.
2.3       The project has high priority in GOI's development plans and is in
line with the Bank's strategy for assisting agricultural development in
Indonesia.
Project Description
2.4       The project, to be implemented over the 3-year period from October 1987
to September 1990, would consist of the following components:
(a) The implementation of special maintenance works, comprising deferred
maintenance and minor systems upgrading, on about 400,000 ha of
irrigated land and about 106,000 ha of reclaimed swamp land, where
O&M has been so badly neglected that this must be done as a step
prior to intzoducing efficient O&M on these areas. About five river
mouths would also be included for special maintenance, on a pilot
basis. Detailed preparation and design work would be carried out
for about 200,000 ha of irrigated areas and 55,500 ha of swamps
requiring special maintenance to be covered in the first year of a
subsequent project;
(b) Systematic introduction of efficient O&M on about 7009000 ha of
irrigated land, and 87,000 ha of swamp land;
(c) Completion of about 40 high-prio 'ty ongoing projects selected on
the basis of agreed technical a   economic criteria;



- 18 -
(d)  Pilot groundwater development through construction of some 900
tubewells for small farmers in primarily rainfed areas;
(e) Support for COI's policy reforms in the subsector, including
privatization of small public irrigation systems, a pilot scheme for
introduction of direct irrigation service fees, and augmenting the
provincial/local revenues in lieu of continued central government
subsidies via land reclassification and valuation needed for large-
scale introduction of the new property tax (PBB) in rural areas;
(f) Support for institutional strengthening and training, including O&M
manpower planning and developmentt strengthening of the central,
provincial and district level institutions responsible for
irrigation O&M, and of water users' associations; and
(g) Technical assistance and studies in support of the above components.
The underpinning for the proposed project is provided by an agreed:
Xi) Subsector Policy Statement (Annex 1) defining GOT's new policy objectives
and approaches; and (ii) Action Plan (Annex 1) of measures to be taken during
the project period to initiate longer-term reforms a1id improvements in support
of the policy objectives. Some of the key actions to be taken over the three-
year period are: (a) the present level of nation-wide irrigation O&M financing
would be at least maintained in real terms during the project period, and
incremental financing for O&M (of at least US$1.6 million equivalent, as
included in GOI's financing plan) would be provided by GOI (para. 3.14);
(c) small systems of less than 150 ha in size, covering an area of 20,400 ha
would be privatized (turned over to WUAs) over the three-year period, at least
two systems of about 500 ha size would be turned over, and a nationwide
program prepared by September 30, 1990 for turnover of systems larger than 150
ha (paras. 2.19 and 2.20); (c) collection of irrigation service fee in the
pilot areas (a total of 125,000 ha) would commence in December 31, 1988, and
agreed administrative and judicial arrangements (as found to be workable in
pilot areas) wo-.d be established by January 31, 1990, for its extension to
other areas (para. 2.22); (d) budgetary procedures and accounts would be
simplified by June 30, 1988, and new systems and procedures for O&M
programming and budget planning implemented from FY89/90 onwards (para. 3.13);
and (e) investments in the irrigation subsector would be rationalized and a
strategy for Repelita V prepared (para. 2.11). GOI has recently issued the
Subsector Policy Statement and Action Plan, approved by all the concerned
ministries (Agriculture, Finance, Home Affairs, Public Works and BAPPENAS).
The project would be implemented in accordance with this Policy Statment and
the Action Plan reviewed and agreed with the Bank (Para 7.1 (a)).
C. Detailed Features
Special Maintenance
2.5       Surface Irrigation Systems.  The project would carry out special
maintenance works on selected surface irrigation systems to bring these
systems up to the technical standards for which an efficient maintenance
program can be designed and implemented. This would include completion of the
system maps of irrigation canals, updating of the structures' inventories,
elimination or regularization of any water outlet not borne on the original



- 19 -
inventory, repairing water control structures and their regulating mechanisms,
and improving structures such as bridges, cross drains and silt control
facilities which need repairs. It would also involve functional improvements
such as discharge measuring structures where required for improving water
distribution control and efficiency, and repairing canal prisms and
embankments to ensure smooth flow and adequate free boards. The project would
also provide housing for operational staff and transport for section
offices. Criteria for selection of schemes included for special maintenance
have been based on size, rehabilitation and tertiary development status, and
availability of mapping and records. In general, rehabilitated technical
systems larger than 500 ha, which have deteriorated due to lack of
maintenance, would be included under special maintenance. About 400,000 ha of
irrigation systems in the nine provinces of West and South Sumatra, Lampung,
West, Central and East Java, Yogyakarta, South Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggara
would be covered under the project, with a phasing of 75,000 ha in Year 1
(October 1, 1987 - September 30, 1988) 175,000 ha in Year 2 (October 1, 1988 -
September 30, 1989) and 150,000 ha in Year 3 (October 1, 1989 - September 30,
1990). The project would alao provide technical assistance to support
implementation of this component (para. 2.12).
2.6       Saamp Systems,  The project would assist in carrying out special
maintenance works on selected swamp schemes. These works would include
additional canal structures, desilting of drainage canals, flood protection
works, access improvement, and construction of additional flushing canals
where necessary for reclaiming acidic soils. Since the normal development of
swamp areas involves a gradual process of improvement and upgrading over the
years, the special maintenance program would be tailored to each scheme and
involve both maintenance and upgrading activities. The project would ensure
that there is a systematic planning at each stage so that the organization,
methods and expenditures on O&M are geared to meeting the performance
standards specified for the systems as they are developed. The schemes
proposed for inclusion in the project would be in the five provinces of West,
North and South Sumatra, Lampung, and South Kalimantan, which include some of
the earliest reclaimed areas. About 21,800 ha in Year 1, 43,800 ha in Year 2,
and 39,950 ha in Year 3 would be brought under special maintenance.
Feasibility studies would be carried out to establish the technical and
economic viabil-ty of constructing a 40 km long flushing canal in South
Kalimantan to inrprove the water control and agricultural potential of the
Belawang, Seluang and Muhur schemes. The project would also provide technical
assistance in support of this component (para. 2.13).
2.7       Small River Mouths.  The project would test alternative and
effective measures to replace the traditional dredging methods used to control
siltation and littoral drift, which choke and obstruct navigation of small
fishing vessels and cause flooding of agricultural lands and coastal
settlements near river mouths. To explore the most cost-effective technical
solution, five river mouths in North and West Sumatra, West, Central and East
Java would be included on a pilot basis under the project for protection by
experimental training walls. Studies have been made during the project
preparation stage to evaluate the choking process from littoral drift. The
design of the training walls and the ancillary works including guide banks and
approach channels would incorporate the knowledge gained from these



- 20 -
observations. Further observations on the performance of training walls and
the ancillary works in the prevention of choking river mouths would be
continued for about two years after construction of the proposed works. This
would help gauge their effectiveness before their application to other sites
in future progrdms.
Efficient O&M
2.8       Surface Irrigation Systems.  The objectives of special maintenance
are to facilitate t,ie introduction of efficient O&M. General procedures for
efficient O&M have already been developed for a number of systems in
Indonesia, but their application is hampered by lack of up-to-date inventories
and specific O&M guidelines, system shortcomings, and continuing
organizational and funding constraints. The project would address these
constraints systematically on 200,000 ha of irrigation systems in Year 1,
400,000 ha in Year 2 and 700,000 ha in Year 3. The areas covered under
special maintenance each year under the project would be included under
efficient O&M in the subsequent year. Also, some areas currently being
rehabilitated under ongoing Bank and ADB-financed projects would be included
in the second and third years. The physical repair and maintenance work to be
regularly carried out by provincial authorities under efficient O&M would
include weed clearance from canal prisms and embankments, trimming overgrown
canal berms, repairing potholes in canal roads, damages to masonry structures
and leakag.'s through canal banks, lubrication and repairing of regulation
gates, and painting of steel work. Repair work of periodic nature would
include silt clearance of canals, regrading of canal profiles, and repairs to
canal surface roads damaged by heavy rains and regular heavy traffic.
Laboratory and field equipment for provincial irrigation offices, for testing
appropriateness of construction materials and standards would be provided
under the project. The efficient O&M procedures to be followed are outlined
in Annex 3, Table 1. These procedures would be supported by ensuring adequacy
of staff responsible for O&M at section and subsection levels, clear
definition of their duties and responsibilities, and their training in
maintenance work identification, water scheduling, discharge measurements, and
data collection and reporting.
2.9       Swamp Systems.  About 9,000 ha of swamps in South Sumatra in Year 1,
another 33,200 ha in South Sumatra and Lampung in Year 2, and an additional
44,600 ha in South Sumatra, Lampung, South Kalimantan, North and West Sumatra
in Year 3 (a cumulative area of 86,800 ha) would be covered by efficient O&M
under the project. These areas include the Karang Agung I scheme (9,000 ha)
in the first year of the project, the construction of which is currently being
completed with Bank assistance (Ln. 1958-IND), and also the completed units of
Karang Aguwg II scheme (Ln. 1431-IND), i.e. about 5,000 ha in the second year
and another 5,000 ha in the third year of the project. About 6,500 ha in
Barambai and Rantau Rassu would be reviewed by DGWRD to confirm that these
schemes, which are currently being upgraded, are suitable for introduction of
efficient O&M. If found suitable, these could be included under a possible
future Bank operation. Immediately after the completion of special
maintenance, the schemes would be formally handed over to the provincial
authorities for the introduction of efficient O&M. A schedule for handing
over the projects to the provincial authorities is included in Annex 2,



- 21 -
Table 5. The provincial authorities would be assisted by DCWRD during a
1-2 year transition period in organizing the technical aspects and
establishing a sound institutional framework for O&M. DCWRD would also review
the existing categorization of the drainage canals in each scheme, on the
basis of which a more uniform nomenclature would be applied to all the
existing and new swamp schemes.
2.10      The O&M requirements for swamp systems include monitoring,
evaluation, data collection and analysis, and regular or periodic maintenance
of infrastructure for drainage, flood protection, irrigation and water
conservation, control of soil conditions through water management, and on-farm
water management. As in the case of surface irrigation systems, technical
assistance and advisory services (paras. 2.12 and 2.13) would be provided
under the project to DGWRD and provincial authorities for planning and
construction of special maintenance works and for Lhe introduction of
efficient O&M on swamps. These services would be integrated with the ongoing
program in South Sumatra, which the Bank is supporting under the Swamps II Project
(Ln. 2431-IND) and for which consultants have been hired to define O&M
requirements, specifications, organizational arrangements, procedures, plans
of operation, and O&M budgets. The consultants to be employed under the
proposed project would build on the work undertaken under the Swamps II
project to ensure that uniform O&M strategies would be developed for all
swamps projects.
Completion of Ongoing Projects
2.11      The proposed project would support the completion of only priority
on-going projects which are viable and have so far been wholly funded by GOI
but are now held up for lack of funds. These projects would be selected from
a list of more than 100 ongoing projects and would have high priority in a
resource-constrained situation. The selection criteria for these projects
have included the status of project completion (at least 30%), adequate water
availability and quality, minimal land clearing required, contribution to
transmigration and settlement plans, adequacy of planning and design, length
of construction period, and technical and economic feasibility. Of the 16
projects selected for implementation commencing in Year 1, 12 are irrigation
projects, 3 are rivers projects, and I swamps project. Details of these
projects are included in Annex 2, Table 6. Another 20-25 ongoing projects
would be selected for completion in the second year of the project. Some
ongoing projects have been under implementation since 1976, while others have
been started only in Repelita IV. Construction on most of these projects has
proceeded on a piecemeal basis, using annual budget allocations. Headworks
have usually been completed and since many of the ongoing proiects have
already incurred substantial costs, there can be tremendous economic benefits
in completing them with a relatively small incremental investment, provided
they are technically sound. The selected projects are mostly run-of-river
schemes with a weir for headworks and conventional canal systems. In some of
the schemes, the weirs need substaitial closure embankments to encompass flat
overflow areas before the water can be headed up for irrigation. In all
cases, it is necessary to review the planning and design of the schemes,
including drawings, bills of quantities and engineering estimates, before
continuing with construction, This could lead to some revisions or additions



- 22 -
in some cases because of changes in concept to suit revised water availability
or requirements. Detailed preparatory work, including review of engineering,
planning and design, and preparation of tender documents and revised cost
estimates, have been completed for the 16 projects to be undertaken in the
first year of implementation. Upon completion of the on-going projects, DGWRD
staff presently assigned to these projects would be transferred to PRIS to
strengthen the provincial engineering services. The existing project
selection criteria would be reviewed and improved upon, and an assessment mase
of all the existing and proposed investment projects in the irrigation
subsector, as a part of the Investment Strategy study, to be carried out under
the project (para. 2.35 (b)). During the implementation of this study, the
Bank would review and comment on the acceptability of the criteria and the
investment strategy. It has been agreed that GOI would submit to the Bank in
a timely manner, its annual investment program for the FY88/89, FY89/90 and
FY90/91.
2.12      Consultancy services in support of the above components (special
anaintenance, efficient O&M, and completion of ongoing projects) would be
provided under the project to upgrade and strengthen provincial capabilities
.n: (a) preparation of sample designs, guidelines and criteria for special
uaintenance and efficient O&M; (b) prequalification, selection and supervision
of local subconsultants who will be assigned to prepare other special
maintenance surveys and designs, after the sample designs have been prepared
by the consultants; and (c) supervision of construction. To assist in
implementing the special maintenance and efficient 3&M program for the
irrigation systems in nine provinces, Jatiluhur authority and district of
Jogyakarta, one internationally recruited and two local consultants, would be
attached with each of them. Their specializations would be in construction
and operation of canal irrigation and drainage, with a good knowledge of soil
engineering, materials specifications, concrete and masonry structures,
quality control measures, laboratory field tests and contract administration.
In addition, a team of four internationally recruited and eight local
consultants would assist the provinces in reviewing designs produced by the
subconsultants for special maintenance and upgrading the capability of
provincial staff in water distribution and regulation. A total of 324
manmonths of internationally recruited consultancy (11 experts) and 756
manmonths of local consultancy (26 experts) would thus be provided for the
above purposes. In addition, for the small river mouths works, the project
would provide 21 manmonths of internationally recruited consultants (2 experts
with knowledge of river morphology particularly in estuary areas, and
specialization in river training work) and 72 manmonths (5 experts) of local
consultancy services. For the completion of ongoing projects (irrigation and
rivers), the project would provide 312 manmonths of internationally recruited
(15 experts) and 875 manmonths (35 experts) of local consultancy services.
These would include expertise in planning, design and construction. An
additional 48 manmonths of internationally recruited consultancy (2 experts)
and 48 manrmonths of local consultancy would also be provided for the training
of design staff in the provinces of South Sulawesi and Lampung.
2.13      Services of local and internationally recruited consultants with
experience in planning, design, construction, management and implementation of
swamp schemes would be provided to assist DGWRD and the provincial agencies.



- 23 -
The consultants' inputs will be required for: (a) the completion of ongoing
projects (54 manmonths of 2 internationally recruited experts and 51 manmonths
of 2 local experts); and (b) special maintenance and efficient O&M (47
manmonths of 2 internationally recruited experts and 165 manmonths of 7 local
experts). All the consultants would be appointed no later than January 31,
1988.
Pilot Groundwater Development
2.14      The project would provide funds for civil works, equipment and
related facilities to carry out pilot groundwater development, including the
construction of: (a) 80 tubewell irrigation systems in the tail end of the
Sampean Baru surface water command area in East Java, serving areas of about
25 ha each; (b) 500 shallow, hand drilled tubewell irrigation facilities in
the Madiun - Magaatan - Ponorogo area of East Java, with each tubewell serving
an area of about 3 ha of land owned by small farmers; (c) 100 shallow tubewell
irrigation systems in Nganjuk-Pace, Sidayu and Palang areas of East Java
designed to serve command areas of about 8 ha each; (d) 40 tubewell irrigation
systems in the eastern part of Lombok serving command areas of about 7-10 ha
each; (e) 100 tubewell irrigation systems in eastern and northern areas of
Lombok serving command areas of about 10-14 ha each; and (f) 45 tubewell
irrigation systems in Central Sulawesi (Palu area - 20) and South Sulawesi
(Kalara area - 20; Maros north area - 5) serving command areas of about 6 ha
each. The project would finance the first three year slice of a 5-year
program for East Java and Sulawesi, and a three year slice of a 4-year program
for groundwater development in Lombok,
2.15      To assist with the preparation of the groundwater subcomponent in
East Java and Sulawesi, DGWRD has engaged consultants required for survey and
design work during 1987, under the existing consultant contract under
Loan 2119-IND, and would recruit qualified consultants for a pericd of about
two years starting in early 1988 to assist with the implementation of the
groundwater component. The consultants' input for implementation, with
specialization in groundwater hydrology, drilling, engineering, water
management and irrigation agronomv, is estimated to amount to about 35 (5
experts) and 120 manmonths (6 experts) of internationally recruited and local
inputs respectively (Annex 4, Table 1). The groundwater subcomponent in
Lombok would also require technical assistance, particularly for pipe
distribution system design, tender document preparation and bid evaluation,
drilling, and most importantly, for water management and irrigation
agronomy. For this purpose, the project would provide 100 manmonths of
internationally recruited (9 experts) and 130 manmonths of local (7 experts)
consultancy services (Annex 4, Table 1). Their expertise would be in the
areas of irrigation engineering, geohydrology, drilling, agronomy, rural
development, and agricultural economics. These services would be spread over
about 30 months. The foreign consultancy would be financed by Government of
Italy. To assist with the preparation of the Lombok subcomponent, DGWRD would
engage consultants to be financed from Loan 2119-IND. Aerial photomapping of
about 31,000 ha and orthophoto mapping covering about 2,650 ha would be
carried out during 1987, with funding from Loan 2119-IND.



- 24 -
2.16      Prior to starting any implementation activities, DGWRD staff,
assisted by agricultural extension service staff and village leaders, would
meet with potential beneficiaries, who would need to agree to form a water
users' association for the O&M of the tubewell system to be constructed under
the project. After the tubewell systems are put in place, DGWRD would test
run all installations and establish task forces to provide advice and guidance
to the water users' associations on efficient O&M of the tubewell system. At
the same time, the agricultural extension service would establish special
units at all kabupaten offices where groundwater schemes are being
constructed, to advise and guide farmers on what crops to grow, the
application of rotational irrigation, and on water management practices.
Funding for this as well as strengthening of agricultural support services for
irrigated agriculture in the tubewell areas in Lombok would be provided under
the ongoing Bank-financed Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Support Services Project
(Loan 2638-IND) and for the other tubewell areas under the National
Agricultural Extension III Project (Loan 2748-IND). This would include the
cost for establishing demonstration plots for irrigated agriculture. With the
exception of the tubewell schemes to be constructed in Sampean Baru and
Lombok, WUAs would assume fulL responsibility for O&M upon completion of the
tubewell scheme installation and testing by DGWRD. Completed installations
would be turned over to the WUAs. For the Sampean Baru and Lombolk wells,
DGWRD would contribute in the first two years to the operation and mainterance
of the installations, in accordance with procedures established for similar
facilities under Loan 2119-IND. It is expected that for the necessary repair
of relatively simple pumps, motors and distribution systems, WUAs would be
able to call upon private entrepreneurs, suppliers and contractors, who are
increasingly operating in rural areas.
Turnover of Small Irrigation Systems
2.17      The proposed project would support the turnover (or privatization)
of small irrigation systems to WUAs. The Government has developed a total of
6,731 irrigation systems, which have an average size of about 700 ha each.
The number of systems under 500 ha in size is 4,717 and these cover about 19%
of the total design irrigable area but only about 6% of the area under
technical level of development. Most of the small irrigation systems (less
than 500 ha) are either semi-technical or simple irrigation systems. It is
generally believed that the farmers through their WUAs are capable of managing
these small and simple irrigation systems if the WUAs are active and if the
conditions of the systems are upgraded. The WUAs would also need to be
strengthened through a process of organizational development and provided on a
continuing basis with technical guidance (para. 2.32). As the systems are
upgraded and WUAs strengthened, the major criteria for selecting systems to be
turned over to farmers would be their size, technical complexity, and
institutional capacity of their WUAs. At present, WUAs are mostly organized
on a tertiary block basis, which has an average size of about 150 ha. There
is no federation of WUAs above the tertiary level. However, with the
provision of institutional support to develop system-wide f!JAs that encompass
the village associations, even the systems of up to 500 ha or larger could be
turned over to WUAs. While the Ministry of Public Works could continue to
provide construction services or technical advice and the GOI could continue
to support, guide and regulate such larger associations, there would be much



- 25 -
greater scope for local control and much greater reliance on locally generated
O&M resources.
2.18      The project would support a series of activities to be carried out
to hand over small systems to WUAs. These would include: (a) an inventory
and selection of small systems less than 150 ha in size and having perennial
water supplies; (b) selection and training of WUA staff to implement the
turnover program; (c) designing and implementing special maintenance works on
selected systems; (d) institutional strengthening of WUAs and specialized
training in O&M and handing over; and (e) routine monitoring. The project
would finance about 60 manmonths of local O&M engineering expertise to assist
with engineering elements of the turnover program, the costs of conducting
surveys and inventories of WUAs, and special maintenance works, if any. The
Ford Foundation would provide funds for a consulting team with specializations
in community organization/institutional development and knowledge of farmers'
approaches to irrigation management in small irrigation schemes. These funds
(para. 2.37) would cover the costs of about 60 man-months of local consultancy
at the center, about 180 man-months of local consultancy in the provinces, and
24 man-months of an international institutional advisor. The consultants
would assist DGWRD and PRIS with the implementation of the turnover program
for small irrigation systems.
2.19      The following are the annual target  for the turnover of systems
less than 150 ha each, and the project would support turnover of these systems
on about 20,400 ha in three years.
Table 2.1: TURNOVER OF SMALL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
Project                              Number of
Year /a               Provinces        Districts       Systems         Areas (ha)
1987/88                      2               2                12             1,200
1988/89                      4               6               48              4,800
1989/90                     10              16              140             14,400
1990/91                     17               -              604             44,909
1991/92                     25               -              750             60,000
1992/93                     27               -              750             60,000
Total                   -                -            2,304           185,309
/a   October 1 - September 30.
During the project year 1987/88, the two provinces selected for the turnover
of small systems are West Java and West Sumatra, where a larger proportion of
the irrigation systems are less than 150 ha in size.
2e20      The pilot areas for the introduction of irrigation service fee
(para. 2.21), where WUAs would be established at the system/district level,



- 26 -
would also serve as pilot areas for turning over larger systems. Based on the
experience of these pilot areas (20,400 ha), and a turnover of two systems of
about 500 ha each to WUAs, a nation-wide program would be prepared by COI by
September 30, 1990 for turning over systems larger than 150 ha.
Ir.iritiouL Service Fee
2.21      The proposed project would support the introduction of irrigation
service fee in selected pilot areas, and lay the basis for its nationwide
extension. The fee can be geared to the actual financial requirements for O&M
in specific irrigation systems and be implemented in such a way that there is
a direct connection between payment of the fee and the provision of the O&M
service. In view of an inadequate experience with the variations needed, if
any, across regions, in the concept, collection mechanisms and institutional
arrangements for an irrigation service fee, a pilot approach to its
introduction is proposed under this project. Such a pilot approach would
focus on: (a) the farmers' payment capacity in order to determine the
appropriate levels of the fee; (b) the variations in the application of the
fee, ranging from a per hectare charge to explicit water charges on bulk sales
to water users in different parts of the system; and (c) the organizational
arrangements needed for the collection of the fee. The pilot approach would
also lay the basis for institutionalizing the payment for services delivered,
and the retention of the revenues from this fee within the section/kabupaten
for O&M purposes. The criteria for the selection of the pilot areas have
been: (a) tne areas are scheduled for efficient O&M and cover at least one
irrigation section or system; (b) the chief of the district (Bupati), who will
be the key person in the pilot operation, is supportive of the ISF concept;
and (c) conditions of the irrigation services and WUAs are generally
representative of a larger area of the region. The following areas would be
included for the introduction of ISF:
Table 2.2: PILOT AREAS FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF IRRIGATION SERVICE FEE
Province                     Pilot areas                        Size (ha)
East Java                      Pekalen Sampeyan                     25,000
Central Java                   Wonogiri/Sukoharjo/Sr&gen            25,000
West Java                      Subang                               25,000
South Sulawesi                 Sidenreng Rappang                    50,000
Total                                                           125,000
In addition, the Simulungan irrigation system in North Sumatra is also
recommended for a similar pilot operation, which would be a component of a
proposed ADB-assisted project.
2.22      The proposed project would finance the services of consultants
(including per diems and costs of travel) and equipment and materials. A



- 27 -
consultant team at the central level (43 manmonths of internationally
recruited consultancy, i.e., 2 specialists with expertise in the fields of
institutior. building, public finance, and 'raining, and 34 man-months of local
consultancy, i.e., 2 experts with experience in technical, social, legal and
financial aspects) and a team in each pilot area (comprising a total of 26
manmonths of internationally recruited consultancy and 124 manmonths of local
consultancy, with same expertise as the team at the central level) would work
with the district level irrigation committee to implement the introduction of
irrigation service fee. The implementation of the steps needed for the
introduction of the irrigation service fee (including formulation of
implementation plans, and monitoring and evaluation) would proceed along the
schedule outlined in Annex 2, Table 13. The collection of ISF in the pilot
areas (125,000 ha) would commence by December 31, 1988 and the administrative
and judicial arrangements (as found to be workable in pilot areas) would be
established by January 31, 1990 for its extension to other areas.
Land Valuation and Strengthening of PBB
2.23      The project would support the introduction of the new PBB system,l/
which would include the following: (a) implementing the new land
reclassification and valuation system recently adopted by GOI, based on the
market value of the land; (b) an inventory of land holdirigs based on aerial
photography; (c) installing a computerized management information system to
help improve tax administration; (d) developing an efficient and effective tax
management and collection system; and (e) strengthening of the Directorate of
IPEDA/PBB and its regional offices.
2.24      The reclassification and assessment of land holdings would entail
the production of rectified photos and maps at suitable scales, identification
of property boundaries and land holders, valuation, establishment of PBB tax
classification, and development of effective procedures enabling tax
collection. The areas to be covered would overlap with the areas receiving
speciai maintenance and efficient O&M under the project. The project would
finance the costs of survey and mapping, and all the training and consultancy
per diems and fees. About 40 manmonths of internationally recruited
consultancy (3 experts in survey/mapping, land classification/valuation and
institutional development/training) and 120 manmonths of local consultancy
services (3 experts with similar expertise as the internationally recruited
consultants, and a data processing specialist) would be needed to implement
the components of land valuation and strengthening of PBB. During the first
year of the project, a pilot scheme of survey and mapping for land
reclassification and registration would be established (on an area of 5,000
ha) to develop simplified procedures for mapping which would use all the
existing reliable data. Considerable time and cost savings could be obtained
if the existing irrigation photomaps and IPEDA maps are found reliable, and
1/   The recently approved Urban Sector Loan (Ln 2816-IND) would support
technical assistance, training, and property valuations for the urban PBB
improvement program, providing the complementarity needed for Lhe
improvement of both urban and rural PBB.



- 28 -
this would be verified in the pilot scheme. The implementation schedule
(covering the October 1987-January 1988 period) for this pilot scheme is
included in Annex 2, Table 10. About 100,000 ha in Year 2 and about 300,000
in Year 3 would be covered for land reclassification/valuation under the
project. These targets are additional to the ongoing land reclassification
program being supported by Bank- and ADB-assisted projects.
2.25      The IPEDA/PBB directorate and its regional offices would require
additional staff, comprising at least six geodetic engineers and two
geographers in 1987 and another five geodetic engineers in 1988. A number of
technicians and surveyors also need to upgrade their skills (para. 2.31). As
part of institutional development, there is also a need to review the existing
organizational structure of the IPEDA/PBB directorate and its regional
offices, including its key functions, staffing levels, information flows, and
specialization requirements. The Bank-supported Urban Sector Loan
(Ln 2816-IND) would assist with the preparation and implementation of action
plans needed to strengthen the organizations involved in land valuation and
tax collection. Under the proposed project, two tax advisors for rural PBB
would be appointed by April 30, 1988 to help improve tax administration
through computerization and better procedures.
Institutional Strengthening and Training
2.26      Manpower Development for Systems 0&M.  To strengthen O&M
capabilities, the staffing (pengamats, jurus and water regulation personnel)
in district and lower level units in the districts would be increased to meet
the requirements, as assessed by DGWRD and PRIS. The swamp areas to be
covered by efficient 0&M under the project are also estimated to require about
30 incremental pengamats and about 90 jurus. Adequate provisions would be
made for fulfilling the additional staffing requirements (Action Plan:
Annex 1).
2.27      Details of the training programs were reviewed at a?praisal and are
given in Annex 3, Table 2. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
training programs would be carried out in accordance with the timetable and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.1 (b)). The proposed
project would finance trainers' fees and per diems, classroom rental,
furniture and equipment, supplies and materials, local travel, salaries of
support staff, and consultancy fees (paras. 2.32 and 2.33). About 3,000
middle and lower lower level O&M staff in irrigated and swamp areas would
undergo training in basic O&M duties and practical skills. These would
include maintenance of basic irrigation records, principles of water control
and operation, discharge measurement, maintenance requirements and the
estimation of associated costs. Some 110 trainers in both irrigated and swamp
areas would also be trained in O&M procedures. About 420 technical high
school level staff (usually pengamats) would be trained in O&M courses offered
at the PUSDIKLAT regional training centers. In addition, some 275 BIE level
engineers would undergo specialized training courses in O&M. The
subdirectorate of DOI-II responsible foi the groundwater component, together
with staff of the agricultural extension service, would develop training
programs for WUA leaders and pump operators. The training would focus on the
operation and maintenance of pumps, engines and PVC pipe distribution systems,



- 29 -
efficient use of pumped water, rotational irrigation, crop selection and water
management practices. Training practices and materials developed on
groundwater projects elsewhere in Indonesia would be utilized to the extent
possible. It was agreed that the Government would arrange for alternative
financing to provide for a study tour to areas outside Indonesia where the
exploitation of low-lift tubewells for irrigation development by smallholders
takes place extensively, using shallow groundwater resources, and where modern
public tubewell sysce.ms with looped pipe distribution and automated pumping
systems have been introduced. Staff of BAPPENAS, DGWRD and Provincial
Irrigation Services would participate in the study tour to benefit from recent
innovations in tubewell technology.
2.28      Since most provinces lack senior-level staff, and a seksi head
should be at least of Bachelor of Engineering (BIE) level, some 72 PRIS staff
would undertake the diploma/degree oriented BIPOWERED training in Bandung. In
addition, about 26 senior level staff would undergo Master's degree level
overseas training courses. These training courses would include various
specializations such as water resources engineering, management and hydraulic
engineering. The representative office (within DGWRD) of the Education and
Training division (BDP) would also establish, by February 29, 1988, a data
bank for the effective dissemination of training needs of PRIS.
2.29      Strengthening of WUAs and Irrigation Committees.  Chart 3 presents
the scheme for developing WUAs and strengthening the Irrigation Committees at
the provincial and lower levels under the project. The institutional
strengthening would include the aspects of organization/coordination,
regulation/administration, budgeting and financing, and other supporting
elements needed by the institutions involved in irrigation management. At the
district and lower levels, the priority activities would be the collection of
benchmark information on WUAs and the setting up of WUA Action Groups, which
would serve as catalysts of WUA developmert. These Action Groups would draw
their membership from the more senior level staff of the district units of
Public Works, Agriculture and Home Affairs. Depending on the size of the
irrigable area in each district, one to four action groups would be
established in each district. A quick inventory of WUAs to establish,
benchmark information on activity status, organizational boundaries, awareness
of duties and responsibilities and developmental problems and constraints,
would be carried out by the district and subdistrict s.aff of Public Works,
Agriculture and Home Affairs. The project would finance the costs of
conducting surveys, including travel, salaries, supplies and materials. The
Action Groups would be established by January 31, 1988 and the inventory of at
least 10 WUAs would be completed by April 30, 1988. By September 30, 1990, at
least 20 new WUAs would be established and 200 existing WUAs strengthened.
2.30      About 200 Action Group members would undergo a 2-month training on
community organization under the project. To reach the large number of target
WUAs, the Directorate of Agriculture Area Development (DAAD) in cooperation
with Action Groups, Home Affairs and DOI-II would also train some 1,020 seksi,
subsection and village level staff of the departments of Agriculture and Home
Affairs on WUA organization and development. The target participants would
include PPLs or extension workers who will devote 30-50% of their time to WUA
development. The project would also provide funds and technical assistance



- 30 -
(para. 2.32) to train 1,500 middle level provincial and district staff, 4,040
subdistrict and village level staff, 360 instructors and 8,800 WUA members and
key farmers. In addition, there would be a follow-up training for about 6,700
WUA members.
2.31      During the 3-year project implementation, about 175 staff would be
trained in the fields of cartography, specialized surveying land valuation,
tax management and administration, mapping, and in evaluation/assessment
criteria for PBB. The project wo'ld also provide about 10 man-months of
overseas training for PBB staff, including short-term (3-6 month) scholarships
to overseas universities/technical institutes.
2.32      A total of 90 and 192 manmonths of internationally recruited and
local consultancy services respectively, comprising 5 internationally
recruited and 9 local O&M experts and training specialists, would be provided
to DOI-I for on-the-job training of staff for main systems O&M. Another 27
manmonths of internationally recruited and 30 of local consultancy
(1 internationally recruited and 1 local training specialist) would be
provided to Directorate of Swamps (DOS) for on-the-job training of staff in
O&M in swamp areas. The project would provide 126 manmonths of
internationally recruited and 210 manmonths of local consultancy to DOI-II for
coordinating training and organizing workshops for provincial staff and WUAs,
in the fields of tertiary systems O&M and on-farm water management. Their
expertise would be in the fields of O&M and on-farm water management
(3 internationally recruited and 5 local experts), training (1 internationally
recruited and 1 local expert), and audio-visual material production
(1 internationally recruited and 1 local). This would be complemented by 90
manmonths of internationally recruited and 300 manmonths of local consultancy
services to DAAD, mostly in the fields of community organization and rural
institutional development (3 internationally recruited and 10 local experts).
2.33      Under the project, BDP would be strengthened in order to improve its
capabilities to coordinate, monitor, evaluate, as well as plan and conduct
short training courses, help analyze training needs, manage training programs
and disseminate essential training materials and information. The BDP and
Personnel Division would be provided with 114 manmonths of internationally
recruited and 180 manmonths of local consultancy (4 internationally recruited
and 6 local experts) with expertise in the fields of training --nagement,
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and manpower planning. Another 12 manmonths
of internationally recruited consultancy (M&E experts) would be provided to
the Directorate of Planning and Programming for monitoring and evaluating
physical progress of the project. Funds to cover operating costs, consultancy
costs (42 manmonths of local M&E expertise and 24 manmonths of local MIS
expertise) and the purchase of additional micro computers to meet the
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and management information systems (MIS) needs
for O&M at the PRIS level would be provided under the project.
Technical Assistance and Studies
2.34      The project would provide technical assistance amounting to
$45 million (as indicated earlier in paras. 2.12, 2.13, 2.15, 2.18, 2.22,



- 31 -
2.24, 2.32, 2.33) for planning, programming, designs and specifications,
institutional strengthening, turnover of small irrigatiOn systems,
introduction of irrigation service fee and land reclassification/valuation,
The estimated cost of $45 million for technical assistance includes
contingencies of about $5 million, internationally recruited consultancy of
about $19 million (of which $4 million would be be grant-financed), and local
consultancy of about $21 million. Of the local consultancy costs of $21
million, about $10-12 million is the estimated cost for local subcontracts for
detailed designs. This large technical assistance is needed beca,ise the
project is spread over 16 provinces, involves the departments of Public Works
(including a number of directorates within DGWRD), Agriculture, Home Affairs,
BAPPENAS and Finance, not only at the central and PRIS level, but also at the
district and section/subsection level, and entails apart from physical
implementation of the project, institutional strengthening, particularly at
lower levels, various studies, and initiation of several policies. The terms
of reference for all the consultants and the invitation documents have been
finalized, and assurances obtained that the eonsultants would be selected by
January 31, 1988 (para. 7.1(c)). The selection of consultants would be in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Details of the consultancy services (about
1,671 manmonths of internationally recruited consultancy and 3,944 manmonths
of local consultancy services), which are the minimum needed to implement all
the components of the project, are contained in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2.  The
consultancy services would be provided at three levels.  At the central level,
there would be technical assistance to the Project Coordinating wit Nithin
DGWRD) and to the inter-agency coordination group (para. 3.8).  Advisory teams
would also assist the PRIS and the districts or sections in the technical
aspects of implementation, the introduction of efficient O&M procedures, and
in the preparation of annual budgets needed for efficient O&M. Some of the
consultancy inputs, particularly for the provincial design units, studies,
policy initiatives, introduction of efficient O&M procedures, and some
elements of institutional strengthening/training would no longer be required
during the subsequent Bank operations in the irrigation subsector. It was
agreed during negotiations, that any subsequent operation of a similar nature
would require smaller scale of technical assistance than envisaged under this
project.
2.35      Studies
(a) Institutional Strengthening Study. In view of the changing nature
and direction of irrigation expenditures increasingly towards O&M, a
review and reassessment of the roles of the various organizations
involved in planning, organizing, directing and controlling O&M
activities, is needed. In the case of provincial irrigation
authorities, this implies a greater autonomy in planning, budgeting
and upgrading of their staff and facilities. In the case of DGWRD,
its envisaged role could be more of a planner of new systems
development. This changing role, in turn, could require a
reorganization within DGWRD entailing a shift of manpower and other
resources to PRIS, more DGWRD attention to the development of
policies and procedures to be adopted at the provincial level rsther
than a central control of O&M activities, as well as greater role in
monitoring PRISo In view of the interlocking technical, managerial,



- 32 -
administrative, institutional and financial issues that would have a
bearing on such an alignment of institutional responsibilities, a
study to define the necessary changes and adjustments would be
initiated. The study would require the services of 4
internationally recruited consultants (6 manmonths each) with
expertise in the areas of irrigation, institutional development,
management systems and financial systems, and 3 local consultants
(22 manmonths) with expertise in institutional development,
management systems and legal aspects. The study would be completed
by September 30, 1988, and upon taking the Bank's comments into
account, the recommendations of the study would be implemented
commencing January 1989 (Action Plan: Annex 1).
(b) Investment Strategy Study. An indepth review is needed to develop
and improve upon the existing criteria for project selection and to
assess the viability of all existing and proposed irrigation
investment programs, and prioritize these investments, with a view
to dropping the non-viable investments and restructuring projects to
protect high-priority activities while accommodating reduced
budgetary resources. The purpose of the investment expenditures
review would be to rationalize the existing portfolio of projects
being implemented and to formulate an appropriate development
strategy and investment programs for Repelita V. A study would need
to be made of both the physical and expenditure status of each
ongoing project. Only a project-by-project assessment can help
determine the projects which should be given priority in the
allocation of funds at sufficient levels to maintain efficient
implementation schedules. The study would provide the basis for
making the right choices on continuing or discontinuing ongoing
projects, the adding of new projects to the portfolio, and
maintaining the proper balance between investment and recurrent O&M
expenditures. The study would require the services of 3
internationally recruited consultants (18 manmonths), with expertise
in fiscal economics/public finance and engineering, and 6 local
consultants (36 manmonths), with expertise in general economics and
irrigation background. This study would be completed by July 31,
1988, to enable an input into the Repelita V strategy and investment
programs (Action Plan: Annex 1).
(c) Environmental Impact Studies. To address environmental concerns of
the project, particularly for ongoing projects, five environmental
studies would be included under the project. These studies would
mainly focus on the impact of irrigation on the population, health,
malaria control programs, and introduction of safeguards to protect
irrigation and groundwater supply from contamination. Previous
environmental studies commissioned by DGWRD were satisfactorily
carried out by local universities with minimal assistance from
international consultants. The selection and number of consultants
would be in accordance with issues to be studied under each selected
ongoing project. The studies are estimated to require the services
of one internationally recruited consultant (6 manmonths) and about
six local consultants (82 manmonths) with expertise in the areas of



- 33 -
irrigation, sea water encroachment (in groundwater areas), malaria
control, use of agrochemicals, pollution control and ecology. DWWRD
would inform the Bank by January 31, 1988 about the selected ongoing
projects for which the environmental studies would be undertaken.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these studies
would be completed by March 31, 1990 (para. 7.1(d)).
D. Cost Estimates
2.36      Total cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
expected price increases, is estimated at about Rp 592.4 billion
(US$359.1 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$ 148 million, or
41%. The cost estimate is based on September 1987 prices and includes taxes
and duties computed at Rp 30.6 billion (US$18.5 million). Civil works
estimates are derived from costs of projects already under execution, as well
as detailed estimates for 13 sample areas in six provinces. The average cost
of civil works for 16 ongoing projects already selected (the construction of
which will commence in Year 1) has been used as a basis for estimating the
costs of additional ongoing projects to be selected in the second year of the
project. Equipment and vehicle cost estimates are based on price quotations
from suppliers, cross-checked with the prices of comparable units recently
purchased or curr..Atly being procured by various agencies.  Foreign
consultants' average base costs have been estimated at US$12,000 per manmonth,
including professional fees, overheads, travel and overseas allowances. Local
consultants' costs have been taken at US$2,500 per manmonth. These costs are
based on experience with recent consultancy contracts in Indonesia. Physical
contingencies (to allow for possible design variations) have been assessed at
15% of the cos. of civil works, 10 of the cost of equipment and vehiclest and
5% of the cost of consultancy services. Price contingency estimates assume
increases in local currency costs of 10% in 1987, 5% in 1988, and 3.5% per
annum thereafter (based on expected domestic inflation), and in foreign
exchange costs of 3% in 1987, and 1% per annum thereafter. Project cost
estimates are summarized in Table 2.3 below and detailed in Annex 2, Table 1.



- 34 -
Table 2.3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign as
---(Rupiah billion)---   ----(US$'million)----   X of total
Special Maintenance             74.5    45.7   120.2       45.2   27.7       72.9         38
Incremental Operations
and Maintenance               15.7    10.0    25.7        9.5    6.1       15.6         39
Recurrent Operations and
Maintenance /a                72.8    57.6   130.4       44.1   34.9       79.0         44
Ongoing Projects               100.4    70.2   170.6        60.9   42.5    103.4          41
Groundwater Development         10.8      9.9    20.7        6.6    6.0      12.6         48
Institutional Development       11.4    20.4    31.8        6.9   12.4       19.3         64
Turnover of Small Systems        3.5      1.1      4.6       2,1    0.7       2.8         24
Introduction of Irriga-
tion Service Fee - Pilot
Schemes                        3.0      1.6     4.6       1.8    1.0        2.8         36
Land Reclassification and
Valuation                      3.9      2.2      6.1       2.3    1.3       3.6         36
Total Baseline Costs /b   296.0   218.7   514.7    179.4  132.6    312.0               43
Physical Contingencies          25.7    20.5    46.2        15.6   12.4      28.0         44
Price Contingencies             26.6      4.9    31.5       16.1    3.0      19.1         16
Total Project Costs         348.3   244.1   592.4    211.1  148.0    359.1             41
/a   Present levels of O&M expenditures.
Th   Includes taxes and duties amounting to US$18.5 million equivalent.
L.  Financing
2.37      The proposed Bank loan of US$234 million would finance 94% of the
foreign exchange costs and 45% of the local currency costs of the project.
This represents 69% of total project costs, exclusive of taxes
(US$ 18.5 million). Provision for retroactive financing of US$5 million has
been included to cover eligible expenditures under the 1987/88 budget starting
from September 1, 1987. This would enable the project momentum gained during
the preparation period to be maintained. The Governments of Italy and the
Netherlands, and the Ford Foundation are expected to provide $15.4 million,
bringing total external financing to $249.4 million, or 69% of total costs,
covering 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$ 148 million) and 48% of local
costs. The Government of Italy is expected to provide about $1.6 million for
equipment and $1.4 million for technical assistance for the Lombok groundwater
component, and the Government of Netherlands is expected to provide about $2
million for training, $0.4 million for the institutional strengthening study,
and $9.4 million of joint financing with the Bank for civil works to be
undertaken for special maintenance and efficient O&M. The Ford Foundation
would provide about $0.6 million for consultant teams needed to assist with



- 35 -
the implementation of the turnover of small irrigation systems. GOI would
finance the remaining project cost of $109.7 million from its development
budget (or a net contribution of $91.2 million after taxes and duties). This
contribution would require GOI to maintain the present level of O&M
expenditures in real terms, amounting to $83.2 million over the three year
project period. The Bank would finance part of incremental O&M costs for each
area coming on stream under the project on a declining basis. Over the
project implementation period, GOI would meet a progressively larger share of
incremental O&M expenditures in project areas, increasing from about 10% in
?roject Year 2 to 17% in Year 3. This contribution of GOI would amount to
$1.6 million over the three years. Costs of land acquisition (about US$6
million) and a part of the costs of the investment strategy study (US$0.4
million) would also be financed by GOI. The financing plan for the project,
including specific expenditures to be financed by GOI, was agreed during
negotiations. The project financing plan is set out in Table 2.4 below, and
the phasing of GOI contributions (by GOI fiscal year) is contained in Annex 2,
Table 2.
Table 2.4: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ m.llion)
Total Project
Funding source            Local   Foreign         cost              Percent
Bank                        94.4   139.6          234.0               65.2 /a
Government of
Netherlands                6.4      5.4          11.8                3.3
Government of Italy          0.3      2.7           3.0                0.8
GOI                        109.7        -         109.7               30.5
Ford Foundation              0.3      0.3           0.6                0.2
Total             211.1   148.0         359.1              100.0
Ia   69% of project costs, excluding taxes.
F. Preparation Status and Implementation Schedule
Irrigation
2.38      Sample designs for special maintenance of irrigation systems serving
50,000 ha are completed. This work was begun in September 1986 by DGWRD,
assisted by the consultants (MacDonalds/Indah Kary-) responsible for project
preparation. It included updating of systems maps, reviewing special
maintenance requirements and preparing detailed designs for special
maintenance work on 50,000 ha. Contracts for preparing detailed designs for
75,000 ha to be covered in Year 1 have also been made by GOI with local
cunsulting firms. These detailed designs have been substantially completed.
Designs for 175,000 ha to be covered in the sEcond year is nearing



- 36 -
completion. March 1988, and for the remaining 150,000 ha by March 1989.
Technical and economic viability of sixteen on-going projects to be
implemented in Year 1 has been evaluated, and contracts for additional survey
and design work required for completing these on-going projects have been
signed. The remaining design work of these projects is nearing completion.
Designs for small river mouths were completed in August 1987. The
implementation schedule (including necessary procurement actions) for
irrigation works is included in Annex 2, Table 3.
Swamps
2.39      Preparatory designs are in progress for special maintenance
construction in the first year of the project. Designs for special
maintenance of the drainage canals serving 43,400 ha are completed, for
another 38,800 ha would be completed by March 1988, and for the balance of
23,350 ha by December 1988. Detailed designs for the completion of an ongoing
project (Mesuji schemes) were prepared by the Technical Institute in Bandung,
and reviewed by consultants engaged under the Bank-supported Swamps I Project
(Ln. 1958-IND). Most of the excavation works for drainage canals on about
12,400 ha in Mesuji schemes have been completed. The designs for remaining
7,600 ha would be completed by March 31, 1988. The detailed designs for the
second ongoing project to be implemented in Year 3 would be completed by March
1989.
Groundwater Development
2.40      Field surveys (topography and soils) for 480 ha in Madiun are
substantially completed, and for 500 ha in Sampean Baru would be completed by
February 1988. Detailed designs for 270 ha in Sulawesi are nearing
completion, and for 740 ha in Madiun and Sampean Baru would be completed by
March 1988. Surveys on the remaining area in Madiun and Sampean Baru
(1,920 ha), and detailed designs on about 1,600 ha in Sampean Baru, would be
completed by December 1988. Designs for 560 ha in Madiun would be completed
by March 1989. Construction of tubewell irrigation systems would commence in
1988. During 1984-86, the Government of Italy provided DGWRD with consultancy
services for groundwater investigation in Lombok. In addition to carrying out
surveys and feasibility studies, the consultants (Electro Consult) trained
DGWRD personnel in drilling, logistic support, hydrogeology, irrigation
design, and agroeconomic data collection, as well as conducting short training
courses. The construction of tubewells in Lombok would commence in 1988, with
the exception of 4 wells which have already been drilled and are ready to be
equipped and put in operation. The phasing of the construction of the
tubewell irrigation systems is contained in Annex 2, Tables 7 and 8.
G. Procurement
Civil Works
2.41      Civil works for special maintenance and completion of ongoing
projects are estimated to cost about US$148 million. Of these, works costing
about US$89 million would be small in scal^, dispersed over 16 provinces, and
require close interaction with iillagers both as beneficiaries and as
laborers. They are thus unlikely to attract foreign competition, and would be



- 37 -
largely tendered on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with GOI procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil works packages
larger than US$3 million would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). Such packages are not expected to exceed six in number, and to
total about US$30 million in value. These would include about six ongoing
GOI-funded projects (including two in the first year of the project: Sanrego
and Tulan Mas). Efficient maintenance works ($13.1 million), a part of the
special maint 7ance works ($28.9 million) and other maintenance works
($25 million)- would be largely carried out under force account by the
PRIS. This would be the most economical and efficient method in Indonesia for
civil, works that cannot be fully defined in advance and for activities that
need to be carried out with least disruption to ongoing operations. Civil
works for the groundwater component costing approximately US$2.5 million
equivalent would be procured through LCB using GOI procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Well drilling would be undertaken by local contractors, with DGWRD
providing drilling rigs, well materials, and skilled supervisory staff. The
foreign contractors would not be interested in such drilling work, in view of
the small size of contracts. Furthermore, equipment currently lying idle with
DGWRD would be utilized for drilling.
Equipment and Materials
2.42      Equipment and materials totalling US$15.3 million, including
procurement of vehicles ($800,000) would be bulked to the extent possible into
lots for procurement under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines
for procurement. In bid comparison, local manufacturers would be allowed a
15% margin of preference or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
Equipment which cannot be suitably bulked and other packages of small items
costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each, up to a total limit of US$5
million, may be procured by DCWRD's Directorate of Logistics through GOI
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of materials and
equipment ($6.5 million) for groundwater tubewell systems would be divided
into two packages. The first package, which is to be procured during the
first project year, would provide materials and equipment for the schemes to
be installed under this project. The second package would provide for
materials and equipment to be installed under a possible future project.
Procurement and Bank financing of the second package (valued at about $2.5
million), which would be carried out during the third year of the project,
would be subject to satisfactory progress on arrangements made by GOI to
ensure that financing for installation would be provided. This would be a
condition of loan disbursements (para. 7.2(a)), against the second package of
materials and equipment for groundwater tubewell systems.
2/   About 30% of the present level of O&M expenditures would be for civil
worksp and the balance for O&M staff salaries.



- 38 -
Cotsultancy Services
2.43      The consultancy services ($45 million), with the exception of those
needed for detailed designs of special maintenance works and ongoing projects,
and those grant-financed by cofinanciers, would be procured internationally,
in accordance with Bank guidelines. GOI envisages use of joint ventures
between foreign and local firms for this purpose under arrangements acceptable
to the Bank. The detailed designs of special maintenance works and ongoing
projects would be carried out through local .ubcontracts under the supervision
of the consultants recruited internationally. The consultancy services would
be packaged for procurement as follows: (a) one pac4.age for special and
efficient O&M on irrigated areas and related training in all provinces; (b)
one package for ongoing irrigation projects; (c) one package for ongoing
swamps projects, and special and efficient O&M on swamps, including training;
(d) one package for small river mouths and ongoing river projects; (e) a
package for each study; and (f) two packages for training of water users' and
one package for training of provincial design units.
Review of Procurement
2.44      ICB procedures would be used for civil works contracts exceeding the
value of US$3.0 million, and for equipment and supplies contracts exceeding
the value of US$200,000. Civil works and equipment would be procured by the
responsible implementing agency, using contract documents acceptable to the
Bank. An independent but internal control of all procurement is made by the
DGWRD Secretariat, and larger contracts (Rp 500 million and above) would be
cleared by the State Secretariat Procurement Control Unit (SEKNEG). It is
estimated that about 50 civil works contracts, in addition to five consultancy
packages, would be reviewed by SEKNEG. These procurement controls appear to
be working satisfactorily. For civil works contracts, the Bank would review
prior to tendering and award about 40 contracts ($85 million), each over
US$1.5 million, covering in aggregate about 50% of the value of civil works.
The remaining civil works contracts would be reviewed by the Bank on a post-
award sample basis. Equipment contracts to be procured through ICB
($15.3 million) would be reviewed by the Bank prior to tendering and award;
small equipment contracts not exceeding $200,000 (with an aggregate value of
$5 million) for local procurement would not be reviewed by the Bank because of
their simple nature and small value. All consultant invitation documents,
proposed awards, and contracts would be reviewed by the Bank. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 2.5 below.



- 39 -
Table 2.5: PROCUREMENT PLAN
Procurement method                        Total
ICB          LCB        Other          N.A. /b      cost
- (US$ million)
Civil Works
-  Special Maintenance         -          28.9         28.9 /a         -          57.8
(24.5)       (23.9)                    (48.4)
-  Ongoing Projects          30.0         60.5                         -          90.5
(30.0)       (60.5)                                 (90.5)
-  Groundwater                             2.5                         - -         2.5
(2.5)                                  (2.5)
-  Efficient O&M                                       13.1 /a         -          13.1
(11.5)                    (11.5)
-  Recurrent O&M /c                                    25.0 /a       58.2         83.2
(0)           (0)         (0)
Equipment & supplies           15.3          5.0                                    20.3
(15.3)        (3.4)                                 (18.7)
Consultants                                              45.2                       45.2
(42.8)                    (42.8)
Training, mapping and
surveys including
materials and travel                                                 22.0         22.0
(19.6)      (19.6)
Land Acquisition                                                        6.0          6.0
(0)         (0)
Taxes and Duties                                                       18.5         18.5
(0)         (0)
Total                    45.3         96.9        112.2         104.7        359.1
(45.3)       (90.9)       (78.2)        (19.6)     (234.0)
Note:  Figures include contingencies; figures in parentheses represent Bank loan.
/a   No competitive bidding is involved for the civil works, since these might be carried
out on force account basis.
/b   Not applicable, because no procurement is involved for the items listed in this
column.
/c   Present level of O&M expenditures.  About 30% (US$25 million) would be for civil
works, and the balance for O&M staff salaries.



- 40 -
H. Disbursements
2.45      The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) About $11.5 million to be disbursed against incremental (efficient)
O&M expenditures on civil works, would be on a declining scale as
follows: 91% of total expenditures on civil works in project year 1
($2 million), 80% in year 2 ($4 million), and 73% in year 3 ($5.5
million);
(b) 911 of total expenditures on all other civil works (except covered
under (a)), (US$125.8 million);
(c) 1001 of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, 95% of
local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally manufactured
equipment, and 65% of locally procured off-the-shelf items
(US$17.3 million);
(d) 100% of expenditures on consultant services (US$40.7 million);
(e)  100% of expenditures on training, mapping, surveys, including
materials and travel (US$18.7 million); and
(f) Unallocated (US$20 million).
2.46      Disbursements would be made against contracts, except for works
executed on force account basis, small civil works contracts valued at less
than US$300,000, and the cost of training, which would be disbursed against
statements of expenditure (SOEs). In the case of efficient O&M, Bank loan
disbursements would be for civil works, materials and equipment.
Documentation for SOE expenditures would not be submitted for review, but
would be retained by the project implementation units, and made available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of project supervision. Total
disbursements against SOE would amount to about US$55 million, or 24% of the
Bank loan amount. While the disbursement profile for past investment projects
in the irrigation subsector in Indonesia has stretched over about 10 years, it
is not applicable to the proposed project, which constitutes a 3-year time
slice of an investment program. The schedule of disbursements is estimated as
follows:
Table 2.6: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank FY             FY88      FY89       FY90        FY91
US$ million --
Annual              30.0       80.0      80.0        44.0
Cumulative          30.0      110.0     190e0       234.0



- 41 -
The detailed implementation schedules (Annex 2) indicate that this
disbursement schedule is feasible. The target areas to be covered under
special maintenance, efficient O&M, and ongoing projects are feasible within
the 3-year time slice operation. In the case of the groundwater component,
the project would finance the first 3-year slice of a 4-5 year program. The
targets of (a) 125,000 ha for introduction of irrigation service fee;
(b) turnover of systems (less than 150 ha in size) covering 20,400 ha; (c) the
preparation of plans for extension of irrigation service fee to other areas,
and for turnover of larger systems; (d) land reclassificaton/valuation of
about 400,000 ha; (e) completion of various studies; and (f) institutional
strengthening/training, are feasible. Action Plan (Annex 1) outlines these
targets. Loan closing is expected by March 31, 1991.
2.47      In order to avoid requiring GOI to pre-finance expenditures
reimbursable by the Bank and to simplify and expedite disbursement
administration, GOI would establish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia to be
maintained by DG Budget and implement new procedures for faster processing of
disbursements and withdrawals. The Special Account would be used for all local
currency payments made against all disbursement categories. However, the
contracts procured under ICB would be paid at the option of GOI, either from
the Special Account or by normal disbursement procedures (direct payments,
reimbursements and special commitment). The Bank would make an initial
deposit equivalent to an estimated four months' disbursement (US$10 million)
into the Special Account. The Account would be replenished every month or
when payments reach one-half of the initial deposit. A. monthly statement on
the Special Account would be submitted by DG Budget to the Bank.
I. Environmental Effects
2.48      Irrigated paddy is ecologically the most stable and non-erosive form
of land use in Indonesia, and the project would have a very positive
environmental impact through its support for improved resource use and
productivity. In new irrigated areas, particularly outside Java, farmers'
increased incomes from irrigated crops would help reduce the pressure on land,
allowing Indonesia to preserve more of its rain forests. In addition, aquifer
levels in areas under the groundwater component would continue to be closely
monitored to ensure that groundwater resources are not over-exploited in any
tubewell area. Since the ongoing projects are relatively small in size
(average of 2,000 ha) and include areas, part of which is irrigated and the
remaining is rainfed, no issues related to land clearing and resettlement of
population would be encountered. The implementation of the project would not
involve an increase in the use of agrochemicals, and the Government has taken
steps to promote the integrated pest management approach and to allow only
soft or degradable pesticides into the country. GOI environmental policy
stipulates that environmental impact studies should be undertaken for projects
where environmental aspects need to be assessed (para. 2.35(c)). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that public health authorities, with the
cooperation of each Provincial Irrigation Service, would take appropriate
measures for malaria control (para. 7.1(e)) as the irrigation and cropping
patterns intensify, since some of the vectors are present and there is some



- 42 -
incidence of malaria in the project areas. GOI's ongoing malaria control
program would follow an approach which integrates nonchemical and chemical
methods, and minimizes the environmental and health impacts of chemical use.
J. Role of Women
2.49      The role of women is important in irrigated agriculture,
particularly in rice transplanting, crop harvesting and drying operations.
Water collection for household use is also undertaken by women. The household
uses of irrigation water would be taken into account, particularly in
designing the groundwater component of the project. In the case of both the
turnover of small schemes to WUAs, and the strengthening of the WUAs, an
active participation of women would be supported. Similarly, the training
component of the project would focus on upgrading the skills of women,
particularly in the O&M procedures and guidelines. Data collection and
analysis for the purposes of monitoring and evaluation would focus on
disaggregated (by gender) breakdown of employment benefits that are generated
by the project. This information would include different employment options
for men and women, wage rates and training requirements. The participation of
women in WUAs and in training programs would also be monitored and evaluated.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
National LevelOrganization and Management
3.1       DGWRD, through its Directorates and each PRIS would be responsible
for project implementation. Overall coordination ai.d review of project
implementation would be provided by a Project Coordinating Unit, under the
Assistant Director General, DGWRD, who would be designated Project
Coordinator, and assisted by three internationally recruited consultants with
experience in O&M, design, and planning and budgeting, respectively, and one
local consultant. Each international consultant would have a local
counterpart from DGWRD's staff. This group would advise and assist DCWRD in
overall planning and programming, standardizing O&M procedures, review of on-
going projects, and prequalification, selecEion and supervision of the work of
local sub-contractors who will prepare the designs and tender documents. Its
overall responsibilities would include supervision of project implementation,
and monitoring of all procurement actions.
3.2       The main executing bodies within DGWRD would be DOI-I, DOI-II, DOS,
Directorate of Rivers (DOR) and BDP. The designated staff from each of the
Directorates would meet regularly with the Project Coordinating Unit, to
inform the Unit of the progress made in project implementation, and the
problems if any that need to be resolved. Such meetings would also bring
about the coordination needed between the various Directorates. DOI-I would
provide technical guidance and administrative support to the PRIS for the



- 43 -
implementation of special maintenance and efficient O&M of irrigation areas.
It would also be responsible for the completion of ongoing projects, and
together with PRIS implement on-the-job training of main systems O&M staff.
3.3       DOI-I1  through its subdirectorate of groundwater development would
implement the groundwater component. The East Java and Sulawesi g;.undwater
component would be implemented through the subdirectorate's existing offices
at Surabaya, Madiun, Kederi, Jember, Sampean Baru, Ujung, Pandang and Palu.
The East Java groundwater project office in Surabaya would have overall
management responsibilities. The Lombok groundwater component would be
implemented through subdirectorate's existing office in Mataram, which was
established during the investigatio.' phase of the project. DOI-II would also
be responsible for the training on tertiary systems O&M and on-farm water
management for the middle and lower level administrative officials, staff of
agricultural and irrigation services, and members of the Irrigation
Committees, as well as the key members of WUAs. It would closely coordinate
these activities with the Directorate of Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA).
3.4       DOS would have the overall responsibility for implementing the
swamps component (ongoing projects and special maintenance works) of the
project, including on-the-job training of middle and lower level swamps O&'i
staff. However, the provincial organizations would assume full responsibility
for efficient O&M of infrastructure, i.e. drainage canals, embankments, dikes,
roads, water control structures, bridges and jetties. The organizational
structure for O&M would be on a district basis, with centralized management
and administration at the provincial level. Similarly, DOR would have overall
responsibility for implementing all river-related components of the project.
3.5       BDP would coordinate the planning of all training activities carried
out by DGWRD. Chart 2 presents the organizational arrangements for the
implementation of training activities under the project. BDP would also
monitor and evaluate all training programs, conduct short training courses for
the provincial O&M staff, and administer the in-country and overseas degree-
oriented training programs. BDP would establish a data bank of the needs,
availability, and completion of training programs for PRIS. It would also
liaise with DAAD and the Directorate of IPEDA/PBB in matters involving
programming of training activities and joint use of facilities for training,
such as the agricultural training centers, rural extension centers, and
PUSDIKLAT regional training centers.
3.6       MOAp through DAAD, would be the executing agency for training the
action groups and the middle and lower level staff on WUA organization and
development. It would also coordinate the surveys, and conduct an inventory
and evaluation of WUAs. It would, in coordination with MHA, have overall
responsibility for organizing, reorganizing and developing WUAs.
3.7       The Directorate General of Taxation, through its Directorate of
Property Tax (IPEDA/PBB), within the MOF would be responsible for the mapping,
reclassification and reassessment activities related to PBB, including the
training of personnel. While the reclassification would be carried out by the
IPEDA/PBB Directorate personnel (from the regional inspection offices), the
inventory of land holdings and land holders would be carried out through



- 44 -
contract work by mapping contractors. Current PBB staff are handling similar
activities for the ongoing Bank-financed Kedung Ombo Dam, West Tarum Canal,
and Central and West Java Irrigation Projects. At the national level, a
coordination committee established under the Central and West Java Irrigation
Project (Ln 2649-IND) would also be responsible for the coordination of all
PBB-related activities under the project. The committee is chaired by the
Director of IPEDA/PBB with members representing DOI-I and DOI-II of DGWRD, and
DGFCA.
3.8       The BAPPENAS would coordinate monitoring and reporting progress on
the Policy Statement and Action Plan through the coordination at the
directorate or equivalent level of DGWRD, DGFCA, Directorate of IPEDA/PBB,
Directorate General of Public Affairs of Ministry of Home Affair., and other
relevant agencies when required. This inter-agency group, which has already
been established, in addition to providing overall policy guidance and
coordination would also be respcnsible for the supervision of the investment
strategy study and the institutional strengthening study (para. 2.35). This
group would meet at least once in every three months to evaluate the progress,
and resolve problems if any.
Provincial and Field Level Organization and Management
3.9       Chart 1 presents the proposed organizational chart for the project
components which would be integrated into the activities of the provincial
organizations. For each province, the PRIS would establish a project
management and implementation unit. The unit would have the PRIS chief as the
project manager, and its own support staff.
3.10      At the provincial level, the BAPPEDAS would coordinate project
implementation monitoring and progress, through coordination of PRIS, DIPERTA
and field inspection offices of IPEDA. This provincial level group would
receive technical guidance from the inter-agency group at the national level,
as well as from the consultants of the agencies concerned.
3.11      At the district level, the coordination and overseeing of project
implementation would be through the district Irrigation Committee, which is
represented by cabang dinas irrigation, kabupaten agricultural service and
other related services, and headed by Bupati. The Bupati, as chairman of this
committee, would get technical guidance from the provincial level project
implementation units, and the district services of the concerned agencies.
Under the guidance of the district level Irrigation Committee, a project
implementation unit would be established in each of the pilot areas for
irrigation service fee. This unit would be assisted by consultants, who would
carry out socio-economic surveys, formulate implementation plans, analyze
results, and make recommendations on ISF. In addition, a WUA at the district
level would be created in the pilot areas to assist in the assessment and
collection of ISF, and system-wide O&M planning and implementation.
3.12      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above
organizational arrangements for project implementation at national and
provincial levels would be maintained and strengthened (para. 7.1 (f)). These
and the district level organizational arrangements would be in place to
facilitate timely project implementation.



- 45 -
B. O&M Funding
3.13      Under the project, the budget for efficient O&M would be built up
every year on the basis of agreed guidelines and actual needs as determined
section by section of the provincial irrigation department. The budgets for
efficient O&M would be developed on the basis of actual needs at each cabang
dinas level. The budgetary procedures and accounts of O&M would be simplified
no later than June 30, 1988, with the aim of: (a) rationalizing different
channels of funding; (b) conforming to needs-based allocations; and
(c) expediting releases. This new system of procedures for O&M programming
and budget planning would be implemented from FY1989/90 onwards. The
consultant teams attached to the PRIS and the districts or sections would
assist in the preparation of annual budgets needed for efficient O&M, and the
O&M/planning and budgeting experts attached to the Project Coordinating Unit
(within DGWRD) would assist with setting up new procedures for O&M programming
and budget planning.
3414      Annex 5, Tables 4, 5 and 7 illustrate how Bank funding for
incremental O&M expenditures would be phased out, with GOI being expected to
increase its contributions correspondingly. These projections asqume that GOI
would introduce direct cost recovery from beneficiaries to enable the
Government to introduce and sustain efficient O&M on the entire public sector
irrigation network. As a condition of continued loan disbursements, GOI would
make annual budgetary allocations (for fiscal years 1987/88, 1988/89, 1989/90
and 1990/91), which at least maintain the fiscal year 1986/87 level of total
country-wide irrigation O&M financing under the Central Government budget
(APBN and APBD) in real terms, furnish evidence that satisfactory actual
expenditures for country-wide O&M were made during the previous fiscal year,
and provide a progressively larger share of incremental financing for effi-
cient O&M (in each of the fiscal years 1988/89, 1989/90 and 1990/91)
(para. 7.2(b)). GOI has already furnished the Bank with evidence that the
1987/88 budget maintains the 1986/87 budget level for O&M in real terms for
the entire irrigated area in Indonesia.
C. Accounts and Audits
3.15      Detailed accounts and records would be kept by DGWRD, the PBB
Directorate and each Provincial Irrigation Service for each budget item by
budget year. Each accounting section is headed by a certified public
accountant who reports monthly on budget and financial status. Internal audit
sections are responsible for visiting project sites quarterly and examining
local accounting records. Accounting procedures currently in use are adequate
to support SOE applications. Final accounts, including balance sheets and
consolidated receipts and expenditure statements, are prepared at year end to
meet Bank requirements. Project accounts are subject to two audits: (a) by
the Inspector General of the concerned ministry; and (b) by the Financial and
Development Supervisory Board (BPKP). The work of both auditors has been
found to be generally satisfactory on Bank-assisted irrigation projects.
Adequate and separate accounts would be maintained for the project; all
project-related contracts, documents related to statements of expenditure, and
orders and receipts would be kept for at 'east one year after the Bank has



- 46 -
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Special Account was made; and independent audits of each year's
accounts, incl.ding audits of SOEs, would be submitted to the Bank within nine
months of the close of each GOI fiscal year.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.16      The following agencies would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation: physical and financial progress (Level A of M&E) would be
coordinated by INTAL, the Secretariat to the Director General of DGWRD. INTAL
does this by sending standard questionnaires to all PRIS concerned. The
provincial or project officials concerned would complete the forms with the
help o: their consultants. Socio-economic impacts, crop incomes and margins,
crop production and support services and water management practices (Levels B
C, D and E) would be monitored by DGWRD's Directorate of Planning and
Programming, based on methods and criteria previously agreed with the Bank.
The M&E of water management practices would, however, be modified to include
criteria such as water use efficiencies and field staff understanding of
normal O&M procedures, such as operation of gates, estimation of inflows and
water charges, and maintenance of canal specifications. The physical impacts
of the project on O&M, such as percentage of the water demand that was met,
fluctuations in water use efficiencies and farmers' contributions (in cash or
labor) to tertiary systems management would also be monitored. The criteria
for e aluating these physical or real impacts on the O&M of sample systems
would be developed in consultation among concerned agencies, PRIS staff and
consultants.
3.17      There is a continuing program of strengthening the M&E capability of
the DPP. Most of its staff have been trained and M&E implementation systems
developed. The concerned PRIS staff would obtain technical guidance from DPP
and the consultants (para. 2.33) in implementing the M&E activities.
3.18      In the case of the groundwater component, a sub-directorate within
DGWRD (P2AT), with assistance from DPP in DGWRD, would expand the existing
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities with the objective of carrying out
baseline studies in each group of typical tubewell systems to enable project
impact to be evaluated. This work would be undertaken in stages. First, an
initial baseline study of the present situation would be made for selected
sample areas to be developed for each type of technology undir the project.
Second, the same areas would then be monitored on a regular and routine basis
by the M&E staff. The data would be collected on geological survey and pump
costs, as wells are constructed, followed by data collection on water quality
and well performance once the systems become operational. Finally, 3-5 rears
after the installation of the sample tubewell systems, the initial baseline
survey would be repeated to evaluate the impact. The data resulting from
agro-socio-economic surveys carried out during the investigation phase of the
Lombok subproject would be used as benchmarks for assessing the impact of the
project. ,
3.19      Training.  To overcome the present constraint of lack of follow-up
training and an evaluation of the impact of training, BDP would evaluate the
training programs. The evaluation of O&M training would entail assessments of



- 47 -
the individual or collective impacts on the efficiency of irrigation O&M in
selected sample systems, as well as feedback from interviews and question-
naires. The BDP would coordinate its M&E activities closely with the DPP.
The implementation of the training in M&E would be done by BDP in coordination
with other directorates and PRIS concerned.
3.20      The M&E reports would be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1988,
December 31, 1989, and December 31, 1990, and a Project Completion Report
submitted no later than September 30, 1991. These reports would focus on:
(a) physical and financial summary indicators measuring performance against
agreed targets, including expenditures on efficient maintenance, and operating
and water management standards; (b) impact upon project beneficiaries through
indicators such as cropping intensity, crop yields and net farm income; and
(c) impact of training provided under the project, including training for the
strengthening of WUAs.
Management Information System (MIS)
3.21      The requirements for improving the existing MIS are mostly covered
by ongoing foreign assisted projects. For DGWRD, funds amounting to about
US$1 million have been earmarked for che acquisition of a central computer,
software and operating costs under the ongoing Bank-assisted Irrigation XVI
Project. These funds would enable INTAL to install at least two on-line
terminals in all the DGWRD Directorates. The improved MIS would assist in
meeting the word processing requirements of DGWRD, monitoring of physical and
financial progress of ongoing projects, data banking on manpower development
and training needs, inventories of irrigation systems and facilities, and
planning and programming of DGWRD projects.
3.22      DOI-I at present has considerable computational facilities.  It is
currently computerizing irrigation system inventories for the entire
country.  Micro-computers would be provided under the project to meet the
monitoring and evaluation and management information systems' needs for O&M at
the PRIS level (para. 2.33).
3.23      The improved M&E and MIS systems would be implemented by PRUS,
assisted by DGWRD, from December 31, 1989 onward.
IV. CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
A. Present and Future Cropping Patterns
4.1       Annex 7, Table 1 presents yields for major crops in the project
areas. Total crop areas, crop intensities, yields and production for the
present (without project) and the future (with project) situations have been
estimated for the different project components (Annex 7, Table 2). Future
cropping patterns with the project for surface irrigation and swamps (which
are already irrigated and only need mainter.ance) would not change, and
cropping intensity would remain at 175% and 150%, respectively. For ongoing
projects, the cropping pattern would include increased secondary foods crops,



- 48 -
and cropping intensity would increase from the present 125% to 175% at full
development. The cropping intensity in the future for groundwater areas would
on the average increase from about 120% to 285%. These increased cropping
intensities would be possible because of increased extension efforts, better
use of inputs, improved cultural practices, and availablility of irrigation
water for growing crops, mainly secondary food crops during the dry season.
Some farmers also tend to grow a second rice crop depending on water
availability and market conditions. With GOI's thrust toward crop
diversification, farmers are expected to respond to market signals and produce
more horticultural and secondary food crops.
B, Yields, Production and Markets
4.2       Crop production intensification methods with the use of HYVs and
fertilizer inputs are well established in the project area, and farm surveys
indicate that improved technology has been adopted on more than 90% of the
area planted with rice in Java. The present 1985 average yield of irrigated
HYV rice in Indonesia is 4 t/ha (dry unhusked rice), while the average yield
for the project area is 4.5 t/ha for irrigated areas in Java, 3.7 t/ha in the
Outer Islands and 2.5 t/ha for rainfed rice. The project would increase the
average yields of irrigated HYV rice to 5 t/ha at full development, which has
been achieved under similar irrigated conditions in the country. The yields
of palawija crops under irrigated conditions (using ,roundwater) would
increase significantly by full development: ground-iuts from 0.8 to 1.5 t/ha,
maize from 1,2 to 3.3 t/ha, and soybean from 0.8 to 1.2 t/ha. Similarly,
under swamps and surface irrigation, yields of soybeans would increase from
0.8 t/ha to 1 and 1.2 t/ha respectively, while maize yields would increase
from 1.4 t/ha to 2 and 3 t/ha, respectively. Such yield increases are
feasible in view of improved O&M which would ensure more adequate availability
of water and a more efficient application of farm inputs. The main benefit of
the groundwater component (in Madiun area) would be the inclusion of a second
rice crop by some farmers and the increase in secondary food crops as a direct
result of increased dry season water supplies. Progressive farmers are also
expected to grow some horticultural crops (e.g., citrus, onions, garlic and
potato), where markets are available. Yield improvements for rice and
palawija crops occur because of the interaction of several factors such as
better extension, improved seeds, and the provision of a reliable and timely
supply of adequate irrigation water. The latter is critical because it
reduces the risk of crop failuress and induces the farmer to apply esential
inputs. Seeds, fertilizer and pesticides are readily available in the project
areas, and no supply constraint is expected under the project. Activities
under the ongoing Bank-assisted National Agricultural Extension II and III and
Seeds II Projects (Cr. 996, Ln. 2748 and Ln. 2066-IND) within the project area
would provide the necessary linkages.
4.3       The estimated annual incremental production generated by the project
at full development is given in para. 6.1. Details are given in Annex 7,
Table 3. About 90% of the marketable surplus of rice in the project area is
sold by farmers as paddy to private traders or millers. The numerous private
traders operating in villages in the area provide competition and offer
services such as collection and drying of produce. Milling capacity is
expected to be adequate for incremental rice production under the project.



- 49 -
Marketing of palawija crops is handled almost entirely by private traders, and
well established marketing channels exist, especially for soybean, maize and
groundnuts. Sale prices for seed cotton are fixed by PTP XXVII which collects
all produce and extends credit to the farmers.
V. PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND RECOVERY OF PROJECT COSTS
A. Prices
5.1       Economic prices for major agricultural inputs and outputs are
presented in Annex 9, Table 1. Farm inputs and outputs have been valued in
constant 1987 prices. For the economic analysis, with the exception of some
construction costs and all labor and internal transportation costs (where
conversion factors have been used), all inputs and outputs are priced as
tradables based on their border equivalent values, with adjustment for quality
differentials and transportation as appropriate. Economic prices for paddy,
maize, groundnut, soyabeans, urea and triple superphosphate are based on the
Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division forecasts made in January 1987.
Financial analysis has been done for the groundwater component of the
project. The financial rates of return for the three groundwater models
are: Lombok 18Z. Madiun and Surabaya 15%, and Sampean Baru 11%. Financial
prices for all commodities (Annex 9, Table 2) are based on the farm surveys
conducted by the M&E unit within DGWRD, and have been adjusted as necessary to
the farmgate prices observed during appraisal.
B. Farm Incomes and Payment Capacity
5.2       Farm incomes in the irrigated areas, where paddy is the dominant
crop, often planted in two seasons and sometimes even the third season, are
largely determined by the farmgate price of rice relative to input costs. In
1986/87 when production of rice exceeded domestic demand, the Government
enforced support prices rigorously by assigning greater weightage to the
impurity and moisture content, which allowed farmgate prices to fall below the
support level.
5.3       The payment capacity of irrigation beneficiaries has been tested by
the preparation of farm models representative of conditions within Java and
outside Java for 3 size groups (Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2). Farm holdings of
1 ha, 0.5 ha and 0.33 ha were tested in Java, and holdings of 1.5 ha, 1.0 ha
and 0.5 ha outside Java. The farm costs and returns were estimated at current
farmgate prices for these farm size holdings. In Java, the 1 ha size farm
would produce enough income to provide for the family's living costs and have
sufficient savings to pay additional O&M costs. The same situation exists
outside Java. Farmers with less than 1 ha earning extra income from off-farm
work would have sufficient income to maintain a minimum standard of living and
have savings to cover an irrigation service fee. In the farm models, the
minimum living cost assumed for a farm family is Rp 50,000 per month, or
Rp 600,000 per year.



- 50 -
5.4       Another set of farm models was prepared to show the effect on net
incomes, if farmers were to receive prices at government support levels
(Annex 8, Tables 3 and 4). If farmers could be guaranteed the full government
support level of prices, their net farm incomes would be improved as follows:
Table 5.1: NET FARM INCOMES
(Rp '000)
Price Basis                                      Farms by Size in Java
1 ha              0.5 ha               0.33 ha
Living costs and other
obligatory outgoings               751                  686                   664
Net farm income at current
farmgate prices                    985                  526                   369
Net savings                          234                 -160                  -295
Net farm income at government
support prices                   1,561                  814                   559
Net savings                          810                  128                  -105
Farms by Size Outside Java
1.5 ha              1 ha                 0.5 ha
Living costs and other
obligatory outgoings               815                  748                   685
Net farm income at current
farmgate prices                  1,371                  914                  487
Net savings                          556                  166                  -198
Net farm income at government
support prices                   1,622                1,081                  571
Net savings                          807                  333                  -114
5.5       As can be seen from the above, farmers with less than 1 ha would
acquire payment capacity by working off-farm to help defray their minimum
living costs. If farmgate rice prices could be raised to the government price
support levels, it would enable the farmer with a 0.5 ha holding in Java to
meet minimum living costs and taxes and other obligatory expenses and have a
slight surplus of earnings to pay irrigation service fees. The farmer with
0.33 ha farm in Java and 0.5 ha farm outside Java would, with government
support prices, be able to maintain minimum living standards and have a
surplus to pay for O&M costs if his farm income is supplemented with off-farm
earnings (Annex 8, Tables 3 and 4).
C. Cost Recovery and Operations and Maintenance Funding
5.6       The Government's objective is to completely eliminate central
government subsidies for O&M within a 15-year period. To do this, the
government should recover all the O&M costs through a water user's fee.



- 51 -
However, to assess possible future sources of funding and in view of the
overall payment capacity of farmers which is still to be assessed in each of
the pilot areas for irrigation service fee, the potential PBB revenue has been
included in the projections.
5.7       Actual details on levels of irrigation service fees and mechanisms
for collection would be worked out in the pilot areas. The projections on
possible funding sources (Annex 5, Table 7) are based on rough assumptions to
arrive at some broad indicative apportionment of O&M costs to the provincial
governments and the beneficiaries. These projections are in constant 1987
prices.
5.8       At the start, the Government is faced with O&M on 4.8 million ha of
irrigated lands and 600,000 ha of reclaimed swamp lands. This area would be
gradually reduced by the turnover of the smaller irrigation systems to water
users' associations. In the projections, it is assumed that 900,000 ha would
be turned over to WUAs by the end of the 12th year. By the 15th year, the
proposed irrigation service fee (even based on conservative estimates) could
produce an annual revenue of Rp 45 billion. The underlying assumption is that
only as areas are brought under efficient O&M, would they be considered for
levying irrigation service fee.
5.9       The projected phasing-out of APBD and APBN subsidies and the
combined increased funding of O&M from PBB and an irrigation service fee is
given in Annex 5, Table 7. As will be noted, it is expected that only DIK
funding would continue for salaries and related cost of personnel engaged in
O&M operations in the amount of Rp 5 to 6 billion, and the APBD and APBN
subsidies would be reduced to zero by the 15th year. Additional funding from
the irrigation service fee (Rp 45 billion) and possibly from PBB (Rp 40
billion) at 1987 constant prices could be in the order of Rp 85 billion per
year, covering almost the entire funding requirements for efficient O&M on all
the irrigated areas by the 15th year.
D. Cost Recovery Indices
5.10      Cost recovery indices have been adapted to the objectives of the
irrigation subsector project, which are primarily to improve the present
inadequate standards of O&M to efficient levels, and to recover these O&M
costs for the main and secondary systems from the ultimate beneficiaries via
the irrigation service fee. Consequently, the indices are estimated to show
the extent to which an irrigation service fee limited to only Rp 10,000 per ha
would recover the efficient O&M costs, and an index showing the extent to
which this minimum service fee plus any reasonable allocation of PBB for O&M
expenditures would recover the cost of efficient O&M and the investment cost
of special maintenance. The relevant data are given below.



- 52 -
Table 5.2: COST RECOVERY INDICES
Based on Discounted per ha Values (10X) over Project Life
(Rp '000 per ha)
For Efficient O&M
Project costs for efficient O&M                                   93.88
Project charges
Service fees                                                    65.41
PBB share allocation                                            29.57
Total                                                         94.98
Direct cost recovery index (X)                                       101
For Special Maintenance and Efficient O&M
Costs for special maintenance and efficient O&M                  219.34
Project charges
Service fee                                                     65.41
PBB share allocation                                            29.57
Total                                                         94.98
Direct cost recovery index (M)                                        43
5.11      As will be noted, the limited irrigation service fee alone would
recover 70% of the cost of efficient O&M. The service fee and the projected
share of PBB would recover 101% of the cost of efficient O&M and 43% of
project expenditures for special maintenance and efficient O&M. Over time, as
the appropriate levels of irrigation service fee are determined, and the
institutional mechanisms for its collection developed, nearly 100% of O&M
costs could be recovered by irrigation service fee.
VI. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.1       The proposed project complements previous Bank support to water
resources development in several provinces. Investments aimed at expediting
the completion of high priority ongoing projects and improving the efficiency
of O&M of existing facilities would have high economic returns, given that a
considerable part of the investment cost has already been sunk. In addition,
policy reforms introduced under the project, including improved O&M funding
and cost recovery from beneficiaries, strengthening of provincial irrigation
services, improving their coordination with agricultural and local government
services, and development of staff skills, should lead to better resource
mobilization and utilization, improved efficiency in selection, design and



- 53 -
construction of irrigation systems, and improved operation and maintenance to
the farm level. Major quantifiable benefits and beneficiaries are summarized
in Table 6.1 below. At full development an incremental quantity of about
650,000 tons of paddy, about 140,000 tons of maize, 100,000 tons of soyabeans,
20,000 tons of groundnuts and 385 tons of cotton would be produced annually.
About 1.6 million rural families would benefit directly from the project,
about half of whom have current incomes below the absolute poverty line, and
an equi ')lent of 0.5 million full-time farm jobs would be created as a result
of crop intensification.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF MAJOR BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
Benefits/Beneficiaries          Incremental production (in tons)
Production (in tons)
Paddy                                     653,068
Maize                                     143,595
Soyabeans                                 106,331
Croundnuts                                 21,189
Cotton                                        387
Number of Farms in
Project Area                               1,582,000
Employment (million man-days)                       135
B. Economic Analysis
Benefit and Cost Streams
6.2       Economic evaluation of the project has been carried out using both
internal Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value (NPV) estimations. The
derivation of economic prices is contained in Annex 9, Table 1. Analyses of a
typical ongoing project, and of the economic effects of special maintenance
and efficient O&M for irrigation and swamps (in Java and outside Java-
essentially using different economic price of labor), and of the groundwater
component have been made. Economic analysis of the effects of improvement of
small river mouths, to be carried out on a pilot basis, has not been made
because of insufficient data particularly on the quantification of benefits.
Agricultural benefits resulting from special maintenance and improved OEM have
been evaluated on a per hectare basis, taking into account increased rice
yields and intensities and/or a prevention of decline in yields (with improved
water distribution). Benefits from the institutional strengthening component
including technical assistance were not quantified directly, but would accrue
to the project. Hence the cost of this component has been included in the
total economic cost of the project. Costs quantified include all capital and
operating costs, excluding price contingencies and transfer payments such as
taxes and subsidies, but including physical contingencies.



- 54 -
6.3       A sensitivity analysis has also been undertaken to test the effects
of the decline in benefits, higher investment costs and delays in
implementation. This analysis has been done for individual project components
and for the total project.
6.4       ERR and NPV for the project components and the total project,
including the switching values on costs and benefits, are presented in
Table 6.2. The aggregate ERR for the project, estimated at 21%, is robust.
The project is relatively insensitive to cost overruns and to reduced benefits
from both lower production and rice prices. A 20% reduction in the benefits
would lower the ERR from 21% to 18%, and 40% cost overrun on all project
components would lower the ERR to 17%. The project is sensitive to delays in
implementation: a two year de'ay in the project benefits would reduce the ERR
to 17%.
6.5       Switching values were calculated for key parameters and indicate
that a decrease in benefits by 56%, and increase in investment costs by 177%,
would reduce the ERR to 10% i.e. equal to the opportunity cost of capital.
Based on two test cases, it is estimated that (a) if the projected rice price
during the 1990-2000 period were to decline by 20%, the ERR would fall by four
percentage points, and (b) if the recurrent O&M costs, in the case of ongoing
projects, were reduced by 50%, with a corresponding reduction in economic
life, the ERR would fall from 23% to 19%, and this combined with a two-year
delay in implementation would result in an ERR of 14%.
Risks and Uncertainties
6.6       As discussed above, the project is not excessively sensitive to
change in the main variables and its overall risk level is acceptable.
Several elements could, however, contribute to a lower than expected ERR for
the project. Among them, two can be controlled by the GOI and provincial
irrigation services: the timeliness of construction, and adequate O&M
funding. The risk of inadequate O&M funding has been gradually reduced in the
last three Bank irrigation loans to Indonesia (Lns. 2543, 2560-IND and 2649-IND)
by financing the mapping and reclassification of the project areas in order to
increase the PBB collection, and by obtaining GOI agreement to allocate a
share of the incremental PBB revenues to the 0&M of main and secondary
canals. While the proposed project continues to support a detailed program
for land reclassification and valuation in the project areas to generate
additional revenues at the local level, it also requires the introduction of
an irrigation service fee, which would contribute towards O&M costs, and a
turnover of small systems to WUAs which would also entail handing over of O&M
responsibility to WUAs. Moreover, the GOI's Policy Statement and Action Plan
aimed at addressing the O&M problem of the existing infrastructure, for the
first time on a country-wide basis, should help minimize the risks of
inadequate funding for O&M.
6.7       Delays in putting in place the organizational arrangements for the
project, inadequate staffing and delays in the award of consultant contracts,
and thereby delays in training, constitute additional risks. These risks are
expected to be minimized by the steps already taken by the Government to
appoint key consultants and to have the salient organizational arrangements



- 55 -
Table 6.2: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (ERR) AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
ERR                         Switching
Bene-    Investment                  values /c
NPV /a   Base    fits /b         costs       Lag    Bene-  Investment
Component                     (Rp bin)  case  -10%  -20%  +20%  +40%  2 years  fits           costs
Irrigation
Special maintenance and
efficient O&M /d
Java                      285       31    29    27    28    26        23       -74       498
Outside Java               85       26    24    22    23    21        20       -66       333
Swamps
Special maintenance and
efficient O&M /e             19       20    19    17    18    17        16       -52       180
Typical Cngoing Project          83       23    21    19    20    18         17      -58       168
Groundwater
Lombok                          4       23    21    18    20    17        16       -43       124
Madiun, Surabaya                2       18    17    15    16    14        14       -40        93
Sampean Baru                    3       22    20    17    19    16        16       -44       110
Overall Project
Case A                        481       27    25    23    24    22        20       -67       310
Case B /f                     407       21    20    18    19    17        17       -56       177
/a  Based on opportunity cost of capital of 10%.
7b  Benefits minus operating/production costs.
7e  Percentage change which reduces the NPV to zero.
7T  ERR for efficient O&M alone (i.e., without special maintenance) is 117% in Java and 90%
off-Java.
/e  Assuming shadow wage rate of Rp 965/day in Java.  ERR, if shadow wage rate is assumed to
be Rp 2,000/day (off-Java), is 13%.  Since the labor is expected to migrate from Java to
outer islands, the ERR of 20% (as shown in the table) is included in the estimation of
overall project ERR.
/f Includes costs of institutional strengthening and technical assistance.



- 56 -
for project implementation in place. More generally on the policy front, in
light of GOI's record in responsible economic management and demonstrated
willingness to carry out difficult reforms, the Policy Statement associated
with the project is a sound basis to believe that GOI is fully committed to
carrying out the necessary steps to bring about the desired changes in the
subsector. However, there is still a risk that implementation of some of the
short-term measures incorporated in the Action Plan may be prolonged by the
difficulties of policy and institutional change which involve several
different GOI ministries and organizations. The provision for substantial
technical assistance, and the proposed long-term program approach, in view of
the project being a 3-year time slice operation, should increase the chances
of success in implementing these reforms over a number of years.
VII, AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       Assurances were obtained at negotiations from 00I that:
(a) the project would be implemented in accordance with the Policy
Statement and the Action Plan reviewed and agreed with the Bank
(para 2.4);
(b) training programs would be carried out in accordance with the
timetable and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2e27);
(c) consultants would be selected by January 31, 1988 (para. 2.34);
(d) the environmental impact studies would be completed by March 31,
1990 (para. 2.35(c));
(e) appropriate measures for malaria control would be taken and these
measures would take environmental and health aspects into
consideration (para. 2.48); and
(f) organizational arrangements for project implementation at national
and provincial levels would be maintained and strengthened
(para. 3.12).
7J2       As conditions of loan disbursement, GOI would take the following
actions:
(a) make arrangements to ensure the availability of financing for
installation of the second package of materials and equipment for
groundwater tubewell systems to be procured in the third year of the
project (para. 2.42); and
(b) make annual budgetary allocations (for fiscal years 1987/88,
1988/89, 1989/90 and 1990/91) which at least maintain the 1986/87
level of total country-wide irrigation O&M financing under APBN and
APBD in real terms, furnish evidence that satisfactory actual



- 57 -
expenditures for country-wide O&M were made during the previous
fiscal year, and provide a progressively larger share of incremental
financing for efficient O&M in each of the fiscal years 1988/89,
1989/90 and 1990/91 (para. 3.14).
7.3       With the above agreements and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $234 million with a 20 year maturity at the
standard variable rate, including a grace period of 5 years. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 58 -                  Annex I
Page 1 of 12
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF POLICIES FOR IRRIGATION OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
I.   BACKGROUND
1.   Rice is the staple diet of the Indonesian population, and a large
proportion of the country's production of rice comes from irrigated
sawah areas. With a population growth rate of 2% per annum and
increasing per capita incomes, the demand for rice as a primary food
crop is expected to rise in the future.
2.   Concerted efforts have been made on a continuous basis from the
beginning of the first five year plan (Pelita I) to meet the increasing
national requirements of food. Since 1985, these efforts have
decreased the dependency on food crop imports, especially rice.
The nation's production of rice comes from 5 million hectares of
irrigated fields, which grow two crops per year on average, and from
2 million hectares of rainfed land, on which rice is generally planted
once each year.
The increase in production has been achieved as a result of investments
in agriculture such as the adoption of modern varieties; use of
fertilizers; weed and pest control; adoption of appropriate cropping
calendars; and investments in irrigation such as rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems and construction of new schemes.
3.   Water resources development by the Government especially in the field
of irrigation, both new construction and rehabilitation, within the
context of increasing food production, has already been carried out
with satisfactory results. Such investments have primarily been
financed from the Government's rupiah budget and foreign assistance.
The completion of construction is followed by the next stage of
management and care of the irrigation systems through what is commonly
known as operation and maintenance (O&M).
Operation       consists of activities to optimize the utilization of
the irrigation infrastructure.
Maintenance    consists of activities to care for the infratructure,
so that it can function as designed, thereby sustaining
the effectiveness of the irrigation systems.
Both activities should be carried out continuously, and supported by an
adequate budget, skilled personnel, appropriate procedures for planning
and implementation and proper facilities for their efficient
implementation, as well as to aim for increased quality of intensified
agricultural food production.



- 59 -                  Annex I
Page 2 of 12
Irrigation development during Pelitas I to IV concentrated on
rehabilitation (repairs and improvements) of existing systems and
construction of new schemes.
During this latter part of Pelita IV and approaching the beginning of
Repelita V, the time has come to give greater emphasis to O&M
activities.
4.   According to Water Law No. 11/1974, Section 12 and Government
Regulation (PP) No. 23/1982, Section 35, para. (2), the budget for O&M
of irrigation networks and related structures and facilities should be
borne by the Provincial Government. These laws also set out the
intention of asking beneficiary farmers to participate in O&M for main
systems and have overall responsibility for tertiary systems.
Recognizing that Provincial Governments were still unable to provide
the required budget for O&M, the Central Government has, since the
fiscal year 1974/75 provided subsidies for irrigation O&M through
INPRES DATI I (APBD); since 1984/85 such subsidies have been increased
through project funding for O&M (APBN). Maintenance of O&M budget
levels in the last two years, despite major cuts in total investment
expenditures, reflects the Government's new policy approach and
recogn:.tion of the importance of O&M, and its commitment to increased
expenditures on efficient and adequate levels of O&M in the future.
Nevertheless, the average allocation per annum is well below actual
requirements.
The inadequate O&M Budget, personnel, equipment and facilities will
lead to rapid deterioration of the condition of the irrigation systems
and affect their performance thus reducing food production, especially
rice, and this is of increasing concern to the Government.
5.   The problem which is now encountered is how to provide an adequate O&M
budget in accordance with actual needs of each irrigation system; this
will necessitate an increase in the budget to be provided for O&M.
It is necessary to mobilize new sources other than the present Central
Government allocation, in the efforts to increase the O&M budget and
eventually to reduce dependence upon Central Government budgetary
support, namely:
5.1 From Land and Building Tax (PBB)
This may not be a dependable source, because the revenues from PBB
are required for regional and local development, especially in
Daerah Tingkat II (level of Kabupaten).
5.2 From the beneficiaries of irrigation development in the form of an
"Irrigation Service Fee," which should be related to the quality
of service provided. The imposition of such a fee is in keeping
with Water Law No. 11/1974, Section 12 and Government Regulation
No. 23/1982, Section 35, para. (3). This is a more appropriate
and dependable source since it will be collected solely for
meeting the O&M budget.



Annex 1
-60-                 Page 3 of 12
6.   Besides mobilizing the sources mentioned in Section 5 above, especially
for smaller systems with an area of less than 500 ha, the
responsibility for O&M will be entrusted to the Water User's
Association.
This is possible, because there are already a large number of such
schemes managed by the villagers, designated as village irrigation or
communal irrigation systems (INPRES 1/1969). In this way, the
responsibility assumed by the beneficiaries can be further developed,
while reducing the number of schemes managed by the Government and more
attention can be paid to large and medium scale systems which cannot be
managed by the beneficiaries.
7.   The Government has formulated a set of policies which address six
fundamental issues related to the financing of O&M and other
expenditure in the irrigation subsector, under the following topics:
1.   Funding of Operation and Maintenance
2.   Cost Recovery
3..  Irrigation Service Fee
4.   Institutional Development
5.   Programming and Budgeting for O&M
6.   Rationalization of Investment Expenditures
B.   STATEMENT OF POLICIES
Policy 1: Funding of Operation and Maintenance
After completing irrigation systems, Government recognizes that in
order to realize the full potential of irrigation systems and to
maximize the contribution of existing investments to agricultural
production goals, future policy should ensure expenditure on O&M that
should be applied in line with the actual needs of irrigation systems.
Objectives:
1,1 To provide adequate and timely funding of O&M on all government
controlled schemes throughout Indonesia at a level sufficient to
ensure efficient O&M, and the introduction of efficient operation
and maintenance on the entire Public Works irrigation system
within about 15 years. In order to accomplish this, the Central
Government will initiate a gradual increase in O&M funding through
more allocation from the INPRES and DGWRD development budget.
This increase in funding is required during the early years but
will decline as Provincial Government revenues and irrigation
service fees assume a larger percentage of the total O&M costs.
1.2 To establish an agreed mechanism for ensuring that Provincial
Governments take a gradually increasing financial responsibility
for the 0&M budget of main irrigation systems from their own
revenuese
1.3 To ensure that adequate funding is applied in line with the actual
needs of the systems in areas which have already been upgraded and



- 61 -                 Annex 1
Page 4 of 12
efficient O&M has been introduced, an increase of the present
levels of O&M funding would be required. Also, that funds
currently expended on areas on which efficient O&M has not been
introduced will have their present allocations at least maintained
in real terms.
1.4 To give Water Users Association (WUAs) maximum responsibilities
for O&M, subject to the constraints imposed by their institutional
capacities and the technical characteristics, size and
administrative boundaries in which irrigation systems are located.
1.5 Within about 15 years, to gradually turn over the Government
irrigation systems of less than 500 ha each to the WUAs. As a
first step, over the period of Repelita V, most of the Government
irrigation systems less than 150 ha in size would be turned over
to WUAs. This figure is in line with the size of tertiary units
which, according to Government Regulation No. 23/1982, is now
legally the responsibility of the WUAs.
Policy 2: Cost Recovery for Irrigation O&M
The Government policy is that the beneficiaries will eventually finance
O&M costs of main irrigation systems.
Objectives:
2.1 To implement a cost recovery system which will eventually finance
all costs of efficient O&M of irrigation systems through increased
contributions from irrigation beneficiaries.
2.2 To improve indirect cost recovery and increase local government
revenue generation and their capacity for O&M funding, through a
long-term program to raise PBB revenues on irrigated areas in all
provinces.
2.3 To expedite the conversion of the Land Tax (IPEDA) system to the
new PBB system through reclassification and reassessment of the
market value of irrigated properties, and to ensure that the
system is implemented effectively and yields the expected
revenues.
Policy 3: Irrigation Service Fees
In order to directly recover the O&M costs from irrigation
beneficiaries in relation to the benefits they receive from a regular
and assured supply of water, Government will extend the collection of
irrigation service fees from the beneficiaries in other areas after the
Pilot Scheme period. Since PBB may not be a dependable source, the
implementation of direct cost recovery system, which eventually
finances all costs of efficient O&M of irrigation systems, should apply
irrigation service fee. These fees are expected to gradually reduce
the need for Government funding subsidies and become the main source of
efficient O&M budget for main irrigation systems.



Annex 1
- 62 -                Page 5 of 12
Objectives:
3.1  Starting from fiscal year 1988/1989, to introduce an irrigation
service fee (ISF) related to cropping patterns/systems in several
selected pilot scheme areas being taken up for efficient O&M.  The
implementation of the pilot scheme will also enable the
establishment and refinement of the necessary administrative and
judicial arrangements as well as institutional aspects, collection
mechanism and level of fees to be collected.
3.2  Based on the results of the pilot scheme, to gradually extend ISF
to all provinces for irrigation systems where efficient O&M has
already been introduced.
Policy 4: Institutional Development
Government recognizes the critical importance of effectively carrying
out irrigation O&M, and will implement effective measures and reforms
to strengthen O&M institutions at all levels. This will be done to
create adequate institutional capacity for improving the performance of
the existing irrigation infrastructure and efficient utilization of
increased O&M allocations, in order to continue to provide adequate
irrigation service and reliable water supplies to farmers.
Objectives:
4.1  To strengthen and where necessary to restructure the
organizational set-up of Provincial Irrigation Services (PRIS)
dealing with O&M of irrigation systems, down to Ranting Dinas for
uniformity, efficiency and effectiveness.
4.2  To clarify the roles and responsibilities of institutions dealing
with O&M by the end of fiscal year 1988/89. This would include
the redefinition of roles of DGWRD and PRIS in planning,
organization, directing and controlling O&M activities, and
defining the organizational structure and staffing needs at
various levels.
4.3  To design and implement a manpower development and training
program for provincial O&M staff and other agencies' staff at
various levels involved in implementing O&M policies and programs.
It is anticipated that this activity will be implemented by the
end of fiscal year 1989/90.
4.4  To strengthen the function of PRIS with regard to the management
of O&M through improved personnel management, and the development
of appropriate management information systems (MIS) and monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) systems.
4.5  To further develop and execute an integrated policy for the
functioning and strengthening of WUAs following guidelines
established in INPRES No. 2/1984, and functioning of Irrigation
Committees in line with PP. No. 23/1982.



~ 63                 Annex 1
-63-              Page 6 of 12
Policy 5: Budgeting and Programming for O&M
Government will simplify and rationalize the present budget mechanisms
for O&M funding by reducing the number of funding channels and
improving O&M budget planning administration.
Objectives:
5.1 To introduce improved systems and procedures for O&M programming,
monitoring and budget planning, by simplifying the present system
of allocations through both INPRES DATI I and DGWRD development
budget, changing to a needs-based system of allocation of O&M
funds.
5.2 To establish sound criteria and procedures for allocation and
monitoring of funds to meet the actual needs for O&M of each
irrigation system, starting at each Ranting Dinas level.
Policy 6: Rationalization of Investment Expenditures
Government will rationalize expenditure programs in the irrigation
subsector, and formulate and implement a more realistic irrigation
investment strategy for Repelita V0
Objectives:
6.1 To improve project selection criteria to be used and review the
technical and economic viability, in the assessment of the total
existing and proposed irrigation investment programs, with a view
to rationalize investments.
6.2 To improve the formulation of priorities for irrigation
investments and finalize preparation of a more realistic irriga-
tion subsector strategy and investment program for Repelita V by
the end of fiscal year 1988/89, taking into account the likely
availability of funds from different sources as well as
implementation capacity.



FTot t2
Metton P0*
?iletabatc
go. Policy title                 Policy atre                   .dlmt re= obj]cttis                 l.ttio  Prtoposed           By        Say stap.      (t00 PT)    initottog ldtaotot
t. ftudtas of            (a) Tutu.t  oItcy to entire         tt) Roaot  that tha ftwling       (I) Mitnuto 1986/817 lev1l    tep..n.   Prowioions  ed*   87/88.       kwdqat.vy *llocattor
Operotton 4               404u*t* fouwinS tor                 tot Ol0 on all                   of 041 toodiog tn  teat   MA         for 0O*  fou4tolg   *8/89.    am  roIe*$"
etoteconre               etficient at" tn lIne dith           tooertmn t cootrolted            teto   tot alL            Wm.        on *onal           89/9V  *
the aetutl  ."d4  Of atch.ms to at a                                   vtonoant cootrolled    MY          budgpta            90/91
tttlatipo  system                   sftfictent 11,t tin              stha.a  tram  Intnn  a
ttne glth act,-I otnds            0=x   d4othlopint
tor affictent0*9                *todgt oatavtFg PT11188
(it) tofu... tht la"l of    ttp t.    tProvtions _ad        S R8 /89    8dgtary alloatton
0oa  funoing froo thO     mu         for tos founding   A9/90 *    and tele.n.
oattooal budget,          NW         to budptary       90/9l
ptotloniel teat.          MT         atlocAtions
sodlor irtr4itton
coto   fesa t   aor on
on ohtih afftetat 0n91
ts pro*vcactvol,
inttodued
(b) turt ot ft aaoll orstai        (C) cti.  WAs _xsne               (i) lowntory and *4*titton  WV           Ptcpst tOtt tot   fnon        Agreed TOR
to W A'.                            rcoronsbitltti.a tor             of ceII Irtlaitoo         mu         Coouotiog
O*0, and ara4oalty toum          systew wtth a actyic      MU0        icroicc
rvet omll Itig tton              are. of lose tbe.
cyitaca lea* than                tS0 hb, *ntd cYt,t.                  Apwtnt_nt of    011/8
500 ha to  ater 'aost*           oath a setovce *atr of               Coneultonte,
Associattos.  toe                less thae  100 ha. bIplxnt coo-    98/99
.atr xoat trtigatioo                                                   tial  olt.-       89/90
ovatca. sarvnig laeos                                                 oAf,?I tn *e-
than 110 ha to WUA,.*                                                 laicd cia?..
ctthio lapaltta                                                       (pilot  rat..)
as agtccd
b.tva n Nd,
111* and N'o,,
Ger-tnea,'to
Si.) *a  eact cyct*l   tor    NM                             88/Rt      Stntco end detric, at..
turnitng  roa covr-  MtA                                       transfettrd.  l.tgtt
tog at Itast           MA1                                      aceoctettons of WA.
10,400 ha                                                      *stabhtlehd
b. Catrry ot *patia       WV                           8tt/l9      Special m_nt.  nob.
asntotenoc eovh  on                                            coopleted
selected syatam
c.  todn WA'- and         am         Sr?tatg           688/89      No. of WA'a traond
co ixunty orgfaoirc   MA
MA
d. tu   ovetr of smil    Wu          tutnt  v_r        09/90      lgo. of WA'., "Stem  and
yastam  1aa  than     mu                                       sotoia at.a to ba trta-
(up to) ISO ho          A                                      Cttedni
coq,lct*d
(Itt) Inotmpl nt tosto r of    WV          P?I. end          89/90       Syatem and ctrvte  *tes
041 of irrigaticon a-   WA          sonttor tiople-               tranctfterd.  Lar
tEN with  tutra At.    mu            gest aton                    a*uoctations of WJ.
of about 500 ha o0  2                                              astabitschd
pilot eea
(tv)  otltor cod evaloats     WV           ita n alectto,    09/90      RaCOmnodtioto  tor
all Ptlot $cheas to       MA         awl   pta tiou                nationwide toplamotettio
pooitda haes tot           tA        of a nationelde
tvo.tet of tttigtiton                prostr  tot
S" taS, 1atgar than                  trotetg oatt
150 ha                               aatm  ad
eatvoae ata.
larger than
110 h



ffi~~~~~~~~~~~T tab4
go.   oltto   title              Policy areas                 Idt-tere objOedtoc                   Action propMd               my        WbY OtY          (002 IT)     Critctortns tidIcetors
2. Cost i cotrty gor    (a) oeflestcetote Wil1               (4) Etutblish tedrct C_t          (U) iorov  provincial         lop         eltd te           -          gvenasse
1trrtptien fAN           *osntocl ly fince alt                ccosctt) y Olsten to  o        tteteo   g*oteet-           tMA        rvnue.aA
coots of OmA of Metn                tftn'eA tohr rearems             through Coetvtborednl Wt
Lrttgatloneysot ave                 SetSeartCtc   broqb nld          trw  bettonerteto s
fros_    ot Crr4sd areas
(it) inpedit. coerseeon of        (ii feecbop a pilot se)       NOT        prodection And    03154       A report indicattag the
IptiA to the  sn sI              (1,000 ha) of SUreY                  solacgcine  ot                C1opitti(Cd proc*dnce of
a7stes  chraon   roist-           0.1 gepii fo  ld             and  (dam-                           aootm
sifiteeto  Mod tees-             registration                         itficetton Of
eseme  of irrigated                                                   Plaot, hounMs-
areas                                                                 rtee aed Crete
(ii) tiproe revene Oetfos   NMt           VApptng, Te-      57/84       Aseae_nnct emomlted, aret"
moce of no ttro*th                   classttteatin    tt9/vO       ceed, and revenue
VcllSttctotto snd          n         Vd ftesse.-                   Increaees telh veer
rAe _esomot ot Ott                   _nt of ahout
irripted eto" to                     400nn ha of
todoests                             trr4tgted csre
by 14s9I90
(tti) tows tee eddttttr-  lot              Appoint too tee   04/P8       Adrsors appointed
tion through comPotert-              advisors en
cti    od  better                    reral no
PttoceuSOs
(tv) ftAigt  eed  IteP_not     1W?        training of at    8t/89      tNober of trdned  * esors
trdntog Program for                  Icett t71 s*-     p9/90       god tecticitens , tnech
S) Stftt nd aemtors end                                            vesr
tschotccaee                         techotiient
1.  strsttoon cr          Direcs t c -o*oso  ot _A  eoete     (t) t_trodors cc icrigatioo      (t) Select four Ptlot cres   MA, NIV   Agree in One-    DOe            Alinist riet Agrosmdt
fees                 fre  tirnigticn ohetefiiartee            serICc fe  for fAN               in Soth flesi sod    MA. otP   cipet to ibe                        obtet1d
btsroochtretstton sevic                 foadieg to selected              jays far destigocr                    tetrsdoctton of
fees 'Ohich gredoclit reduce            erec  being upgraded              t trodetotis  of irnige-             co IS? en a
the need for jie'eraet                  for efficiIent A& I, ted          t too serci cc fees en e             voehil  for
funding Subeidies sod fisello           soslosto the rueslie             total of St leest                     fending eff i-
.iii becoy the mi. sonrce of                                             il.lOhe                               cisni fAN.
tffittent inK boet tor st.                                                                                     Prepere 105 cod   03/AS       A"oointant otf teolteste
Irrcictton Statoe"                                                                                             oppott t0a&,l-
tents to intdy
jsSie cOd So-
Sist to the i-
ptemstettiq of
ItS
WV. SA    c eiV  d    retn d-  /SR       IAtectoe on chtt;     e And
-.-o op  cropped in dif-             sting autherity with
_lret estem                  collection ogete   of the
crop Oatld  lo ocel govefeses
to tm and Oe-
ippleetten.
plans. teilect
and trein per-
topiseinretion.   12/3A      Collecion of then.. is
socitocing and    oeasrde    pilot are"e
Prepare plan      01/Nf0      Agreed &edeisstrettve And
f or seteoeia,               Judiciel sOreogeemai  for
of foo to other              extenson to other creast



.. ~          ~            -4  . .   .............         .         ..            . .  ...        
IIo.  Poltey TitIe                  Polity at"                     bdt-terst objoettrvo                   Aettin  PoptOud               by            UV  tops        Tt.tobW        montlotonto  indtettor.
(GOt t't)
(it) Grodoult .tt0td thb            (0) I plemt wnsion               MA.4 lUl   sIeect Art.          1t2/00      Act" selected
Irrigation s*""ic  too             starting ho.  MO/M          10. Mr   tot atboslon           onvorde
to Irtrigted or.. to *od  on * csn,trpvtd.
*al  provines., sod                bWit  by 1996/92?                       I^lw nt tsa         t9s9/9t     Coiloctios  t c%arms
cos..qontlW r,'.dn                                                         Collection ot
CortrO Ia*nd  rovlOtail                                                    irrigation
Govetrmnt funding fr                                                       service  foo
irrigott io  0414                                                          f     hom kn.-
fictorie.
oteod on            1 t996191    Cotletttn of thartos
noItonoide
4.  loasttotinnul          (a) Strengthentnin  04  1n0itt-        () DeCtin  responsibtilttts         (t) Carry nor ao ta  ttu-        VWl        tpepare TO   nd   Ol/8R         G.nSntt.nt ppointed
Oowls.enc                  tion. at all 10e1t. to                 of inoitutoton  dealing              tioal.  trengtbhniog                   appoint Consul-
toProve usage ot irrtig-               tith Otih btwonn DOM               stUd  to  terift Vtl..                  tints.
tton *tnrt#traCtor*  od               4od PMl  (and tbair                 md responitblity of                     Coniult "I"A
ofltint    nttibsttnn Of               lnak  sIth 9RA &nd MA)             Institutions daltnog                    OSIlAR sd MA
0414 alitattoOs                                                           w11tth OM41  4nd to T*Vtow              duting study.
and spetity otaffloag                  C0    etod stadv   10/89         Recomtondattons agreed by
nd*l4 at 6ll lena).                                                    otlitrte. coocerned
(it) Implemaet re,-              WV, lOla   kgroa_nt by          12/09  Intordopt. 0   Itnstruettonn
_ndactions                  MtEOW       lotordopt.
FtDA
l550 in.tr e-
tins
Uli) 1tt*nnthbn orgasino-           (t) Vo6rmato no.  orgt nw- tp, 'MA   0vt0  vOltlng   02/R9                   AArod nev org.ntsottion*
tionol setup at Pits at            Lional  otop to    t        tt8ttAII    organizattonal                  torwl,tio
Il levels d4sulig with              tO4uir.nts                 5(A         setop
040 of trrtqitton
totem
(it) Dise.. at Prointnlol    PPk, PC    Rearting .th             08/90       Nt  PITS organisatton
Ih.-I and obtain *P-       FL          Pronteetil                      .t.blitswd (P  0A)
rroval tro& Provinctil                  Ltgislatours
tLOiOl.turs                             *n04 Isue on
tnstruet ton.
(tit) Fulfill  dditional          wrPv, KRA   Frond1  *ddi-       W0/89 6    Staff to plote
staftgng retqntesntos       ban,        tiontl ntting    R9/90
at distritt and lower-   mop            r*q4ir.nsntn
lhql units (tecludino                  tofr Iprovad
Pete nts and Juro.)                     PRtS portor-
so-ot tor otfi-
ciat A606.
teIlodin real-
location of
otaff tot
DCv11 to PR15
"a  me .s.r
(tit) Besns  Ond tuplotnt a          (t) Carr"  ut a srt.v  nn   NhW              Prop.?  tOR for   11/5t         TOM eo"PIetnd
onvomer d.veloornt                  _r_rows  dealomant                     eonsulttets
Vnd tratiIng progrst               noodo for 01 at &11
for 06t  taift at o*11             PUS lbol                                Appoint Consul-
(steln                                                                     tsots to            2/SS        Consultanto appointed
propirt rtet
msndation
Ag4red rtac-
asodat 10          Wa/88        fpleantation Of traintgs
ntordint Sote-                 progrs.
grated mnnpoetr
dtv loppenc



AgeU IOtI
-  t                                                                                       Vaiiiii of 12
TI(:,*ball,
go.  Polit  Trile                   Policy aras                     kdtui-tiar  objectives                Artloa prooed                 Bp         say stops         IOOl TV       Ifonltorlng indicatore
(it) Oas. S taff cepabill-    MOU, fA   Prepare train-    04/O0              Areed ttatning curriculs
ttie  of MIS In pian-   IDA             RSo currtcula
tog s4d Impleetntton
ot 05ft, vlth training                  teplsesut,
of at lest 3,000                        monttor and         1988/8§-   wubar of atolt triosd
iddle Rnd lfsoe-le"l                    *valuste            1949/t0
field staff. and S00                   trltnint
Staff (at le"at 110
trlnera, 225 all ieav1
e.andeer, and 6'
degree-level onglnsore)
by 19g4/90. Trvining
of snother 420 techit-
cal high *chool lewl
Staff (Ipngasats) nd
1,02n sctlmo,  ubse.e
tion and villag. level
stall, Traains of
1,300 staff (roup Al,
4,000n (roup 0), 8.600
(Group C) and 360
tn*truct"rs.
(itt) strengthenintl  of *udio-  NtW          Procursesnt of    06/4/         Purchase of required
visual program to                       additt.  1                     eqotpnt
support staff tratniag                   qui*.tf *,t
autarial *od
Oupplias
Tr4itnini of AV    0/SO9       !bnshr of trained stdfl
staff
(tv)  tWoVs personoal unwna-        it) lov-lop psrsonnel wAn-   D005D           Prare TOR for   Rose            Agrood tOR
t_Sont and introdura               agasest eyetwn to aup-   rPS            con nltaot
soproprst0  K6( snd RAE            port 04K * provesot
systoan at PRIS                                                            Appoint ronsul-   06/8§         Pinn   report and agreed
tants to na-                   recoond.tion. by O1
lyne & provara
r comondat tu.ne
TIptseat sn        03/v 0      Corner planing .stabitshad
personnel nn-    oneurds    lot PitS 0414 sttff
ogeanot systet
(it) Carry ot survey on 1HiS  Of             Prpare TnOR for   Done          hgread TOP
aod  49t noeds for 046m    POs          consulttnt
at PalS leval
Appoint consul-  0/S8        nPol report and reco_,
trats to  "ao-                 sndations aec ptad by
Iva  4 prepare                0050 mad PRUS
rvco=undettone
lepleont 1IS       12/89       Taproved 3I6S end '64  at
and  gli syatens   oaerds    PMIS level.



-8 -                                                                                     $      of I
Itastabaf a
No.  PolLty Titte                   litcy erye                 l1d1u  ttre objectives                Atto  proposed               or         tey stes        (Cot  FT) t      ottofvtg  oditeatore
(itl) Lvaluaete ietlop led  1WV, KR3A   tatbitoh               01/8S1      Ogred rtItert
Perforwaca of et leat  dnA            fetlon grouPs
10 eistting  Alls                    cod erterIa
for ev*lugtion
Carrr tot         0418        Nuaber of VUlAn *valtad
(tv) Strengthen Irrigation    11W, '0l1  eteoitoh cork-   17)16          Avreed curricula *od
Comttees (fasl nd         ItA         tea group to                  coordtiation _echantams
toter-agency coordits-                reet_  qatotIna
tien at arO toiat,l                  WPY? trattotg
YAbopateo *nd taeCtafn                program
levels through appro-
pritst tratnoto pro-
gro
fDplnusot         198lO/t9    Ober trtnod tn varous
agreed trdnattg   109/v00       ajbuoates *nd Kacceatan
Program tn at
least 10 pro-
votcec for 20n
ct ton, GrUo
ecebeo cod_n
0,000 SIPA ves-
bert. fetch-
lioh Hisblq
toordtost ton
(t) Str egthon at lacit 200  1W, tlOA   totohItch cork-   12/87        AIreed recomodstoade
edttot Iin WAod c-    m1m             Ing grrup to
tabilsh nw SPA. as                    prepare trato-
ro`cdir4d. with a sot-               tIg ond axten-
_  of 20                              et"n prolr*s
taplawct,          1901t4     Iaber of VlAs estabtlshed
mtittr aod         19S9/90    aod  h bara tratiad
prograoc
". tigettcg  D.i          (a) ttaltttcatita  rod rattoo-        t) totroadkcton of ia-           (t) Prepare atwltfted hod-  IAPPVIAr   atobti,tJop r,-   06nd   1        Arted recoamewlcttoas
Progr.ammig for           aleltioat     of oarebejee           proeed eyctasscod                 gattng arreoamwnotancd   WA1, 1109  to  group cod
04                        tor MIt uaFlttgtrogrn_                roerfor 0N fotlo, prasr-  vroeadurcfr fil 0C-ounts of 0411, alfed   IIW  prepare rocea
cing  aod budgat pinoS               programig,a wattorton             at rattionalizng dit-                  tndcttone
cnd budget plensing,              ferest channels of
chonsing to a tawde-             tbodtice  etaditaog
hoSed *yete  of                   ratisoo  of funds. and
atlocattoas                       contorato to  Mde*-
bsed altorttoo
(it) islpecent ne  $yetee       SdPTIIiJ  Prepare bkdget    1980/90    ippitcatton of sodfted
6ad procedures for 066   MA, Ml'  for 4b t bated        opuar4e    procedures
pregrsavtog and btdget   417          on no  *tapi-
planitoo                              tied procedures
(tt)   tbtbih  dac ted onto-       (t) Cloaetftcetton of Ogg    DOW          Cooplete t.wo-  0n/87 to  d4red mpg "od tIveotory
rt  od procedures for              ced., bnoed or direct                tory of ttrigs-   09/89
olorattoon  attitattton           OAN  cnd overhead cato,               tton  yttow
cod  onttorttg oet tufds          or ath ttrtiatton                     for ofttktiot
to "St ectI Made                  ,"tal                                 Nrt on at leost
for 041 of trrtgetton                                                   2S0.000 he by
actns                                                                  atd-19°2 and a
forther
406,0o ha by
aid-lP910



_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nT yf                                                   of 1 2
. _   _  .                      ..                                             .  .  _    .   _   .  ..-_  .._8                                 _  _1 _  _ 1.
no.  Politcy fit.                  Poltr* Are&                   Nadiw-tots obje0tts                    action pteoced               b              nines        (Got t)       MonitortingI tAdte*to
4alyo. cost        01/0I       Seeardod nl&N tost .0 a
etrottore for      onMwrda     M*t/Is*tto  bdot*, st.rt-
rteuired 064                   tt At marh  "thmt askot
nd prepa r                     lasat
budget roqst
aetordtwly
teplount ra-       1980/49    Provist" of tfn0  oee2ed
c4mm_ndd am       onamrd       t,o ctAr 0o0t .fftelont 0)1
costs for each
(ill) ProineLal romponst-           (0) I0bnr of $v,op* prol-   pr              %wado4wer to be    191URI/I    Ibudt And wtoft tron
btit,t for wome* 001              Otte  bo4ed oert to                    ceplated for I                  pro%lnoneO  (for projoect
pro,'tiotal atbortttts                 projto  od                     honded over)
eonced for
anothsr 
proj0eto
6.  RAt0o04i1attoo  of   (a) Ibttoonlt.attoo  of                 (6) Xmrov, prTarlct .010-          (t) Carry nat SO tovaotoeot  SAP.la    Appotnt cn00-   01/6t              CowOultanto  0*1o0nt0d
IOottweu0nt                6oPodttare progra    and             ction citteria  tetov              *xeondtturo t,otw 0nd    Mrw            tont0 wtth
oxpenditoreo               tmplemenoation of a Mor               the  ttbiltty of io-               atroteoi stody. ahith                  Agreed tOb
r91i6tlth  tn"o twnt                 vestdent prograe and               tclu40  a 4#tw1Ie4
stratogy for RIoeptta V               rottonlitsm project  As            rayvto  of  il1 00ter-                Couplte the         071811      a4re0d raCoV*Io tt-oo
"eoomary                           nail  .0.o6t.d And COt-                oto4
fundod prolects (both
OSo0inS 0a proposed)
(ta) ltabish bLvestnot              (2) ptparb  strategy cod       SAutfs    n lot. rero*    lOeA/S           ProotF  And tevs,teat
prlorIttes and imple-              *t tasst ptogro. by    km. "W A   anodntSons for                      attety for topeItto V
mnt a Mor  re.Istic                the .nd ot oga                         atote*e And                    prepared
strategy And iovet_nt                                                     l"oettot
progra  for lpepit. V                                                     0r101tr
(6ff) tIprove the priority           (t) ReVI.. of lo,oot.et         ApfOtq   lhvata  of so-       12114       List of priority proacts
ranking  rIterit    cod AM           ado fo or otgolag       tWv         cl. *conodc                     eoaplat*d
t" ri   plementatton               *tche. *n4 priorttv                    And tecetmttl
erhedule* for oo-goto*            ronking for copletlo,                 vrlbtitty ot
projectt                                                                  high o*1torty
0on-SOhn
sheh,



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Project Cost Summary (by Expenditure Categories)
Rp million                    US$ million        % foreign   % total
Local     Foreign      Total   Local  Foreign  TotaI  exchange   base costs
Investment Costs
Civil works                    143,733.7  107,427.1  251,160.8   87.1    65.1   152.2         43           49
Equipment and supplies          14,591.7   13,156.4   27,748.0    8.8        8.0    16.8      47            5
Consultants
Foreign                        4,386.7   28,939.7   33,326.4    2.7    17.5    20.2         87            6
Local                         30,238.5    3,172.3   33,410.8   18.3        1.9    20.2       9            6
Subtotal consultants         34,625.2   32,112.0   66,737.2   21.0    19.5    40.4         48           13
Training                         5,118.6    6,242.6   11,361.2    3.1        3.8      6.9     55            2
Studies and surveys                808.1    1,171.8    1,979.9    0.5        0.7      1.2     59            0
Administration                  14,487.3       419.5   14,906.8    8.8       0.3      9.0      3            3
Vehicles                           713.0       647.8    1,360.8    0.4       0.4      0.8     48            0
Land acquisition                 9,054.0          -      9,054.0    5.5       -       5.5      -            2
Total Investment Costs    223,131.6  161,177.1  384,308.8  135.2    97.7   232.9           42           75
Recurrent Costs
Establishment costs             72,811.8   57,587.5  130,399.3   44.1    34.9    79.0         44           25
Total Recurrent Costs        72,811.8   57,587.5  130,399.3   44.1    34.9    79.0         44           25
Total Baseline Costs             295,943.4  218,764.6  514,708.0  179.4   132.6   311.9         43          100
Physical contingencies            25,728.3   20,489.5   46,217.8   15.6    12.4    28.0         44            9
Price contingencies               26,595.4    4,944.9   31,540.3   16.1        3.0    19.1      16            6
Total Project Costs         348,267.1  244,199.0  592,466.1  211.1   148.0   359.1         41          115



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
GOI's Financing Plan (by Fiscal Year)
(US$ million)
Expenditure items         1987/88      1988/89      1989/90     1990/91      Total
Recurrent O&M /a           13.5         27.3         28.1         14.3        83.2
Incremental O&M              -           0.3          0.6         0.7          1.6
Land acquisition            0.6          2.0          2.4          1.0         6.0
Taxes and duties            1.4          5.4          7.9         3.8         18.5
Study (Investment
Strategy) /b              0.2          0.2           -           -           0.4
Total                 15.7         35.2        39.0         19.8        109.7
/a 1986/87 levels of country-wide irrigation O&M expenditures to be main-
tained in real terms. Figures for 1987/88 and 1990/91 given here are for
6 months each. Minimum recurrent O&M budget allocations needed in these
years would be $26.4 million and $30.0 million, respectively.
/b About US$400,000 is expected to be utilized from a USAID grant for finan-
cing the local costs for carrying out this study.



INDONESIA
Irrigation Subsector Project
Ilplementation Schedule
Irrigation iorks
1586ie7 il                Year 1 /2                       Year 2                     Year 3
JFNAMJJAS  ONDJFtANJJAS  ONDJFMAWJJ AS  ONDJFAhJJ AS
Special Maintenance (ha)
75,000
175,000
.......= -2.=2=.
150,000
Efficient O&f  (ha)                                   ---- --------
200,000
400,000
700,000
Small River Mouths (No.)                   ..
'5)
On-going Projects (No.)                     .  ---------
-_
(22)
Design             ..... 
Prccuresent
Implesentation
/1   Preparation Activities
/2 Project Year 1 (October 1987 - Septeeber 1988)



I1DONESIA
Irrigation Subsector Project
Implementation Schedule
Irrigation Works
Design                    Procurement                Implementation
Executing                         Starting   Completion                    Contract
Agency          Activity          Date         Date         Invitation   Award            Start    Completion
PRIS        Special Maintenance
75,000 ha        03/01/87   08/31/87         09/01/87    12/30/87         01115/88   06/31/88
175,000 ha        11/01/87   03/31/88         04/01/88    06115/88         07/01/88   03/31/89
150,000 ha        10/15/88   03/31/89         04/01/89    06/15/89         07/01/89   03/31/90
PRIS       Efficient Operation
and Maintenance
200,000 ha        Being mostly repair work   Work will be done             10/15/67   03/31/88
very little design work    either on force account
400,000 ha        will be involved which      basis or under petty         04/01/88   03/31/89
will be handled by PRIS    local contracts pro-
700,000 ha        staff.                      cured as and when            04/01/89   03/31/90
required.
DOR         Small river mouths   06/01/87   08/31/87            09/01/87    12/30/87        04/01/88   03/31/90
PRIS and    On-going projects    03/15/87   08/15/87           09/01/87    12/01/87         12/15/87   06/30/89
DOR         1st package of
sixteen projects -V
PRIS and    On-going projects    12/01/87   04/30/88            05/15/88    08/30/88        09/30/88   08/30/90 ,  "
DOR         2nd package of                                                                                       0 X
twenty two projects.                                                                                m  03
1/  Two ongoing projects requiring ICB would have contracts awarded by July 1, 1988,
and works completed by June 30, 1990.



- 74 -                                   ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Swamps: Implementation Schedule
(gross areas in ha)
Province                     Scheme                  Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Total
Completion of Ongoing Projects
Lampung             Mesuji Telang Bawang T                      6,000                6,000
Mesuji Telang Bawang II           6,400                         6,400
Mesuji Telang Bawang IV                     3,800      3,800    7,600
North Sumatra       Sei Kualsa                                             8,200    8,200
Total                       6,400      9,800    12,000   28,200
Special Maintenance
Lampung             Rawa Sragi                       15,000                         15,000
South Sumatra       Delta Saleh                       6,800    11,800               18,600
Delta Upang                                !0,000              10,000
Sugihan Kiri                                          16,000   16,000
South Kalimantan   Seluang                                      3,500                3,500
Balawang                                    5,700               5,700
Muhuc                                        F.C.      2,600    2,600
Tabungan                                    5,200               5,200
Puntik Terentang                                       3,200    3,200
Puntik Denela Benar                                    2,900    2,900
SeKalugah                                              3,400    3,400
North Sumatra       Percut                                      2,100               2,100
Sei Tuan                                                 300      300
Bandar Khalipah                                          650      650
Scanggang                                                550      550
Pulai Kampai                                             850      850
West Sumatra        Lumang                                                 4,500    4,500
Lasi                                          500                 500
Silaut                                      5,000               5,000
Anai                                            _
Total                      21,800    43,800    39,950  105,550
Efficient O&M
South Sumatra       Karang Agung I                    9,000                         9,000
Karang Agung II                             5,000      5,000   10,000
Delta Saleh                                 6,800    11,800   18,600
Delta Upang                                            5,000    5,000
Lampung             Rawa Sragi                                 15,000               15,000
Mesuji-TB I                                            6,000    6,000
Mesuji-TB IT                                6,400               6,400
South Kalimantan   Seluang                                                 3,500    3,500
Balawang                                               5,700    5,700
North Sumatra       Percut                                                 2,100    2,100
West Sumatra        Lasi                                                     500       500
Silaut                                                 5,000    5,000
Total                       9,000    33,200    44,600   86,800
Cumulative                  9,000    4'.,200    86,800



- 75 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Schedule for Handing Over Swamps Projects to Provincial Organizations
Province               Project                Year 1        Year 2       Year 3
Lampung             Rawa Sragi           H85 --- PS
Mesuji TB II         ST -------------------- PS
Mesuji TB I                          --------------------- PS
South Sumatra       Karang Agung I       ST -------------------- PS
Karang Agung II                               ST ------------
Delta Saleh                          ST --------------------
Delta Upang                                   ST ------------
South Kalimantan   Seluang                                        ST ------ ----
Belawang                                      ST ------------
North Sumatra       Percut                                        ST ------------
West Sumatra        Lasi                                          ST ------------
Silaut                                        ST ------------
H85 - Handed over to Province in 1985
ST   -  Start transition period
PS   -  Permanent Status.  Budget and staff fron Province.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Selected Ongoing Projects for First-Year Impleimentation
Costs
Civil   Incre-              (Rp mln, constant 1996)
Present      Future      Incremental  works   mental                 Vehi-   Land   Admin-
irrigated   irrigated    irr4gated   sunk    civil          Total   cle and  pur-   istra-
Province                    Project            Agency   area (ha)   area (ha)    area (ha)   cost    works           cost    equip.   chase   tion
Aceh                Alue Ubai                  DOI 1       2,641        2,785            144       1,219   3,020    4,239        127       72    95
Irienggading              DOI I       1,909        1,909              0       2,227   4,497    6,724       182       383   139
Pandrah                   DOI 1       1,002         1,002             0       1,305   1,479    2,784         85      479    74
North Sumatra       Wampu Rivez R /a           DOR             0        1,398          1,398      39,840   3,168   43,008        40    1,674   285
Bengkulu            Air Musi Kejalo            DOI 1         236        1,180            944       2,346   3,488    5,834        58         0    28
South Sumatra       Air Gegas I                DOI 1         587        2,670          2,083       9,100   2,147   11,247        97         0    63
Lampung              Tulong Mas                DOT 1           0        3,200          3,200       2,068   9,041   11,109       235       392   195
Way Curup I               DOI 1       1,420        2,220            800       3,241      695    3,936        20        0    35
Mesuji I, II & IIIA /b  DOS          12,400       20,000          7,600       3,055   6,911    9,966         20        0    44
West Kalimantan    Sanggau Ledo                DOI 1            0          555           555       1,573      605    2,178        76         8    51
South Splawesi      Sanrego                    DOI 1           0        6,394         6,394       14,530   9,015   23,545       412       484   380
Pamukulu                  DOT 1       3,000        4,400          1,400       8,800   1,423   10,223        60        28    83
Central Sulawesi   Parigi Poso (part)          DOI 2       1,122        3,398         2,276            0   5,898    5,898       240       156   240
North Sulawesi      Marissa                    DOT 1       1,200        2,576          1,376       2,655   1,902    4,557        88        22    50
West Java            Cesanggarung R /a         DOR         6,040       10,608          4,568      10,350   3,138   13,488         24      288   204
East Java            Gondang R /a              DOR         3,678        4,325            647      25,353   1,617   26,970        64         0    32
/a  River projects.
71  Swamps projects.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Groundwater Component - East Java and SulawesJ
Implementation Schedule
Unit
Quantity    cost    Area                   Y(sr '         Year 3         Total         Year 4          Year 5
Description                     (no.)      (Rp M)   (ha)   Year 1/a    No.-P  t          No./Rp M       No./Rp M      No./Rp M       No./Rv M
Sampean Baru
Tubewell systems                 80               2,000                20              20            40             20            20
(25 ha/18-23 hp)                        84.0                               1,680          1,680         3,360          1,680         1,680
East Java
tntermediate Technology         100                Poo                 30             30            60              30            10
(8 ha/5-7 hp)                           13.3                                 399            399           798            399           133
Hand drilled systems            500               1,500               150             150           300            150            50
(3 ha/3.5 hp)                            0.7                                 105            105           210            105            35
Central Sulawesi (Palu)
Intermediate Tecinology          20                 120                 5              1'            20
(6 ha/5-7 bp)                           14.8                                  74            222           296
South Sulawesi
Intermediate Technology          25                 150                10              15           25
(6 ha/5-7 hp)                           13.8                                 138            207           345
Total                    725              4.570                215 / 2,396   230 /2.613   445 / 5.009   200 / 2.184   80 / 1,848
<-- -  ---- --- 1st time slice -            -      -  -  -  -->-- 
/a  Preparation activities.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Groundwater Component - Lombok
Implementation Schedule
Quantity    cost    Area   Year I/a          Year 2          Year 3          Total           Year 4          Year 5
Description                      (no.)      (Rp M)   (ha)   No.tRp M         No./Rp M       No./RV M         No./Rp M       No./Rp M        No./Rp K
Intermediate Technology
Without sump                       15      16.8        105                 5     84.0    5       84.0   10    168.0    5        84.0    15    252.0
(12 1/s, 5 hp)
7 ha
With sump                         25       22.8       250                  7    159.6    9    205.2   16    364.8    9    2^5.2    25    570.0
(12 1/, 8 hp)
10 ha
Turbine Pump Systems
15 1/s, 10 ho, 10 ha              50       38.9       S00                15    583.5   20    778.0   35  1,361.5   15    583.5    50  1,945.0
20 l/s, 15 hp, 14 ha              50'      45.5       700                15    682.5   20    9C1e.0   35  1,592.5   15    682.5    50  2,275.0
Pilot schemes /b                   4       29.7        60  4   118.8                                     4    118.8                       4    118.8
Well Drilling (1OZ failures)         14       15.8                           4     632      5      79.0    9    142.2    5        79.0    14    221.2
Total                                       1,615  4   118.8   46  1,572.8   39  2,056.2  109  3,747.8   49  1,634.2   158  5,382.0
< ----------- - --- -  lst time slice ------>
/a  Preparation work.
_   Wells already drilled.



- 79 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 9
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Land Reclassification, Valuation and Strengthening of Directorate of IPEDA
Implementation Schedule
FY                              Year 1           Year 2           Year 3
I II  III  IV   I  II  III  IV   I II  III  IV
Consultants                      -----------------------
Aerial photos
Pilot scneme 
Mapping                               ----------------------------------------
Development of reclassi-
fication + revaluation              -
system
Reclassification                             -------------------------------
Training                                 --------------------------------
Institution Strengthening               --------
Plan
Implementation of Institu-
tional Strengthening Plan                  -------------------------------



- 80 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 10
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PR.OECT
A Pilot Scheme of Mapping for Land Reclassification
(5,000 ha)
Implementation Schedule
Months           October     November       December      January
Activities                         1987                                     1988
Production of line-map
Production of village map
Enlargement of photos
Enlargement of photomaps
Updating village map
Production of rincikan maps
Field measurements of
parcels and plots                               __      _______
Identification of plots
boituLdaries & owners
Report



81                               ANNEX 2
Table 11
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Ongoing Land Reclassification Program
(-000 ha)
FY 0      FY 1       FY 2      FY 3       FY 4
Area (ha)                      1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91
WTC I /a                                233.500
WTC II /a                               266,500
KDO /b                                103,000
C&W /c                                    699,000 (8 packages)
ADB /d                                                80,000
/a The first and second mapping contract under the West Tarum Canal
Improvement Project (Ln 2560-IND).
/b The Kedung Ombo M. Dam and Irrigation Project (Ln 2543-IND).
/c The Central & West Java Provincial Irrigation Project (Ln 2649-IND).
/d The third irrigation package financed by the Asian Development Bank.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Ten-Year Land Reclassification Program
(area in '000 ha)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10
W. Java                     0          0         0         20         35        100       232        287        342         397
Jatiluhur                   0          0         0         20         30         70       131        166        201         236
C. Java                     0         0          0         20         80        220       305        338        381         436
Yogyakarta                  0          0         0         10         28         28         33        48         67          67
E. Java                     0       100        179        214        279       344        454        509        564         626
N. Sumatra                  n         0         37         57         69         69        79        104        129         154
W. Sumatra                  0          0        15         35         43         43         53        81        109         137   s
S. Sumatra                  0         0         15         31         31         31        36         55         55          55
Lampung                     0         0         15         35         70         ,0        75         85         95         105
S. Sulawesi                 0         0         15         32         32         32        42         62         82         102
NIB                         0         0         20         55        103        103       108        113        123         133
New projects                0         0          0          0         50        100       140        160        180         200
Total              0        100        296       529        850      1,210      1,68b     2,008      2,328       2,648
Cumulative area             0        100       396        925      1,775     2,985      4,673      6,681      9,009      11,657
Note:  In Year 1, a pilot area of about 5,000 ha will be established to assess the current mapping procedures and to
develop a simplified procedure for mapping.



- 83 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 13
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Introduction of Irrigation Service Fee (ISF)
Implementation Schedule
Recruitment of consultants                                            01/31/88
Establishment of provincial- and district-level
implementation units                                               12/31/87
Completion of village socioeconomic profile survey            }
Formulation of implementation plan for ISF                    }
Review of implementation plans and legal implications         }       07/31/88
Selection and training of personnel                           }
Extension work                                                }
ISF collection                                                     12/88 onwards
Monitoring and avaluation                                           12/88-11/89
Final report including the plan for extension of ISF to
other areas                                                          01/90



- 84 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
PROPOSED APPROACH TO O&K PROCEDURES
Select areas suitabl                               Select areas requiring
for direct O&                                    special maintenance
t Carry out survey, design
and construction, until
areas ready for efficient
06K
Analyze at section and subsection level:
- staffing levels and structure
- staff duties and responsibilities
- staff education and training background
* existing O&H facilities
* existing O&N procedures
- scheduling
- data collection
* reporting periods
- division of responsibilities for system control
- maintenance work identification reporting and repair
- existing and historic levels of O&N funding
Identify suitable personnel to be trained as trainers.
Make recommendations to facilitate the introduction of efficient O&H pro-
cedures. Areas where changes/adjustments may be required are:
- Staffing - levels, structure, duties and responsibilities
- O&K procedures
* O&H budget allocations
Implement agreed changes/adjustments and prepare material and equipment
for introducing efficient O&M procedures.
Prepare training program details and material.
Train selected staff as trainers to assist in introducing efficient O&0
procedures.
Introduce efficient 06M procedures in order to familiarize 06M staff with
changes/amendments (if any).
Commence training program in section office followed by each subsection i4
turn.
Monitor introduction of efficient O0m procedures and training program.
Evaluate implementation of efficient O&K procedures. Make considered
changes/a.endments if required. Reinforce OK procedures by additional
training.
Evaluate training program, make changes/amendments as required. Repeat
training lf required in selected locations.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Training and Related Activities
Target                    Lead
parti-                implementing       Cooperating
Brief description                                  Type of training           cipants   Location       agency           agencies
Overall coordination in planning                                                   -         -      BDP                DOI-I, DOt-II,
programming and training modules                                                                                       DAAD, DOS
preparation
Data banking services for timely and                                               -         -      BDP                DOI-I, DOI-II,
effective dissemination of training                                                                                    INTAL DAAD, DOS,
material and information; coordination,                                                                                DOR, Division of
monitoring and evaluation of training                                                                                  Personnel
activittes and analysis of traiuing needs                                                                                              I
Monitoring and evaluation of DSWRD                                                 -         -      BDP                PRIS, DOI-I,
training activities including individual                                                                               DOI-II, DOS
and collective impacts of training
Manpower planning to identify training                                             -         -      Division of Per-  BDP, DOI-I,
needs for PRIS staff                                                                                sonnel, DGWRD      DOI-IT, PRIS
Short-Term BDP Courses
(a) O&M for Ir and BE level engineers              Formal lectures with          150    PUSDIKLAT  BDP                 PRIS, DOI-I,
one month duration, 25 participants            field practice                       RTCs                           DOI-IT
per batch, regularly offered Diklat
course



Target                    Lead
parti-                implementing       Cooperating
Brief description                                  Type of training           cipants   Location       agency           agencies
Short-Term BDP Courses (cont-d)
(b) O&M for STM (Technical High School)            Formal lectures with          425    PUSDIKLAT  BDP                 PRIS, DOI-I,
level staff, one month duration,               field demonstrations                 RTCs                           DOI-II
25 participants per batch, regularly
offered Diklat course intended for
middle and lower levels main systems
O&M staff
(c) O&M for Swamp Irrigation, for Ir and BE        Formal lectures with          100    PUSDIKLAT  BDP                 DOS, PRIS
level staff, one month duration with           field practice                       RTCs
25 participants per batch, regularly
offered Diklat course
(d) Groundwater Planning, Constrlction and         Formal lectures with           25    DIKLAT      BDP                DOI-II, PRIS
O&M for Ir and BE level staff, one month       field demonstration                  RTCs
duration, 25 participants per batch,
regularly offered Diklat course
Di loma or Degree-Oriented Courses
Ta) Bipowered (in-country), diploma oriented       Formal diploma or              72    Bandung    BDP                 PRIS, DOI-I,
course started with Dutch government           degree course works                                                 DOI-II, DOS, DOR
assistance and pattern after the 11 month
Diploma Training Courses offered by the
Institute of Hydraulic Engineering,
Delft. Specializations are in the fields
of irrigation and drainage, development
of swamps and coastal areas and rivers                                                                                     I'4I
and river structures
0 I
VW



Target                    Lead
parti-                implementing-      Cooperating
Brief descript'in                                  Type of training           cipants   Location       agency           agencies
Diploma or Degree-Oriented Course (cont-d)
(b) overseas training ror MSc level degrees        Formal degree course           26    Overseas   BDP                 DOI-I, DOI-II,
for Ir and BE level staff, examples are        works                                                               DOS, DOR, PRIS
the Master of Engineering Courses for
17 to 21 months at the Roorkee and Anna
Universities in India.
Main System O&M Staff Training for Surface Irrigation Areas
(a) In-service training for section and lower    Lectures and in-          3,050 for    On-the-    DOI-I               PRIS, DOI-II,
level main systems O&M staff.  Initial         field practice and    initial &    job                              DOS, DOR
training of 6-day duration (broken by          demonstration          4,310 for
two-day rotations) and with follow-up                                 follow-up
on-the-job training of similar duration                                training
(b) Trainers for in-service training.  Senior    Lectures and in-                100    PRIS,       DOI-I              PRIS, DOI-TI -
level O&M staff of the PRIS and DOI-I.         field practice and                   Jakarta
One to two months duration                     demonstration
(c) Workshop for middle-level provincial, dis-   Workshop                      1,500    Province,  DOI II              DOI I, DAAD,
trict staff (Group A)                                                               District                       MOH, PRIS,
DIPERTA, local
government
(d) Training for lower-level staff at subdis-    Lectures, field de-          4,040    Subdis-    DOI TI               DOI T, PRIS,
trict and village level (Group B)              monstration, dis-                    trict,                         DIPERTA, local
cussion                             Village                        government
(e) Training instructors (Group I)                 Lectures, discussion          360    Province   DOI II              DOI I, PRIS,
DIPERTA, local
government
A!!
O " 
0



Target                    Lead
parti-                implementing       Cooperating
Brief description                                  Type of training    -   cipants   Location          agency           agencies
Main System O&M Staff Training for Surface Irrigation Areas (cont'd)
(f) WUA members training, intended for WUA key   30? lecture; 30%              8,810    Subdis-    DOI-II              DAAD, District
members and jurus.  The training will be       audiovisual presen-                  tricts                         and subdistrict
for about 15 days (broken down with 2-3 day  tation; 40% field                      and farmers                    authorities,
rotations).  The focus will be mainly on       demonstration and                    fields                         DOI-I, DOR
constraints to tertiary systems O&M; inter-  discussion
actions among design philosophy, main system
operation and tertiary O&M; water use and
distribution, simplification of tertiary
systems, operation including gates and
other control structures, duties and respon-
sibilities of WUA in irrigation O&M; OEM
practices and cropping systems inter-
actions, canal maintenance and integrated
approach to WUA formation and functioning;
so-called Grour C training.
(g) Follow-up of WUA members training for          Mainly on-the-job.          6,710    RECs and   DOI-II              DAAD, District
about the same duration                        Include field                        farmers                        and subdistrict
demonstration, audio-                fields                        officials,
visual presentation                                                DOI-1, DOS
and discussions.
Production of Audiovisual Materials
Production of audiovisual materials                                                               PPAV               DOI-II, DAAD,
relevant to main and tertiary systems                                                                                DOI-I, PRIS
O&M for training purposes and general
public information
a  
9  



Target                    Lead   _
parti-                impletentinj       Cooperating
Brief description                                  Type of training           cipants   Location       agency           agencies
Main System O&M Middle and Lower Level Main System                                                                     DOI-I, DAAD,
DOI-II, PRIS
(a) O&M for middle and lower levels staff          On-the-job                    152    Job sites  DOS                 DOI I, DAAD
in irrigated swamp areas.  Initial                                                                                 PRIS, DOI-11
10-12 day training broken down into
3 to 4 day duration intervals
(b) Follow-up training at yearly intervals         On-the-job                    242    Job sites  DOS                 DOI-I, DAAD,
PRIS, DOI-II
(c) Trainers Training for 6-week duration          Lectures, audiovisual          10    Provinces, DOS                 DOI-I, DAAD, @
and field visits                    Jakarta                        PRIS, DOI--II
Training of Community Or;anizers
(a) Training of Action Group on WUA                Lectures for 4 weeki.         201    Agric.      DAAD               Local govern-
Organization and Development for               3 weeks for field                    training                       mental institu-
2 months                                       practice and 1-2 weeks               centers,                       tions, DOI-II,
for wrap-up and eva-                job sites                      DOI-I, DOS
luation
(b) Training of section, subsection                Lectures and field          1,020    Agric.      DAAD               Local govern-
and village staff for WUA organi-              practice with 2-3 days               training                       mental institu-
zation, reorganization and                     wrav-up session                      centers,                       tion, DOI-It,
strengthening for one month                                                         job sites                      DOI-I, DOS
Training of IPEDA Field Staff.  Four month         Lectures and exercises.       360    Regional   Directorate of    BDP         D z
training consisting of 3 modules each on           Training for 4 months for            field       IPEDA         
ground survey, use of aerial photos and            the regional and field               offices
data processing                                    office staff.  Formal co.            Jakarta                                  9 . w



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Consultancy Services for Project Implementation
(Man-months)
Foreign consultants               Local consultants
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Total  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Total
Special maintenance and efficient OEM for
irrigated areas                                       84     150       90      324    153      324      279     756
Special maintenance and efficient O&M for swamps    12           17      18       47     48       66       51     165
Ongoing projects (supervision of detailed design)    -            -      11       10       -       -       35       35
Core design units (South Sulawesi and Lampuutg)          6       24      18       48       6      24       18      48
Ongoing projects (construction supervision)
Irrigation                                            63     130       40      233     97      331     262      690
Swamps                                                12      24       18       54      9       24       18      51
Rivers                                                18      36       15       61 t-8          92       40     150
Small river mouths
Identification, study and design                       -       -        9        9      -        -       18      18
Construction supervision                              12       -        -       12     30        -        -      30
Efficient O&M                                          -       -        -        -      -       12       12      24
Groundwater development
East Java                                              5       15      15       35     20       50       50     120
Lombok                                                15      45       40      100      5       65      100     130
Turnover of small systems
Central level                                          6       12       6       24      13      23       11      47
Regional level                                         -       -        -        -     36      116      102     254
Land reclassification and valuation                     10       20      10       40      24      48       48      120
Irrigation service fee
Central level                                         11      22       10       43      6       18       10      34
Regional level                                        12      14        -       26     34       58       32     124



- 91 -                                                          ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUB'vCTOR PROJECT
Consultancy Services for Institutional Development
Foreign                                        Local
Total man-months                               Total man-months
No.  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Total    No.  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Total
Diklat and Personnel Division
Training management expert                1        6        12        12       30       1        6        12        12       30
Monitoring and evaluation expert          1        6        12        12       30       3       18        36         o6      90
Traintag expert                           1        6        12         6       24       1        6        12        .2       30
Manpower planning expert                  1        6        12        12       30       1        6        12        12       30
Directorate of Irrigation (1 for on-the-job traintng of staff for main systents 0&M)
O&M experts and training
specialist                              5       24        48        18       90       9       54       108        30      192
Directorate of Irrigation (2 coordination training and workshop for Provincial Staff and W;A Training)
O&M and on-farm with                      3       18        36        36       90       5       30        60        60      150
management soecialist
Training speciallst                       1        6        12         8       26       1        6        12        12       30
Audio-visual material
production expert                       1        6         4         -       10       1        6        12        12       30
Directorate of Swamps for On-the-Job Training Coordination in Swamp Areas
Training specialist                       1        6        12         9       27       1        6        12        12       30
Directorate of Planning and Programming PSME and PCR
PBMR expert                               1        6         6         -       12       7       42         -         -       42
Directorate of tAricultural Area Development (DAAD), Ministry of 4griculture for WUA Organization and Screngtbening
Community organization expert             2       12        24        24       60       5       30        60        60      150
On-farm water manageaent expert           1        6        12        12       30       3       18        36        36       90
Training specialist                       -        -         -         -        -       2       12        24        24       60
Institutional Organization Study
Irrigation and drainage engineer          1        6         -         -        6       -        -         -         -        -
Institutional developmeat expert          1        6         -         -        6       1        6         -         -        6
Management systems analyst                1        6         -         -        6       1        6         -         _        6
Financial systems analyst                 1        6         -         -        6       -        -         -         -        -
Legal, water resources legislation    -            -         -         -        -       1       10         -         -       10
Investment Review/Strategy Study
Economists                                3       18         -         -       18       -        -         -         -        -
Economists with irrigation and
drainage background                     -        -         -         -        -       6       36         -         -       36
Environmental Study                         1        6         -         -        6       6       32        38        12       82
Management Information System               -        -         -         -        -       2       12        12         -       24
General Coordiration                        3       24        36        10       90       1        8        12        10       30



- 92 -                               ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Central Government Funding of O&M
(Current terms)
Fiscal                  APBD     APBN      Total           Area          Ave./ha
year                        --- Rp mln --------           (ha)            (Rp)
1979/80               13,267          0    13,267        4,474,706        2,965
1980/81               19,971          0    19,971        4,541,186        4,398
1981/82               26,009          0    26,009        4,574,776        5,635
1982/83               31,235          0    31,235        4,573,577        6,829
1983/84               32,895          0    32,895        4,637,625        7,093
1984/85               30,732    13,438    44,170         5,202,842        8,490
1985/86               32,424    13,999    44,423         5,184,025        8,955
1986/87               31,846     8,131    39,977         4,799,333        8,330
1987/88/a             31,846    11,700    43,546        4,859,333        8,961
/a  Includes additional APBN allocation of Rp 4.5 billion approved by BAPPENAS
on March 18, 1987.
Source: DGWRD, March 1987.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Funding of O&M in the Selected Provinces, 1986/87
From APBD             From APBN                     APBD4-APBN               Estimated DIK    Total all sources
Ha       Rp mln       Ha       Rp mln         Ha        Rp mln      Rp/ha   Rpiha   Rp mln         Rp/ha   Rp mln
Jawa Barat + Jatiluhur         897,125    15,628            0         0      897,125    15,628    17,423    3,200        2,871    10,757    18,499
Jawa Tengah                    491,773      3,776   265,136   2,197          756,909      5,973      7,891    3,760      2,846    11,651       8,819
D.I. Yogyakarta                 65,377        872           0         0       65,377        872    13,338  10,250           670   23,588       1,542
Jawa Timur                     681,965      4,500   286,282    2,732         968,247      7,232      7,469    6,080      5,887    13,549    13,119
Sumatera Utara                263,846       2,450           0         0      263,846      2,450      9,286    1,820         480    11,106      2,930
Sumatera Barat                 217,443      1,400           0         0      217,443      1,400      6,438    1,140         248     7,678      1,648
Sumatera Selatan               338,331      1,697     67,993        679      406,324      2,376      5,848    1,090         443     6,937      2,819
Lampung                        106,868      1,312      44,809       448      151,677      1,760    11,604   2,390           363    13,997      2,123
Sulavesi Selatan               150,046      1,750     72,911       704       222,957      2,454    11,007    4,550       1,014    15,557       3,468
Nusa Tenggara Barat            141,901      1,415           0         0      141,901      1,415      9,972    1,290         183    11,262      1,598
Total                 3,354,675   34,800   737,131   62760   4,091,806   41,560    10,157    3,667    15,005    13,824   56,565
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Funding of O&M in the Rest of the Provinces, 1986/87
APBD+APBN       Estimated DIK    APBD+APBN+DIK
Area      Rp per  Total    Rp per  Total    Rp per  Total
Provinces                 for O&M       ha    Rp bln      ha    Rp bln       ha    Rp bln
Riau                       124,379   10,372   1.29       2,390   0.30    12,762    1.59
Jambi                       52,610   14,406   0.76       1,625   0.09    16,031    0.84
D.I. Aceh                  154,233    6,613   1.02       3,390   0.52    10,003    1.54
D.K.I. Jakarta              20,202   13,365   0.27       1,625   '.03    14,990    0.30
Kalimantan Barat            88,217    9,071   0.80       1,625   0.14    10,696    0.94
Kalimantan Tengah          115,223    6,418   0.74       2,390   0.28      8,080    1.01
Kalimantan Selatan         188,472    3,429   0.65       2,390   0.45      5,819    1.10
Kalimantan Timur            57,015    7,080   0.40       1,625   0.09      8,705    0.50
Sulawesi Utara              51,827   13,506   0.70       1,625   0.08    15,131    0.78
Sulawesi Tengah             45,949   15,692   0.72       1,625   0.07    17,317    0.80
Sulawesi Tenggara           24,859   10,057   0.25       1,625   0.04    11,682    0.29
Bali                        59,922   17,523   1.05       1,615   0.10    19,138    1.15
?Iusa Tenggara Timur        31,430   15,224   0.48       1,625   0.05    16,849    0.53
Maluku                      11,633   15,473   0.18       1,625   0.02    17,098    0.20
Irian Jaya                   6,825    8,791   0.06       1,625   0.01    10,416    0.07
Timor Timur                  2,097   23,844   0.05       1,625   0.00    25,469    0.05
Total              11034,893    9,099   9.42        2,204   2.28    11,303   11.70
Note:  DIK contribution assessed at about 70% of PRIS routine budget in selected
provinces.  DIK in these provinces based on averages established for selected
provinces.



ISDON1ESIA
IRRIGATION SV85ECTOR PROJECT
Increunt-1 Yundinz Reul.rernti for Effticent 04M - rrrig-ton
(area in ha and funding in Rp aillton)
World Bank Slice
Slice           Year            1987188  1988/89  1989/90  199n/91  199l192  1992193   1993/94    1994/95    1995/96   1996197   1997/98    19q8/99   1999/on   2(10(1/01   20nl/02   2002/03    Total
Batk 1           1             200,000  160,000  120.000  8O,O0   40.r00        0                                                                                                              200.000
2                      200.000  160.000  120,000   80,000  40,000         n                                                                                                    200,000
3                              300.00() 240.000  180.000  120.000    60,000          0                                                                                         300,Oo0
Bank 2           4                                       300,000  240,000  180,000    90,000     60,nno          0                                                                               300.000
5                                                300,000  240,000    280,0700    90.0on    60,noo         0                                                                    300,noo
6                                                         300.000   240,000    180,000    90,000    60,000          0                                                          300.000
Bank 3           7                                                                    350.00   280.000   21(,000   140.no0    7n,non           0                                                350.000
8                                                                              350,000   280,O0    210,00   -140.000    70,000            0                                    350,000
9                                                                                        400.00(0   1420,000   240,q00(    160).000  80,000         0                          400,000
aank 4          10                                                                                                   400,000   320.noo   240,00t,   160.000    80.000           0                600.000
it                                                                                                             400.000   32n.000    240,000    160 C000    80 000         0    400,000
12                                                                                                                        400.000    320.000    240D000   160.000         0    400.000
Area of eff. O0t to be funded
by  antk on a declining basis    20n.000  360,000  580.000  740,G00  840.0no  880,000   920,000   960,000  1,040,000  1.130,000  1,177n(nOO  1,190,000    800,000   429O.00    240,n00     0   3,00O,000
Area of eaf. O&4 to be assumed       0  40,000  1;0,000  260,000  460,000  720,000  1,030,000  1.340,000  1.660,000  t,970,00n  2.330,000  2,710.000  3,100.000  3,420,000  3.60.00oo  3.°00.000   3,900,000
by OI on a ohased btais
Bank funding required /a         2,400   4.320   6.960   8,880  10,080   10,560    11,040        11.520    12,480    13.560    14,040    14.280        9.600      5,760     2,880          0
001 funding required /a              0      480   1,440    3.120    5.520   8,640      12,360     16,080    19,920     23,64(    27,960     32.520    37,200    41,04n    43,920    46,600
/a  Increenotal funding is based on on average of Rp 12,000 per ha.
Note: Funding by the Bank would be 1002 the ftrst Year. 802 the second, 602 the third. 402 the fnurth, 202 the fifth year and 02 the sixth Year, except that tn the fourth Bank slice, the funding would be
phased to 02 in the fifth year.
1k



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Incremental Funding Requirements for Efficient O&M - Svamps
(area tn ha and funding In Rp million)
World Bank Slic.
Slice           Year                 1987188  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993(94  1994195  1995196  1996197  1997/98  1998199  1999100 2000101  2001/02  2002/03  Total
Bank I            I                   9,>00    7,200    5,400    3,600    1,800        0                                                                                              9.000
2                           25,000   20,000   15,000   10,000    5,000        0                                                                                    25,000
3                                     56,0M   44,800   33,600   22,400   11.200        0                                                                           56,000
Bank 2           4                                              50.000   40,000   30,000   13,000   10.000        0                                                                  50,000
5                                                      50.000   40.000   30.000   15,000   10.000        0                                                         50,000
6                                                               50.000   40,000   30.000   15,000   10,000        0                                                50.000
Bank 3            7                                                                        55.000   44.000   33,000   22,00o   11,000        0                                       55.000
8                                                                                 60,000   48,000   36,000   24,000   12.000        0                              60,000
9                                                                                          60.000   48,000   36,000   24.000   12.000        0                     40,000
Bank 4           10                                                                                                   60,0G0   48,000   36,000   24,000   12.000        0            60,000
11                                                                                                            60,000   48,00.   36.000   24,000   12,000        0  65,000
12                                                                                                                     65,000   5z.Oo   39,000   26,000         0   65.000
Area of off. '1%& to be funded         9.000   32,200   81,400  113,400  135,400  147.400  151,200  159,000  166,000  176,000  179.000  185,000  124,000   75,000   38,000       0
by Baok on a -.l.ining basai
Area of eff. 06M to be assumed            0    7.son    8,600   26,600   S4,600   92.600  141,800  196,000  249,000  299,000  356,000  415,000  4715.000  525,000  56..000  600,000  600,000
by GOT on a phaaed basas
Bank funding required /a                 108    386.4   976.*  1,360.8  1,624.8  1,768.8  1,814.4    1,908    1,992    2,112    2,148    2,220    1,488      900      456        0
D01 funding required /s                   0    93.6  1i3.2   319.2   655.2  1,111.2  1,725.6   2,352    2,988    3,588    4,272    4,980    5,712    6,300    6,744    7,200
/a Incremental funding is based on an average of Rp 12.000 per ha.
Note: Funding by the BLnk would be 1002 the first year, 80t the second, 401 the third, 402 the fourth, 202 the fifth year and 02 the saxth year, extept that in the fourtb Bank slice, the
funding would be pbased to 02 In the fifth year.



-97-                                         ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Projection of Rural PBB and Proposed Allocation for Irrigation O&M
(Rp billion)
Proposed allocation of PBB
Fiscal         PBB tax    Collection   Taxable   Total PBB                to 06M /a
year         assessed   efficiency    rates        revenue    Ootion 1   Option 2    Option 3
1987/88          75.0         80           20         60.0          0.0       0.0          0.0
1988/89          78.8         81           20         63.8          5.2       8.4          9.3
1989/90         82.7          82           20         67.3          5.5       8.9          9.9
1990/91         86.8          83           20         72.1          5.8       9.4         10.5
1991/92          91.2         84           25         95.7          7.8       12.5         14.0
1992/93         95.'          85           25        101.7          8.2       13.3        14.8
1993/94         100.5         87           25        109.3          8.9       14.3        15.9
1994/95         105.5         89           30        140.9         11.4       18.5        20.5
1995/96         110.8         90           30        149.6         12.1       19.6        21.8
1996/97         116.3         90           30        157.1         12.7       20.6        22.9
1997/98         122.2         90           30        164.9         13.4      21.6         24.0
1998/99        128.3          90           30        173.2         14.0      22.7         25.2
1999/2000       134.7         91           35        214.5         17.4      28.1         31.3
2000/01         141.4         92           35        227.7         18.4       29.8        33.2
2001/02         148.5         93           35        241.7         19.6      31.7         35.2
2002/03         155.9         94           35        256.5         20.8      33.6         37.4
2003/04         163.7         95           35        272.2         22.0      35.7         39.7
2004/05         171.9         96           40        330.1         26.7      43.2         48.1
2005/06         180.5         97           40        350.2         28.4      45.9         51.1
/a  PBB is now divided as follows:  10% to central government
16.2% to the provincial governments
64.8% to local governments
9% to collectors
Option 1:  50% of the provincial share of rural PBB would be allocated to 06M (8.1%).
Option 2:  50% of the central and provincial government's share of rural PBB would be
allocated to O&M (13.1).
Option 3:  50% )f the provincial and 10% of the district government's share of rural
PBB would be allocated to 06M (14.58%).
Note: Projection is based on increase in assessment of 5% per year and collection
efficiencies and taxable rates as shown in the table.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Projected Sources of Incremental financing for Efficient 061
(Rp million)
Projected sources of funds
Funds required for all O&M          World Bank Ic
Total design  Areas to be  Remaining   Phasing   Remaining   To main-    Additional                 Irri-                    APBD +
Fiscal    irr. & swamp  turned over  areas for  of effi-         under      tain pre-   tional for            gation  Swamp             APBN            Service
year       areas /a       to WUAs    eff. O&M   cient O&M  other 06M  sent 0EM lb           O&M       Total  areas   areas   Total  + DIK   PBB /d  fee le    Total
--   - --_-_-- (ha)          
1987/88      5,400,000             0    5,400,000    209,000  5,191,000    43,546            2,508    46,054   2,400    108   2,508  34,246   9,300            0   46,054
1988/89      5,400,000         7,000    5,393,000    434,000  4,959,000    43,489            5,208    48,697   4,320    386   4,706  34,091   9,900            0   48,097
1989/90      5,400,000        14,000    5,379,000    790,000  4,589,000    43,376            9,480    52,856   6,960    977   7,937  34,419  10,500            0   52,256
1990/91      5,400,000       44,000    5,335,000_ 1,140,000  4,i95,000    43,021            13,680    56,701   8,880  1,361  10,241  31,460  14,000   1,000   53,201
1991/92      5,400,000       60,000    5,275,000  1,490,000  3,785,000    42,538            17,880    60,418  10,080  1,625  11,705  30,313  14,800   3,600   59,618
1992/93      5,400,000        60,000    5,215,000  2,245,000  2,970,000    42,054           26,940    68,994  10,560  1,769  12,329  35,855  15,900   6,400   59.384
1993/94      5,400,000       65,000    5,150,000  2,655,000  2,495,000    41,530            31,860    73,390  11,040  1,814  12,854  31,236  20,500   8,800   68,790
1994/95      5,400,000        70,000    5,0o0,000  3,115,000  1,965,00    40,965           37,380    78,345  11,520  1,908  13,428  30,817  21,800  12,300   77,045
1995/96      5,400,000        75,000    5,005,000  3,575,000  1,430,000    40,360           42,900    83,260  12,480  1,992  14,472  29,988  22,900  15,900   82,160
1996/97      5,400,000       80,000    4,925,000  4,035,000    890,000    39,715            48,420    88,135  13,560  2,112  15,672  28,563  24,000  19,900   87,035
1997/98      5,400,000       80,000    4,845,000  4,500,000    345,000    39,070            54,000    93,070  14,040  2,148  16,188  26,882  25,200  24,800   91,870
1998/99      5,400,000       80,000    4,765,000  4,500,000    265,000    38,425            54,000    92,425  14,280  ),2.0  16,500  15,425  31,300  29,200   86,325
1999/2000    5,400,000       85,000    4,680,000  4,500,000    180,000    37,740            54,000    91,740   9,600  1,488  11,088  12,752  33,200  34,700   89,840
2000/01       5,400,000       90,000    4,590,000  4,500,000       90,000    37,014         54,000    91,014   5,760    900   6,660   7,554  35,200  41,600   89,014
2001/02       5,400,000       90,000    4,500,000  4,500,000             0    36,288        54,000    90,288   2,880    456   3,336   4,552  37,400  45,000   88,088
2002/03       5,400,000       90.000    4,500,000  4,500,000             0    36,288        54,000    90,288         0      0        0   5,588  39,700  45,000   87,988
/a  Present design area of 4,800,000 ha in Public Works irrigation and 600,000 ha of reclaimed swamp areas.
7T  Budgeted APBD and APBN for 1987/88 of Rp 43.546 billion.
E Based on World Bank initially assumtng full financing of efficient 06M and then Phasing down.
7d Based on IPEDA-s most conservative estimate of increase in PEB rural collections and Option 3 of cost sharing for O&M.
We  Assumes that after a three-year pilot introduction of water service fees, such fees wtll be assessed in step with the completion of efficient 06M.  Also
assumed that Rp 2,500/ha would be levied in the first year of collection, Rp 5,000/ha in the second year, Rp 7,500/ha in the third vear and Rp 10,000/ha
in the fourth year.
/f Remaining subsidy for O&M would be only that by DIK, subsidies from AP80 and APBN would no longer be required.
1ui



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Realization of Physical Targets - Actual and Projected for Repelita IV
(ha)
Realized
Repelita IV  1984/85            Projected for:                   Shortall of target
Program                   target    & 1985/86   1986/87  1987/88  1988/89   Total           ha          %
Rehabilitation of irrigation          360.0        72.6        24.7     34.4      20.0    151.7    208.3        57.86
project
New irrigation construction           600.0        92.1        43.7     40.1      22.0    197.9    402.1        67.02
Swamps new construction and           460.0        93.9         4.8     16.6       5.0    120.3    339.7        73.85
rehabilitation
Flood control & other conservation  500.0         115.7        34.1     72.2      34.0    256.0    244.0        48.80
works
Source: BINA of DGWRD.



- 100 -                                                ANNEX 6
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Actual and Planned Investment Expenditures for the Remainder of Repelita IV
(Rp billion)
Repelita IV                                                         Total      Shortfall
Program               plan      1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88/a  1988/89  1984/89   Amount   %
Rehabilitation
GOI                         956.6      81,6      77.5      31.1       15.2       33.7       239.1    717.5  75.0
External loan               308.4      95.7      71.7      39.8       68.5       35.7       311.4      -3.0  -1.0
Subtotal              1,265.0    177.3    149.2         70.9       83.7       69.4      550.5    714.5  56.5
New Construction
GOI                      2,261.7       50.4    163.5       69.1       46.2       69.6       398.8  1,862.9  82.4
External loan              869.7       90.8      76.8     121.6      188,2       91.4       568.8    470.9  54.1
Subtotal              3,131.4    141.2    240.3    190.7          234.4      161.0      967.6  2,163.8  69.1
Swampa
GOT                         225.9      23.7      22.3       7.9        6.5         8.0       68.4    157.5  69.7
External loan                45.6      11.1       5.2       8.5       17.2         4.8       46.8      -1.2  -2.6
Subtotal                271.5       34.8     27.5       16.4       23.7       12.8      115.2    156.3  57.6
Rivers
GOI                         992.6      92.0      98.4      46.2       33.6       42.1       312.3    680.3  68.5
Externl loan              673.0       71.6      46.8      48.0      129.6       53.0       349.0    324.0  48.1
Subtotal             1665.6      163.6    145.2       94.2       163.2       95.1      661.3  1,004.3  60.3
All Subsectors
GOI                      4,436.8    247.7    361.7        154.3      101.5      153.4   1,018.6  3,418.2  77.0
External loan            1,851.1    258.1       195.3    209.4       386.3      180.1   1,229.2    791.9  42.8
Total                 6,287.9    505.8    557.0    363.7          487.8      333.5   2,247.8  4,218.1  67.0
/a  Additional budget allocations for investment of Rp 59.5 billion approved March 18, 1987 distributed
to subsectors on same proportionate basis as Bina planned for the initially proposed allocation of
Rp 42 billion.
Source: Bina, DGWRD.



- 101 -                                                     AN!EX 6
Table 3
lNDONESIA
IRRIGATION SU8SECTOR PROJECT
Central Governmant (DIP) Investment Exw nditures
Actual Expenditures 1984/85 and 1985/86. Estimate for 1986/87 and Proposed for 1988/89
1984/85               1985/86                1986/87                1987/88                1988/89
Exter-                Exter-                 Exter-                 Exter-                 Exter-
nal                   nal                    nal                    nal                    nal
GO0    loan  Total   GOt   loan   Total   GOI    loan  Total   GOI   loan   Total   GOI    loan  Total
Irrigatton
Small + medium           51.9   22.2   74.1   66.1   24.9   91.0   21.8   21.9   46.7    5.8   44.4   50.2   19.5   24.6   44.1
Large                   92.1   64.8  156.9   90.9   50.1  141.0   44.1   94.1  138.2   37.3  140.6  177.9   46.6   64.3  110.9
Ground water              6.4    3.8   10.2    6.5    1.8    8.3    3.2    5.6    8.8    3.1    3.2    6.3    3.5    2.5    6.0
Rehabilitation          81.6   95.7  177.3   77.5   71.7  149.2   31.1   39.8   70.9   15.2   68.5   83.7   33.7   35.7   69.4
O04 /a                   13.4    0.0   13.4   14.0    0.0   14.0    8.1    0.0    8.1   11.7    0.0   11.7    8.2    0.0    8.2
Subtotal            245.4  186.5  431.9  255.0  148.5  403.5  108.3  161.4  272.7   73.1  256.7  329.8  111.5  127.1  238.6
Rivers
River improvement       27.2   42.1   69.3   16.1    2.3   18.4   15.4    8.0   23.4    2.4   11.4   13.8   23.9   20.3   44.2
Flood control            64.8   29.5   94.4   82.3   44.5  126.8   30.8   40.0   69.8   31.2  118.2  149.4   18.2   32.7   50.9
Subtotal             92.0   71,6  163.7   98.4   46.8  145.2   46.2   48.0   93.2   33.6  129.6  163.2   42.1   53.0   95.1
Swamps
Tidal                    12.4    4.4   16.8   11.7    1.1   12.8    3.5    4.5    8.0    3.1    9.8   12.9    3.4    4.5    7.9
Inland                  .11.3    6.7   18.0   10.6    4.1   14.7    4.4    4.0    8.4    3.4    7.7   10.8    4.6    0.3    4.9
Subtotal             23.7   11.1   34.8   22.3    5.2   27.5    7.9    8.5   16.4    6.5   17.2   23.7    8.0    4.8   12.8
Planning                    5.1   11.8   16.9    6.3    8.6   14.9    1.7    8.3   10.0    1.1    1.0    2.1    1.6    6.0    7.6
Training                    1.6    1.6    3.2    1.5    0.0    1.5    0.5    1.4    1.9    0.3    0.n    0.3    0.6    0.0    0.6
Research                    4.4    3.2    7.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total               372.2  285.8  658.1  383.5  209.1  592.6  164.6  227.6  394.2  114.6  404.5  519.1  163.8  190.9  354.7
/a  DIP only.
Note: Tertiary developmaent include in Small + Medium and Large.
Source: UWna, D¢WRD, March 1987.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Allocations of Loans and Disbursement to January 1, 1987
IBRD Financed Projects
(US$000)
Credit/                                             Starting  Closing    Loan                   Spent to       Balance of
Loan No.                    Project                    date     date     amount    Allocated  01/01/87   Allocated   Loan
Cr. 995       Irrigation XV                          Mar 80    Jan 87       45,000    43,880      32,374      11,506  - 12,626
1578      Irrigation X                           Jun 78    Dec 86    140,000   141,000       97,004      43,996    42,996
1645      Irrigation XII                         May 79    Mar 86      77,000    77,000      66,507      10,493    10,493
1811      Irrigation XIV                         Apr 80    Jan 87    116,000   117,900       97,545      20,355    18,455
1958      Swamp Reclamation I                    Mar 81    Dec 87  - 22,000    17,500  -  12,287          5,213      9,713  .
2118      Irrigation XVI                         Apr 82    Dec 87      37,000    37,000  - 25,643        11,357    11,357
2119      Irrigation XVII                        Apr 82    Mar 88      70,000    70,000       35,548     34,452    34,452
2375      Provincial Irrigation II               Nov 84    Dec 87      89,000    88,274       52,620     35,654    36,380
2431      Swamp Reclamation Project II           Sep 84    Jun 91      64,000    35,000        5,934     29,066    58,066
2543      Kedung Ombo Dam                        Jun 85    Dec 91    156,000   145,600         6,718    138,882   149,282
2560      West Tarum Canal                       Jun 85    Dec 91      43,400    43,400          184     43,216    43,216
2649      Central and West Java Prov. Irrig.   Mar 86    Dec 92    166,000   166,000               0     166,00   166,000
Total                                                1,025,400   982,554    432,364    550,190   593,036



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Allocations of Loans and Disbursement to January 1, 1987
ADB Financed Projects
(US$'000)
Credit/                                              Starting  Closing    Loan                  Spent to       Balance of
Loan No.                    Project                    date     date      amount    Allocated  01/01/87   Allocated   Loan
Cr. 399       Wawotobi                                Dec 78    End 87      34,300    21,026      14,858       6,168    19,442
434       Sungai Brantas                         Dec 79    End 86       39,000    39,000      35,538      3,462      3,462
475       Teluk Lada                             Nov 80    Mar 88       35,000    24,209      18,886      5,323    16,114
479       Citanduy                               Nov 80    Dec 87      55,200    55,200       33,763     21,437    21,437
480       Jambu Aye Lagkahan                     Nov 80    Feb 87       5,700      3,190       2,079      1,111      3,621
518       Irigasi Kedu Selatan                   Jul 81    Jun 88      87,700    78,250       51,969     26,281    35,731
522       Irigasi Bali (EEC)                     Jan 82    Jun 88      33,600    33,600       12,334     21,266    21,266
581       Waru-Turi (1645-IND)                   Dec 82    Dec 88      77,000    77,000       14,059     62,941    62,941
582       P.I. Baro Raya                         Oct 82    Dec 86       4,500      4,500       1,628      2,872      2,872
627       Batang Ilung                           May 83    Dec 90      52,000    52,000        2,229     49,7i1    49,771
638       Simalungan                             Aug 83    Jul 91      85,000    85,000       19,774     65,226    65,226
639       Lombok Sumbawa                         Aug 83    Jun 87        3,450     3,450       2,151       1,299     1,299
685       Jambu Aye Langkahan                    Jul 84    Jul 91      68,000    68,000        3,045     64,955    64,955
769       P2AT Central Java                      Jan 86    Jun 91       12,200    12,200           0     12,200    12,200
725       T.A. Program Loan                      Dec 84    Jun 90      25,000                                  0    25,000
799       Irrigation Pack* e III                 Dec 86    Mar 93    120,700                                  0   120,700
Total                                                  738.350   556,625    212,313    344.312   526.037



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Allocations of Loans and Disbursement to January 1, 1987
OECF Financed Projects
(US 'OO0)
Credit/                                               Starting  Closing    Loan                   Spent to       Balance of
Loan No.                     Project                    date     date      amount    Allocated  01/01/87   Allocated   Loan
Cr. 194        Wonogiri                                Feb 79    Aug 86      40,033    36,200        8,592      27,608    31,441
219       Way Rarem Abung (639-IND/CIDA)          May 80    May 85       41,850    41,850       35,410       6,440      6,440
236       Sungai Ular                             May 81    May 88       33,252    35,400       21,069      14,331    12,183
240       Upper Solo Madiun                       Dec 82    Sep 86        3,288      3,288       2,642         646        646
247       Langkene                                Dec 85    Apr 87        1,307      1,307       1,013         294        294
260       Komering Ulu                            Dec 83    Sep 88        4,820      4,820       3,175       1,645      1,645
263       Gunung Semeru                           Oct 83    Oct 88       11,471    12,200        1,014      11,186    10,457  -
264       Jakarta Flood Protection                Oct 83    Oct 88       21,548    22,930      - 1,987      20,943    19,561  4
265       Sungal Kru3ng Aceh                      Oct 83    Oct 88       19,032    21,256        1,258      18,998    17,774
273       Jakarta Flood Protection                Jun 84    Jun 89       23,587    23,587            0      23,587    23,587
274       Sungai Krueng Aceh                      Jun 84    Jun 90       36,573    38,400            0      38,400    36,573
278       Riam Kanan                              Jun 84    Jun 90       35,278    33,096           53      33,043    35,225
279       Sungai Jeneberang                       Jun 84    Jun 89        3,587      3,512         819       2,693      2,768
281       Bila                                    Jun 84    Jun 89        2,247      2,247           0       2,247      2,247
283       Sungai Jeneberang                       Feb 85    Feb 91       22,890    22,890            0      22,890    22,890
284       Irigasi Madiun (1811-IND)               Feb 85    Feb 90       27,234    27,234            0      27,234    27,234
285       Sungai Brantas (434-IND)                Feb 85    Feb 91       25,532    25,532            0      25,532    25,532
292       Padang Flood Control                    Feb 85    Feb 91        2,460      2,460           0       2,460      2,460
300       Upper Solo Improvement                  Dec 85    End 90       20,635    20,695            0      20,695    20,635
302       Merapi                                  Dec 85    End 90       20,313    20,313            0      20,313    20,313
308       Surabaya River                          Dec 85    End 90       20,900      2,499           0       2,499    20,900
Total                                                   417,837   400,716       77,032    323,684   340,805



-105 -                                 ANNEX 6
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Estimated GOI Funding of Foreign Financed Projects
(US$1000)
% of
Credit/        No. of               Loan       project       GOI
Loan No.      projects             amount       cost       funding        Total
Ongoing World Bank Financed Projects
995             3                 45,000       69.0       20,217         65,217
1578            1                140,000       66.8       69,581        209,581
1645            1                 77,000       65.4       40,737        117,737
1811            9                116,000       72.0       45,111        161,111
1958            1                 22,000       50.0       22,000         44,000
2118            5                 37,000       52.0       34,154         71,154
2119            3                 70,000       70.0       30,000        100,000
2375           14                 89,000       61.0       56,902        145,902
2431            3                 64,000       60.6       41,611        105,611
2543            2                156,000       66.0       80,364        236,364
2560            1                 43,400       59.6       29,419         72,819
2649            2                166,000       66.21      84,755        250,755
Subtotal    45               1,025,400                 554,850      1,580,250
Ongoing ADB Financed Projects
389             1                 34,300       58.0       24,838         59,138
434             1                 39,000       58.0       28,241         67,241
475             1                 35,000,      58.0       25,345         60,345
479             2                 55,200       58.0       39,972         95,172
480             1                  5,700       58.0        4,128          9,828
518             2                 87,700       58.0       63,507        151,207
522             1                 33,600       58.0       24,331         57,931
581             2                 77,000       58.0       55,759        132,759
582             1                  4,500       58.0        3,259          7,759
627             3                 52,000       58.0       37,655         89,655
639             2                  3,450       58.0        2,498          5,948
685             1                 85,000       58.0       61,552        146,552
769/729         1                 12,200       80.0        3,050         15,250
725             2                 25,000       80.0        6,250         31,250
799             ?                120,700       80.0       30,175        150,875
Subtotal                       670,350                 410,559      1,080,909



- 106 -
ANNEX 6
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
Ongoing OECF-Financed Projects
% of
Credit/        No. of               Loan       project       GOI
Loan No.     projects              amount       Cvit       funding        Total
194             1                 40,033       70.0      17,157         57,190
219             1                 41,850       82.2        9,062         50,912
236             1                 33,252       70.0       14,251        47,503
240             1                  3,288       70.0        1,409          4,697
247             1                  1,307       70.0          560          1,867
260             1                  4,820       70.0        2,066          6,886
263             1                 11,471       70.0       4,916          16,387
264             1                 21,548       70.0        9,235         30,783
265             1                 19,032       70.0       8,157          27,189
273             1                 23,587       70.0       10,109        33,696
274             1                 36,573       70.0       15,674         52,247
278             1                 35,278       70.0       15,119         50,397
279             1                  3,587       70.0        1,537          5,124
281             1                  2,247       70.0          963          3,210
283             1                 22,890       70.0.      9,810         32,700
284             1                 27,234       70.0      11,672         38,906
285             1                 25,532       70.0      10,942         36,474
292             1                  2,460       70.0        1,054          3,514
300             1                 20,635       70.0       8,844         29,479
301             1                 45,821       70.0      19,638         65,459
302             1                 20,313       70.0       8,706         29,019
308             1                 20,900       70.0       8,957         29,857
Subtotal    22                 463,658                189,837        653,495
Total                        2,159,408              1,155,247      3,314,655



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Yields - Present Situation and Future with Project
(T/ha)
Surface irrigation /a                 Swamps /a                       Groundwater
Present   Future /b             Present   Future /b             Present   Future /b
situa-    with      Incre-      situa-    with       Incre-     situa-    with       Incre-
Crop                                   tion    project   mental        tion    project   mental        tion    project   mental
Paddy
HYV (Java)                          4.5        5.0        0.5         -          -         -         3.0        5.0        2.0
HYV (outside Java)                  4.0        4.5        0.5        2.5        2.5                   -          -          -
Rainfed (outside Java)              2.5        4.5        2.0         -               -          -          -       -       -
Maize                                  1.4       3.0        1.6        1.4        2.0        0.6        1.2       3.3        1.1    -
Soybeans                              0.8        1.2        0.4        0.8        1.0        0.2       0.8        1.2        0.4
Groundnuts                             0.8        1.0       0.2        0.8        1.0        0.2       0.8        1.5        0.7
_otton                                  -         -          -          -          -          -        0.5        1.5        1.0
/a Includes special maintenance, efficient O&M and ongoing projects.
/b With-project yields are based on efficient levels of operation and maintenance of systems.
1F'



- 108 -                                             ANE  7
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Crop Areas - Present Situation and Future with Prolct
(ha)
Surface irrigation  Ongoing projects/a        Swamps /b          Groundwater /c
Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future    Present   Future
situa-    with      situa-    with        situa-    with       situa-    with
Crop                            tion    project      tion    project      tion    project      tion    project
Paddy                         875,000   875,000    70,000   175,000   106,000   106,000        1,044      1,740
Maize                          70,000    70,000      3,500    14,000    10,600    10,600       1,804      3,212
Soybeans                      210,000   210,000    10,500    42,000    31,800    31,800          696      3,273
Groundnuts                     70,000    70,000      3,500    14,000    10,600    10,600         348      2,165
Cotton                              -          -         -          -         -          -       552        442
Total Cropped Area   1,225.000 1,225000    87,500   245.000   159.000   159.000         4,444    10.832
Total Command Area      700.000   700.000    70.000   140,000   106,000   106.000        3j795      3.795
Crop intensity (X)                175        175       125        175       150        150       117        285
/a  For ongoing projects, crop intensity will increase from 125X to 1752 due to increase In irrigated
area.  Therefore, yields will increase due to:  (l) incremental increase in yields on presently cropped
area during the wet season; and (il) iacrease in irrigable area particularly during the dry season.
Area under 16 selected ongoi'g projects is assumed to be doubled when another 20 projects will be
selected in the second yvoar. Although irrigation Infrastructure is at different stages of construction,
a reliable supply of irrgation water ts not available. Rence, present situation assumes all areas are
under rainfed condition.
/b  Present and future cropped areas are the same under surface Irrigation and swamps as no additional irri-
gable areas will result from special maintenance or efficient 0&M.  It is also assumed that present and
future crop intensities under surface irrigation and swamps are 175Z and that yields will increase due
to availability of trained extension staff, assurance of water availability, and use of recommended
inputs and cultural practices. It is further assumed that one crop of paddy will be grown in the wet
season. In the dry season, in addition to planting a second rice crop on 251 of the area, the following
crops will be planted in the following percentages: (i) maize 102; (ii) soybeans 302; and (iii) ground-
nuts 102. With increased demand for legumes and GOI emphasis on crop diversification, no futher
increase in paddy area during dry season is assumed. However, some farmers in some areas tend to plant
paddy whenever water supply is assured. In swamps, only one peddy crop is planted In the wet season.
tc Cotton area using groundwater it Lombe will decrease gradually as farmers will shift to more renumera-
tive crops with groundwater development. Less perishable fruits and vegetables (citrus, onions, garlic
and potatoes) will be cropped depending on market conditions and farmers' experience. The extension
service should carry out trials and demonstrations of horticultural crops in contact farmers' fields and
organize sLpply of fruit seedlings and vegetable seeds. Cotton will remain as a rainfed crop tn the wet
season.



- 109 -                            ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production - At Full Development
(tons)
Surface     Ongoing                Ground-
Crop                     irrigation   projects    Swamps      water      Total
Paddy                       437,500    210,000           -     5,568    653,068
Maize                       112,000     16,800       6,360     8,435    143,595
Soybeans                     84,000     12,600       6,360     3,371    106,331
Groundnuts                   14,000      2,100       2,120     2,969     21,189
Cotton                            -          -           -       387         387



- 110 -                                                ANX   I
Table 1I
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Analysis of Repayment Capacity of Water Users
(Java farm models using 1986/87 actual farmgate prices)
Return/ha   Return per   Return per   Return per
Return/ha         Crop       farm          farm          farm          farm
(Rp '000)      intensity  (Rp '000)   (Rp '000)    (Rp '000)    (Rp '000)
Fart size (ha)                                                                       1.00         0.50         0.33
Wet Season
Rice                                     401.90         1.00       401.90        401.90      200.95        132.63
Dry Season
Rice                                     384.42         I.n0       384.42        384.42       192.21       126.86
Maize                                    411.75         0.30       123.53        123.53       61.76         40.76
Sovabeans                                560.60         0.1S        84.09         84.09       42.05         27.75
Groundnuts                               520.00         0.05        26.00         26.00        13.00         8.58
Total                               2,278.67         2.50    1,019.Q4      1,019.94       509.97        336.58
Miscellaneous costs                                                               35.00        17.50        11.67
Additional family labor allowance                                                  0.00       33.50         44.30
Farm income                                                                        984.94      525.97        369.21
Off-farm income /                                                                    0.00      240.00        360.00
Total Family I eome                                                          984.94       765.97        729.21
Estimated Outgoings
Living costs                                                                     600.00      600.00        600.00
Ipeda/PBB                                                                         15.00        7.50          5.00
National rent                                                                    100.00       50.00         33.33
House tax                                                                         20.00       20.00         20.00
Religious contributions                                                           10.00        5.00          3.33
Water Users Association (50 kg)                                                    6.00        3.00          2.00
Total Outgoing.                                                              751.00       685.50        663.67
Possible savings/repayment capacity                                                233.93       80.47         65.55
/a  Assumes that a farm family with I ha will not work nff farm; a farm family with 0.5 ha will have on average
I member working full time off farm; and farm family with 0.33 ha will have 1.5 members working off farm at
wages of Rp 20,000 per month.



- 111 -                                                ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Analysis of Repavr-sit'Capacity of Water Users
(Outside Java farm model  using actual 1986/87 farmgate prices)
Return/ha   Return per   Return per   Return per
Return/ha        Crop        farm          farm         farm          farm
(Rp  000)      intensity  (Rp '000)   (Rp  000)    (Rp  000)    (Rp  000)
Farm size (ha)                                                                      1.50         1.00         0.50
Wet Season
Rice                                       566.2n         1.00      566.20        849.30       566.20       283.10
Dry Season
Rice                                    481.20         0.50       240.60        360.90      240.60        120.30
Maize                                    284.30        0.30        85.29        127.94       85.29         42.65
Soyabeans                                302.40        0.15        45.36         68.04       45.36         22.68
Groundnuts                               337.80        0.05        16.89         25.34       16.89          8.45
Total                              1,971.90         2.00       954.34     1,431.51       954.34        477.17
Miscellaneous costs                                                              60.00       4n.00         20.00
Additional family labor allowance                                                0.00         0.00         30.00
Farm income                                                                     1,371.51      914.34        487.17
Off-farm income /a                                                                  0.00      120.00        24n.00
Total Income                                                              1,371.51    1,034.34         727.17
Possible Outgoings
Living costs                                                                   600.00       600.00        600.00
Ipeda/PBB                                                                       22.50        15.00          7.50
National rent                                                                  150.00       100.00         50.00
House tax                                                                       20.00        20.00         20.00
Religious contributions                                                          10.00        5.no          3.33
Water Users Association (50 kg)                                                  12.75        8.50          4.25
Total Outgoings                                                             815.25       748.50       685.08
Possible savings/repayment capacity                                              556.26       285.84         42.09
/a  Assumes that a farm family with 1.5 ha will not work off farm; a farm family with I ha will have a member
working off farm half time: and a farm family with 0.5 ha will have a member working off farm full time at
wages of Rp 20,000 per month.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Analysis of Repayment Capacity of Water Users
(Java tarm models using government support-level. prices)
Return/ha   Return per   Return per   Return per
Return/ha         Crop        farm          farm          farm          farm
(Rp -000)       intensity  (RP '000)   (Rp '000)    (RP '000)    (Rp -000)
Farm size (ha)                                                                        1.00         0.50          0.33
Wet Season
RIce                                      729.90         1.00       729.90        729.90       364.95        240.87
Drv Season
KLce                                      642.50         1.00       642.50        642.50       321.25        212.03
Maize                                     413.30         0.30       123.99        123.99        62.00         40.92
Soyabeans                                 560.11         0.15        84.02         84.02        42.01         27.73
Groundnuts                                305.50         0.05        15.28         15.28         7.64          5.04
Total                               2,651.31          2.50    1,595.68       1,595.68       797.84        526.57
1iscellaneouug costs                                                               35.00        17.50         11.67
Additional family labor allowance                                                   0.00        33.50         44.30
Farm income                                                                       1,560.68       813.84        559.21
Off-farm income                                                                                  240.00        240.00
Total Income                                                                 1,560.68    1,053.84         799.21
Possible Outgo_ng&s
LI lng costs                                                                      600.00       600.00        600.00
Ipeda                                                                              15.00         7.50          5.00
National rent                                                                     100.00        50.00         33.33
House tax                                                                          20.00        20.00         20.00
Religious contributions                                                            10.00         5.00          3.33
Water Users Association (50 kg)                                                     6.00         3.00          2.00
Total Outgoings                                                                751.00       685.50        663.67
Savings                                                                             809.68       368.34        135.54



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Analyi  of Repament Capacity of Water Users
(Outside Java tarm models using government support level prices)
Return/ha   Return per   Return per   Return per
Return/ha        Crop        farm          farm          farm          farm
(Rp '000)      intensity  (Rp '000)   (Rp -000)    (Rp '000)    (Rp '0Q0)
Farm size (ha)                                                                      1.50         1.00          0.50
Wet Season
U~lErce                                  664.80         1.00      664.80        997.20       664.80        332.40
DU  Season
xice                                     664.80         0.50      332.40        498.60       332.40        li-,.20
Maize                                    312.43         0.30       93.73        140.59        93.73         46.86
Soyabeans                                144.86         0.15       21.73         32.59        21.73         10.86
Groundnuts                               169.25         0.05        8.46         12.69         8.46          4.23
Total                               1,956.13         2.00    1,121.12      1,681.68    1,121.12         560.56
Miscellaneous costs                                                              60.00        40.00         20.00
Additional family labor allowance                                                 0.00         0.00         30.00
Farm iie:ome                                                                    1,621.68    1,081.12         570.56
Off-farm income                                                                                  3.00        240.00
Total Family Income                                                          621.68    1,081.12        810.56
Possible Outgoings
Lisvng  costs                                                                   750.00       750.00        750.00
Ipeda                                                                            22.50        15.00          7.50
Natior.al rent                                                                  150.00       100.00         50.00
House tax                                                                        20.00        20.00         20.00
Religious contributions                                                          10.00         5.00          3.33
Water Users Association (50 kg)                                                  12.75         8.50          4.25
Total Outgoings                                                              965.25       898.50       835.08
Savings                                                                           656.43       182.67        -24.52



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Derivation of Economic Prices
(Constant 1987 prices)
Import Parity                        Export Parity
Items                            Unit      1987  1990  1995  2000                1987  1990  1995  2000
Rice
Thai 5% brokens, FOB Bangkok              $/tonne     210   249   255   260                 210   249   255  260
Quality adjustment                          10%       189   224   230   234        15%      179   212   217  221
Rp/kg     295   350   358  365
Freight + insurance                              +    30    30    30    30                    0      0     0  0
CIF/FOB price                                         219   254   260   264                   0      0     0 0
Rp/kg      361   419   428   436                   0      0     0  0
Port handling, storage, losses              5%   +    18    21    21    22         5%   -   15    18    18  18
Transport port to wholesaler                     +      5      5     5      5            -    5      5     5  5
Transport mill to wholesaler                     -      3      3     3      3            -    3      3     3  3
Traders margins                                  -    10    10    10    10               -   10    10    10  10
Ex-mill price                                         371   432   442   450                 262   314   322  329
Conversion to paddy                         65%       241   281   287   293        65%      170   204   209  214
Milling cost                                      -    10    10    10    10              -   10    10    10  10
Transport farm to mill                            -    12    12    12    12              -   12    12    12  12
Economic farm gate price                   Rp/kg      219   259   265   271                 148   182   187  192
Average import/export                      Rp/kg      184   220   226   232
Maize
'OB US Gulf Port $/tonne                  $/tonne      72   112   114   118    $/tonne       72   112   114  118
Quality adjustment                                                                 15%       11    17    17  18         0 & 
Freight + insurance                                    20    20    20    20
Ol



Import Parity                        Export Parity
Items                            Unit      1987  1990  1995  2000               1987  1990  1995  2000
Maize (cont-d)
CIF Indonesia                            $/tonne       92   132   134   138   $/tonne       61    95    97  100
Rp/kg      152   218   221   228      Rp/kg      101   157   160  165
Port handling, storage, losses                   +     8    11    11    11              -    5      5     5  5
Transport to wholesaler                          +      5     5      5     5            -    5      5     5  5
Traders margin                                   -    10    10    10    10              -   10    10    10  10
Transport farm to wholesaler                     -    12    12    12    12              -   12    12    12  12
Economic farm gate price                  Rp/kg       143   212   215   222                 69   125   128  133
Average import/export                     Rp/kg       106   168   172   178
Soya Beans
CIF Rotterdam                            $/tonne     200   233   246   240                                                 >
Freight + insurance                              +    35    35    35    35                                                 £
CIF Indonesia                            $/tonne     235   268   281   275
Rp/kg      388   442   464   454
Port handling, storage, losses                   +    19    22    23    23
Transport to wholesaler                          +      5     5      S     5
Traders margin                                   -    10    10    10    10
Transport farm to wholesaler                     -    12    12    12    12
Economic farm gate price                  Rp/kg      390   447   470   460
Groundnuts
Groundnuts oil price                     $/tonne      560   652   720   636
Ratio Indonesian
Import/groundnuts oil price                0.72
(1982-84)
CIF Indonesia shelled groundnuts         $/tonne     403   469   518   458
Rp/kg      665   774   855   756
0



Import Parity                        Export Parity
Items                            Unit     1987  1990  1995  2000                1987  1990  1995  2000
Groundauts (cont'd)
Port handling, storage, losses             5%   +    33    39    43    38
Transport to wholesaler                          +     5     5      5     5
Traders margins                                  -    10    10    10    10
Transport farm to wholesaler                     -    12    12    12    12
Economic farm gate price                  Rp/kg      681   796   881   777
Urea (46% N)
FOB Europe                               $/tonne                               $Itonne    115   214   200   215
Freight & insurance                                                                    +   15    15    15    15
Ex faztory Palembang, Indonesia          $/tonne                               $/tonne    130   229   215   230
Rp/kg                                 Rp/kg    215   378   355   380
Transtport to wholesaler                                                               +   20    20    20    20
Storage and wholesalers' margin                                                        +   15    15    15    15
Transport to farm                                                                      +   10    10    10    10
Economic farm gate price                  Rp/kg                                           260   423   400   425
Triple Super Phosphate
(TSP, 46% P205)
FOB Florida                              $/tonne     118   149   175   185
Freight + insurance                                   55    55    55    55
CIF Indonesia                            $/tonne     173   204   230   240
Rp/kg      285   337   380   396
Transport to wholesaler                          +    20    20    20    20
Storage and wholesalers' margin                 +    15    15    15    15
Transport to farm                                +    10    10    10    10
Economic farm gate price                  Rp/kg      330   382   425   441
0h



- 117-                                   ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
(Rp/kg)
Financial
prices               Economic prices
1987              1987           1995/a
Outputs
Paddy                                      150                184             226
Maize (shelled)                            130                106             172
Soybeans                                   525               390              470
Groundnuts (shelled)                       750               681              881
Cotton                                     400               598              973
Inputs
Seeds:  Paddy                              350               230              283
Maize /b                          250                133             215
Soybeans                          750               488              588
Groundnuts                      1,000                851           1,101
Cotton                            125                125             125
Urea                                       125               260              400
TSP                                        125               330              425
Pesticides (liter)                       2,500            10,000          10,000
Labor (man-days):  Java                  1,500               965              965
Off-Java            2,800              2,000           2,000
/a In constant 1987 prices.
b Seeds of improved HYV, e.g., Arjuna, may cost up to Rp 750/kg and hybrids
up to Rp 19500/kg.



- 118 -
ANNE 10
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Background Reports
1.        Project PreparaLion Reports, DGWRD assisted by Sir M. MacDonald and
Partners and P.T. Indah Karya, August 1986 and January 1987.
2.        Preparatory Designs:  Review Reports for the ongoing projects, DGWRD
assisted by Sir M. MacDonald and Partners and P.T. Indah Karya, February 1987.
3.        Preparatory Designs:  Draft Provincial Summaries, DGWRD assisted by
Sir M. MacDonald and Partners and P.T. Indah Karya, March 1987.
4.        Lombok Island:  Groundwater Investigation, DGWRD assistec, by ELC -
Electroconsult, October 1986.
5.        Institutional Strengthening Study in Water Management at Tertiary
System and in Irrigation O&M at Main System, DGWRD assisted by DHV and PT
Deserco, June 1986.
Staff Working Papers
1.        Cost Tables
2.        Tables Related to Financial and Economic Analysis
3.        Charts of various organizations



Chart 1
I             I          I         2 XtZj~I 
F0!1
Lii~~~~~~~~L-
I i ~   - - - - -- - -                  - - -
15~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Organizational Arrangements for the Implementation of Training Activities
Mln| of                                                                                                                                                     %"tslMr | l OfMnl, Of
PUblc Wolk                                                                                                                                                    Rnanqce
sec,tam!                                             c
rl                I'          '
OMIO G"etr      of                                 Coordiatorl ureaul of                                                           DCFC 0i t|                      tor Genera
D(;rD_   (DGSWD)  m|E_          
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tf                                                                                                                 IDO <'1ffice---
Of  Dmeorate of                                                              Nda~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g  Penonnel                                        -~~~~~~~~~~ar.ngOfAc,o  Ta,mgO
(DO-10xac;&l¢>c ! Mers,( ,             I-orms                                                POnoM          sro,DWMz                                                         M .  &
CT ACTAMTES                                                            Ptonnng &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Teh~ctCotO    ~ee~t~   ee~~
---___; o-_"-mito3 t  _-3--- _------                                            -                                                                                         - 3
I F,ncl I                   Polrnco      I         I     -m                      Pr I Icral      I           I 01 II ll                                                                  P IOC                     Fei *omce
I     ,      a   t ~~~~NON .REEr4  TPZIN.G  I                                                      
O&M1o 1tc bE            clanstmtl n                                      [                                                                                9go l TIon               TranWUt Acto                        atM8 
O&  .c STK                  De .odnn                        .   o   i                 ,w for $Wrv                                                              CatsCOP  lW                                          eoa  m
|  Sfflems CSkM  |  }  M  Tlanr10 | | ms CtkM § | | I Ik P I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(TC                                                        L"WCffdlls&  wi Saf
I   ~            ~            ~           ~             ~            ~~ ~~~ I I  I                            S           = vff*v
Wa1lBn - 31144t 13



- 121 -
Chart 3
INDONESEIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Approoch to Strengthening lnigatlon Management
at the Terinary and Quartemary Levels
lechnical                      C n =l1  i =   1
Government                  Grouts(MOA MPI)                Counterparts(MQA MpU)
Provincial                   _i
Provin cial l                       InterDr                               Provicial
Irrigaton        I_-_               coordination        ¢ _Pof                              .*
Comnmitees                             iGroup                         Mnaigers(PU MOA)
District
Irrlation            _G,.-rrr.nt
Committees                                            (Bupot,)
|UJA Action Groups                                                     Quick Inventory
(AG) 3-9 pe,                                                       of WAAs bv Seksi _
OsStin (MOA, MPUJ& MiLA)                                               & Su:ks, Level Staff
Training of AG                                                        Ben      _-mar
Members 2-Month                                                         Intomotion
by MCA MPU NGO s                               Son VAS
& Consultants
Training of Sub-District                                                      n Study
Staff on Community                                                     Contiuln Studty
Orgonimthon MNU. MIA                                                    Of & Samluaion
MOA Staff Including PPts
i              l                  Sr  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Outpuht$
| Organi|n                    Lr Level. MOA MRU hHA
eorganIzatron     I     Officials Inluding                     _T   r
I          ~~~~~~Irrgraotion Comrmitree     
Cimbursi(GroupAj )¶|   Cord,nungMnitorigA
Sterofohentn
V)A MembomoTraining Modu l3s
Deeope      t      G!ip A.                                           oue
WIJA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~"  Banker                       - 3114412rdle



- 122 -
Chart 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
Organizational Set up for ISF Pilot Scheme
Inter-agency Coordination Group
-BAPPENAS (Chalrman)
-Dte. of IPEDA (Finance)
-DG of Public Affairs (Home Affairs)
-DGWRID (Public Works)
-DGFCA (Agriculture)
|   Provincial Inter-agency Coordination GroupCoslat
__________ _  District Irrigation Committee
f  I             Chaired by Bupati
I eSystem-wide or
!s Distnct Level                                 Pilot Implementation Unit                          Consultants
8.0                                                Sub-District 
U                                   .                Office
E            Agriculture                             Village                                      lriation
Cu            Extension                              Chiefs                                        SekI
I        Water Users Associations
Irrigation Beneficiary Farmers J
World Bank-40485



96*                                                     104                                                    1124
THAILAND
I.
A            a o  AJto Ubai
* U
Pundrnh
D.I. ACEH                         MALAYSIA
Mndon,UAA*
M~~~~~~On        k~~~~~~IIUMALA
SUMATERA  ; 4
UTARA
L- SINGAPORE                                               .
Pkcmbaru
e.4tMATE' A~ ,,AJ ~ .KALIMANTAN
4                         j sSU~~~~~~.~MATERA 
,/   .8ARATf         RIAU                                        Po
0                                                 ~     ~~~~~BARAT     .
oPod"ng   ).../                                                               .        KALIA
.JAM31      obm                                                                 TE1
tf' SUMATERA\ 
I    KMuW;               C 4.,  ._- _ .
BENr           SELTAN-
j B.Ebkulu o      Ai    E
/  L4MPUUNG
I N   D O   N   E S I A                                       a M 0   o a
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT   '                                                -  JAKARA
JAWA BARAT                                G
OSandimg  (         oSIm.I;
SPECIAL MAINTENANCE AND                                                          ,'                 J  *
EFFICIENT O&M IRRIGATION                                                           JAWA TENGAH   o'          0 & Sun
SPECIAL MAINTENANCE AND                                                                                 W °  M
EFFICIENT OSM SWAMPS                                                                   Yogwoae '      JAWA TMU,R
O   ON-GOING PROJECTS
*   GROUNDWATER SUB-PROJECTS
RIVER MOUTH
- -- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-. - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
9o                                                       1°40                                                   112



IBRD 20240
120-                                                    128-
PHILIPPINES
BRUNEI
11 (r_                                                                                       /
kLAYSIA                                                                                        /
KALIMANTAN TIMUR                    !              SLnaSo
[ '  /                                     / SULAWESI UTARA
(         S~~amorido
ANTAN                                    Pelu   P-
GAH                                       aI  PI
MnGkAH ya                                 '  SULAWESI
o  ?,..4GAH                    i
f v-~%,~~%                    SULAWESI 'MWU%
,ofALIMANTAN                   SELATAN
fo.; SELATAN
-SULAWESI                                          °Ambo
TENGGARA o                                        0h
POmuMIJV?  3 Snem.\
Ulung Pandang 
I NUSA TENGGARA BARAT
B ALI  .                           
0Mat  /  NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR       v!   i                               > 4 b It
TIMOR TIMUR                      r         IN
K°p0                                    C_WM Trh 
100   200   300   400   SW0                                                                              woIef nWU* ovtt
KILOMETERS                                                                                          pwlwL
120_                                                   1280
JUNE 1987



