Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  11416
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2880-IND)
DECEMBER 8, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (9/87): US$1 - Rupiah 1,650
1987/88:  US$1 - Rupiah 1,644
1988/89:  US$1 - Rupiah 1,686
1989/90:  US$1 - Rupiah 1,770
1990/91:  US$1 - Rupiah 1,843
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APBD              Provincial Budget
BAPPENAS          National Development Planning Agency
BDP               Bidang Diklat Pengairan (Education and Training Organization in DGWRD)
DCFCA             Directorate-General of Food-Crop Agriculture
DGPUOD            Directorate-General of Public Administration and
Regional Autonomy (within MHA)
DGWRD             Directorate-General of Water Resources Development
DI                Dairah Irrigasi (Irrigation Scheme)
DPP               Directorate of Planning and Programming in DGWRD
EOM               Efficient Operation and Maintenance
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
GCC               General Coordination Consultants
OI               Government of Indonesia
GON               Government of the Netherlands
HYV               High Yielding Varieties
INPRES            Revenue Sharing Grant from GOI to Regional/Local Governments
IPEDA             Land Tax (now replaced by PBB)
ISF               Irrigation Service Fee
ISSP              Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2880-IND)
ISSP II           Irrigation Subsector Project II (Loan 3392-IND)
KCI               Potassium Chloride
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA               Ministry of Agriculture
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MHA               Ministry of Home Affairs
MPW               Ministry of Public Works
muV               Manufactures Unit Value
NBB               Needs-Based Budget
NTT               East Nusa Tenggara
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
P3A               Water user Association (in Bahasa Indonesia)
PBB               Property and Building Tax
PBME              Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
PCR               Project Completion Report
PG                Provincial Governor
PPW               Provincial Public Works
PRIS              Provincial Irrigation Services
Repelita V        National Five-Year Development Plan, 1989-1994
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SM                Special Maintenance
TSP               Triple Superphosphate
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
WNT               West Nusa Tenggara
WUA               Water Users' Association
WUTP              Water Users Training Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Otflce of Director-General
Operations Eveluston
December 8, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR'o AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Irrigation Subsector Project (Ln. 2880-JND'
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Indonesia - Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2880-IND)" prepared by the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program on behalf of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II contributed
by the Borrower. The report is informative and covers all relevant aspects.
The project aimed to strengthen and improve standards of operation and maintenance
over about 1.3 million ha of irrigated and swamp land. It achieved, or exceeded, most of its physical
targets. It benefitted from strong govemment commitment, and was implemented in accordance with
improved policies for irrigation operation and maintenance. The reestimated rate of return compares
favorably with the appraisal estimate. The project is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as
likely.
The project was succeeded by a similar project covering the remaining irrigated areas
of Indonesia but with greater emphasis on monitoring and evaluation of project costs, physical
achievements and benefits. A comparative audit of both projects is proposed on completion of the
second project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .±......  .           ..  ..  ..  .   ..  ..  ..  .    ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .     . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                 ..  ..  ..  ..  .       .    iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.  Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2. Background .1........................... . .
3.  Project Objectives and Description .1............... . .
4.  Project Design and Organization ................... .  3
5.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
6.  Project Re,ults . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
7.  Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
8. Bank Performance .......................... . 8
9.  Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
10. Project Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
11. Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
12. Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . 10
PART III:  STATISTICAL SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits   .....  ..                .......  .       .  ..  .    . 18
2.  Project Timetable .......................... . 19
3.  Loan Disbursements ......................... . 19
4.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
5.  Project Cost and Financing  ......  .               .    ........  .       ..  .  .   . 21
A.  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
B.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
A.  Direct Benefits    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
B.  Economic Impact - ERR ........  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...  .                        . 23
C.  Financial Impact   .........  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..                         .    24
D.  Studies .......................                                    ....   .    24
7. Status of Covenants    ..25
8.  Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
A.  Staff Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
B. Missions .26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX 1  Statement of Policies for Irrigation O&M  . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
ANNEX 2  Detailed Action Plan and Status on Completion (7/31/92) . . . . . 33
ANNEX 3  Economic Analysis .....  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 42
Tables
1. Inflation Factors, Exchange Rates and
Conversion Factors  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 47
2. Financial an Economic Values ............... . 48
3. Derivation of Economic Prices ............... . 49
4.  Cropped Yield Estimates and Cropping Patterns . . . . . . . . 50
5.  Financial Crop Budgets Per Hectare  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
6.  Cropped Areas and Incremental Crop Production . . . . . . . . 52
7.  Economic Analyses of Special Maintenance and EOM  . . . . . . 53
8.  Economic Analyses of Swamps and Ongoing Projects  . . . . . . 54
9.  Economic Analyses of Groundwater Projects . . . . . . . . . . 55
10.  Overall Project Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
11.  ERR Sensitivity Analysis of SM/EOM  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Map: IBRD No. 20240R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Irrigation
Subsector Project, for which a World Bank loan of US$234 million equivalent to
the Government of the Republic of Indonesia (GOI) was approved in December 1987.
In addition, the equivalent of about US$15.4 million was provided by
cofinanciers.  The original Loan Closing date of March 31, 1991 was extended
until July 31, 1991.  Approximately 96% of the Loan was disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III of this PCR were
prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, and reviewed
by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department III of the East Asia
and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. The PCR was
prepared in accordance with the guidelines for preparing PCRs, issued in June
1989.  The report is based on data provided by GOI, a review of World Bank
records and the mission's visit to Indonesia in January and February 1992.






- iii -
PROJECT COIIPLETION REPORT
INDOFESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
EVALUATION SUnIARY
Obiectives
The objective of the Project was to support the six basic goals
outlined in GOI's Statement of Policies for Irrigation Operation and
Maintenance (O&M), which are to: (a) ensure adequate and timely funding for
efficient O&M (EOM), with expenditures in line with actual needs of each
irrigation system; (b) simplify O&M programming, monitoring and budget
planning; (c) introduce direct cost recovery for O&M expenditures from
irrigation beneficiaries; (d) increase local revenue generation through land
reclassification, valuation and training of assessors; (e) support
institutional development to enable a greater transfer of responsibility for
O&M of main and secondary systems to provincial authorities and of smaller
systems to Water Users' Associations (WUAs); and (f) rationalize expenditure
programs in the irrigation subsector. The Project was also to include: (a)
special maintenance (SM), i.e. deferred maintenance essentially needed on many
schemes prior to introduction of EOM, on about 500,000 ha of irrigated land
and reclaimed swamp; (b) introduction of EOM on 787,000 ha; (c) completion of
about 40 high-priority ongoing projects (about 100,000 ha), selected on the
basis of agreed technical and economic criteria; (d) pilot groundwater
irrigation development (about 6,000 ha) through construction of tubewells in
primarily rainfed areas; and (e) institutional strengthening, technical
assistance and studies.
Implementation Experience
The Project, constituting a first subsector approach to an O&M
program in Indonesia, was implemented in accordance with the proposals
outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). There were substantial
increases in the area under EOM, indicating Government's strong commitment to
improved O&M. During the initial "learning period", EOM was begun on some
areas before they were properly equipped for this, partly because sufficient
special maintenance (SM) funds were not allocated and partly due to incorrect
sequencing of SM and EOM activities. This made additional SM necessary on
about 28% of the EOM area after EOM had begun.
The actual project cost is about the same as the appraisal estimate
when expressed in rupiah but, due to several devaluations of the exchange
rate, the current estimate of US$340.8 million is only about 95% of the
appraisal estimate in US dollars (see Part III, Table 5A). About 26Z of the
total project cost was for Government of Indonesia's (GOI) recurrent
expenditure on O&M.



- iv -
Results
The Project has been successful in supporting a change in GOI's
priorities towards O&M, cost recovery and the privatization of small public
irrigation schemes, and helping commence redefinition of the roles of central
and provincial agencies in the O&M of the irrigation systems. These were
fundamental changes in the irrigation subsector strategy, considering that in
the past the emphasis had been on expansion and rehabilitation, and neglect of
O&M. The progress on implementing the action plan has been satisfactory as
summarized below:
*    Policy 1:  Funding of O&M. Recent annual budgetary releases for
O&N and the area of irrigation turned over to WUAs have exceeded
the SAR estimates. GOI's strong commitment to irrigation O&M
funding has brought substantial improvement in O&M on a large area
(para 6.1.a).
*    Policy 2:  Cost Recovery for Irrigation O&M.  The amount of
property tax collected from rural areas is increasing faster than
domestic inflation. The area of mapping, reclassification and
assessment for rural property tax has exceeded the SAR estimate
(para 6.1.b).
*    Policy 3:  Irrigation Service Fees (ISF).  ISF pilot schemes have
been introduced in parts of four provinces and have been shown to
be an acceptable and feasible means of recovering costs of O&M for
irrigation. The percentage of the assessed amount that is actually
collected has declined recently partly because of the drought in
1991 and perhaps due to lack of sanctions for non-payment of ISF
(para 6.1.c).
*    Policy 4:  Institutional Development.  The decentralization
strategy of the project appears to have worked well, especially in
Java provinces where Provincial Irrigation Services (PRIS) are
operating irrigation systems in a professional manner. Seven PRISs
have been restructured. Extensive training was given to PRIS staff
and members of WUAs (para 6.1.d).
*    Policy 5:  Budgeting and Programming for O&M.  O&M funding was
simplified. Several provinces have established methods of
allocating local revenues to O&M of irrigation and swamps. All
EOM provinces prepare needs-based budgets (NBBs), which form the
basis of allocations among irrigation areas within an irrigation
district. The allocations from the center to provinces are made on
the basis of the EOM area and unit cost which are then prioritized
within provinces, and irrigation districts in line with the actual
needs.
*    Policy 6:  Rationalization of Investment Expenditures.  The
findings of an investment study completed in 1989 were not accepted
by GOI. A further study financed by the U.S. Agency for
International Development is underway. Studies by the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Government of the



v 
Netherlands (GON) and the Bank's agricultural sector review are
also under way. While the Repelita V gives a high priority to O&M
and completion of viable ongoing projects for full agricultural
utilization, it also emphasizes a rapid pace of expansion of
irrigation areas which appears questionable.
Completion of Ongoing Projects. Irrigation projects with an
incremental area of about 58,000 ha (SAR estimate 70,000 ha) and about 30,000
ha of swamp projects (SAR estimate 28,200 ha) and river projects protecting
about 21,000 ha have been completed.
Groundwater Development. About 2,500 ha (SAR estimate 2,650 ha) in
Sulawesi and East Java and about 1,600 ha (SAR estimate 1,130 ha) in a pilot
program on Lombok are served by the project works.
Sustainability
With the assumption that needs based budgets will continue to be
realistically prepared and EOM budgets provided at the needed level, there is
a basis for optimism that SM and EOM areas and the completed ongoing projects
would continue to operate at the same level of efficiency, as originally
designed and constructed. Sustainability of irrigation schemes turned over to
WUAs would be achieved with a continued commitment of the WUAs and, in the
event of major emergency repairs being needed, with the capability of PRIS to
arrange for the implementation of such work.
Findings and Lessons
The project has demonstrated that a direct approach (underpinned by
a Subsector Policy Statement) to establishing satisfactory procedures,
institutional arrangements and funding provisions for O&M as core project
objectives can be more successful than treating these issues as secondary
objectives under individual investment projects. The project attracted high
level Government support during preparation and appraisal and this has been
largely sustained.
Adequate O&M is well worth the incremental cost if it sustains full
agricultural benefits and makes rehabilitation unnecessary. Government is
maintaining its commitment to adequate O&M.
To make schemes suitable for EOM, it is desirable that
rehabilitation and/or SM are completed before the introduction of EOM. This
cannot be done if rehabilitation/SM is limited by a budget ceiling which is
too low to allow all needed work to be done. Budgets should, therefore, be
adjusted to suit needs defined by agreed criteria.
ISF has been introduced in pilot areas without opposition, but
continued high level Government support and possibly provisions for sanctions
against non-payment are needed to extend the ISF on a sustainable basis.



- vi -
The Bank's interest in limiting the construction of new irrigation
to completion of ongoing projects meeting criteria approved by the Bank has
not always been followed by GOI, due to its concern about employment, regional
development and rice self-sufficiency. This project, however, helped GOI to
prioritize its "core" expenditure program, particularly with regard to O&M.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name        Irrigation Subsector Project
Loan No.         :  Loan 2880-IND
RVP Unit            East Asia and Pacific Region
Country          :  Indonesia
Sector          :  Agriculture
Subsector       :  Irrigation
2. Background
2.1       Expansion of irrigation infrastructure in Indonesia made a major
contribution to bringing the country to self-sufficiency in rice.  HcGever,
this successful expansion was not accompanied by sufficient effort to
efficiently maintain and operate much of the 4.8 million ha of the public
irrigation systems. Consequently, many systems were poorly maintained. A
shift of national focus away from new investment towards operation and
maintenance (O&M) was needed to avoid a massive and much more costly
expenditure in both financial and economic terms. The recognition of the
importance of O&M, coming at the same time as Indonesia was reaching rice
self-sufficiency and facing severe budgetary constraints, led to a redirection
of Government of Indonesia's (GOI) priorities towards efficiently operating
and maintaining existing systems and the completion of priority ongoing
projects. Recognizing that this shift in focus was critical to optimizing the
returns from investments in irrigation and preventing a decline in
agricultural yields, GOI in 1987 issued a Statement of Policies for Irrigation
Operation and Maintenance, which enunciated and evolved six policies and
defined medium-term actions on subsector-wide O&M funding, institutional
strengthening and cost recovery (see Annex 1).
2.2       The Project was designed to support the implementation of the Policy
Statement by improving the condition of irrigation systems so that they could
be more effectively operated and maintained, ensuring that adequate funds were
available for O&M, improving the quality of O&M, strengthening institutions
involved with O&M, and transferring the responsibility of O&M of smaller
systems to WUAs.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1       Objectives.  The Project was to be the first phase of a program
aimed at supporting the six basic goals outlined in GOI's Statement of
Policies for Irrigation O&M, which are to: (a) ensure adequate and timely



-2-
funding for efficient O&M (EOM), with expenditures in line with actual needs
of each irrigation system; (b) simplify O&M programming, monitoring and budget
planning; (c) introduce direct cost recovery for O&M expenditures from
irrigation beneficiaries; (d) increase local revenue generation through land
reclassification, valuation and training of assessors; (e) support
institutional development, particularly by strengthening provincial irrigation
agencies, Water Users' Associations (WUAs) and farmers' groups to enable a
greater transfer of responsibility for O&M of main and secondary systems to
provincial authorities and of smaller systems to WUAs; and (f) rationalize
expenditure programs in the irrigation subsector and formulate a realistic
irrigation investment strategy for Repelita V (1989 to 1994). Detailed
policies had been formulated for each of these goals and a monitorable action
plan (see Annex 2) had been designed to implement the steps necessary to
achieve them.
3.2       Project Description.  The Project, which was to have been
implemented over the 3-year period from October 1987 to September 1990, was to
consist of the following components:
(a) The implementation of special maintenance (SM) works,
comprising deferred maintenance and minor upgrading on about
400,000 ha of irrigated land and about 106,000 ha of reclaimed
swamp land, where O&M had been so badly neglected that SM was
needed prior to introducing EOM on these areas. About five
river-mouths were included for SM, on a pilot basis. Detailed
preparation and design work were to be carried out for about
200,000 ha of irrigated areas and 55,500 ha of swamp requiring
SM, to be covered in the first year of a subsequent project;
(b) Systematic introduction of EOM on about 700,000 ha of irrigated
land and 87,000 ha of swamp land;
(c)  Completion of about 30 high-pri-ity ongoing projects (about
100,000 ha), selected on the basis of agreed technical and
economic criteria;
(d) Pilot groundwater development through construction of some
900 tubewells for small farmers in primarily rainfed areas;
(e) Support for GOI's policy reforms in the subsector, including
privatization of small public irrigation systems and a pilot
scheme for introduction of direct irrigation service fees, and
augmenting the provincial/local revenues in lieu of continued
central Government subsidies via land reclassification and
valuation needed for large-scale introduction of the new
property tax (PBB) in rural areas;
(f) Support for institutional strengthening and training, including
O&M manpower planning and development, strengthening of the
central, provincial and district level institutions responsible
for irrigation O&M and of WUAs; and



-3-
(g) Technical assistance and studies in support of the above
components.
3.3       The total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$359.1
million, including about US$91.2 million for recurrent O&M of all GOI's
irrigation and swamps throughout Indonesia. This was to be financed by loans
of US$234 million from the Bank and the equivalent of about US$9.4 million
from the Government of the Netherlands (GON) and grants of the equivalent of
US$2.4 million from GON, US$3 million from the Government of Italy and US$0.6
million from the Ford Foundation.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       Although the importance of adequate O&M was agreed and understood by
the Bank and GOI, there were some important differences of emphasis concerning
the Project that were not fully resolved. The Bank appears to have been
aiming for a statement of irrigation subsector policies (see SAR, para 2.2)
and a redirection of GOI's priorities away from expansion and modernization of
irrigation systems (see SAR, para 1.1), whereas what was agreed for inclusion
in the Project was a statement of policies for irrigation O&M and
rationalization of expenditure program in the irrigation subsector with
greater emphasis on irrigation O&M. At negotiations for the Loan, the Bank
tried to persuade GOI to suspend expenditure on GOI-funded ongoing projects
(apart from those selected for completion under the Irrigation Subsector
Project (ISSP)).   Government resisted this and the Bank deleted the relevant
clause from the draft Loan Agreement on the grounds that GOI had reduced the
number of projects solely funded by GOI and that ISSP would include an
investment strategy study, which would assess all existing and proposed
investment projects in the irrigation subsector and formulate a realistic
investment strategy.
4.2       The Project was unusual in that, because of GOI's highly constrained
budgetary situation at that time, their total expenditure on O&M of irrigation
and swamps throughout the country was included in the project cost.
Incremental EOM, but not recurrent O&M, was financed by the Loan on a
declining basis to expire over a period of five years from the introduction of
EOM in a system. GOI committed to maintain the 1986/87 level of funding for
the annual national recurrent O&M budgets, and provide additional funding
needed for incremental EOM.
4.3       This was a complex project involving four Government departments and
at least eight directorates at central Government level, as well as the
corresponding agencies at provincial and district levels in 17 provinces. The
Project included nine components as well as studies and training. In general,
roles and responsibilities were reasonably well defined but some readjustment
was needed during project implementation (see para 5.2).
4.4       Consultants employed by GOI, financed under other Bank loans, were
used to prepare the components dealing with SM, EOM, ongoing and groundwater
projects.



-4-
5. Project Implementation
5.1       The Project was implemented in accordance with the proposals
outlined in the SAR. The Loan became effective in January 1988 and closed on
July 31, 1991; about 96Z of the Loan was disbursed. The total project cost in
rupiahs was about the same as the appraisal estimate but, when expressed in US
dollars (US$340.8), was only 95X of the SAR estimate due to devaluations of
the Rupiah (see Annex 3, Table 1). There were substantial increases in the
area under EOM (45Z more than the SAR estimate for irrigation schemes and 71X
for swamps). However, EOM was introduced prematurely, before the physical
conditions were adequate to introduce EOM, on about 280,000 (28Z of the final
EOM area). The incorrect sequencing of activities reflected, during the early
"learning years", in part an attempt by some provinces to achieve annual
Repelita V targets for EOM. This was also partly due to a thin spread of SM
works rather than completing SM on fewer systems. This made additional SM
necessary on about 28% of the EOM area after EOM had begun. These works have
now been completed under ISSP II (Loan 3392-IND). The PBB component went well
and the area reclassified was about 30% greater than SAR proposals. The area
which includes new groundwater facilities is about 9% greater than SAR
proposals.
5.2       Irrigation service fees (ISF) have been introduced in parts of four
provinces and have been shown to be an acceptable and feasible means of
recovering costs of O&M for irrigation. The area on which ISF are collected
(48,836 ha) is less than the 125,000 ha estimated at appraisal (but close to
the revised target of 50,000 ha agreed between GOI and the Bank in 1989), due
to one-year delay in the start-up of the ISF program and the institutional
complexities in launching of the program.
6. Project Results
6.1       The Project has been successful in supporting the objective set out
in the SAR, which was to change Government's priorities towards O&M, cost
recovery and the privatization of small public irrigation schemes, and help
commence redefinition of the roles of central and provincial agencies in the
O&M of irrigation systems. In addition, completion of ongoing projects and
the pilot groundwater project have been successfully completed. The progress
on implementing the action plan is shown in Annex 1 and summarized below:
(a) Policy 1: Funding of O&H. Recent annual budgetary releases
for O&M1 have exceeded those estimated in the SAR. GOI's
strong commitment to O&M funding has brought substantial
improvement in the physical conditions of many systems and
1    Total 0X1 allocations were:
Year   1987/88      19S8/89     1989/90      1990/91      1991/92
SARo/  48.1         48.1        62.3         53.2        59.6 xleRp
SARb/  46.1         S0.6        56.4         69.1        68.6
Actual  46.0        69.6        78.6         91.7        118.6
a/ Annex 6, Table 7.
b/ Adjusted for Inflation.
Actual are DOI-I figuren and includo Jntiluhur and swamps.  Soe Annex 1 for figures for
recurrent OhM as reported by the Detailed Action Plan Monitoring of 31 July 1991.



-5-
their sustained EOM. The area of irrigation turned over to
WUAs was 21,353 ha in 255 schemes, up to the end of March 1991
(SAR target 20,400 ha on 200 schemes). A further 14,510 ha has
been turned over in 1991/92.
(b) Policy 2: Cost Recovery for Irrigation OWH. After a slow
start, the amount of property tax collected from rural areas
increased faster than domestic inflation during the same
period. Mapping, reclassification and assessment for rural
property tax have been completed on 522,000 ha (SAR target
400,000 ha).
(c)  Policy 3:  Irrigation Service Fees.   ISF have been introduced
in four provinces and have been shown to be an acceptable and
feasible means of recovering costs of O&M for irrigation2.
This is an encouraging achievement. Because of the
institutional complexities in launching of the ISF program and
about one-year delay in the start-up of the program, the ISF
target area was scaled down to about 50,000 ha (125,000 ha in
SAR) during the project's mid-term review in 1989. The area
(48,836 ha) on which ISF is collected is close to this. The
pilot program, a noteworthy feature of which is the farmers'
participatory approach followed in the pilot areas, achieved
success in: clarifying the issues involved; conceptualizing
the framework for introduction of ISF; enactment of the
requisite legal framework; and mobilization of WUAs and their
training. The ISF initially were about Rp 12,000/ha/annum at
about an average collection efficiency of 80Z. However, the
actual cost recovery as percentage of the assessed ISF declined
to about 55Z on average during the last (1990/91 crop season)
year. This is partly due to the effect of the 1991 drought and
perhaps due to the lack of any sanctions against non-payment of
1SF and poor services given in some areas. The sharp decline
in ISF collection in two pilot areas8 gives cause of concern
(see para. 7.4).
(d) Policy 4: Institutional Development. Seven irovincial
Irrigation Services (PRIS) have been restructured. About 1,300
staff have been transferred to PRIS in Java, North Sumatra and
East Nusa Tenggara. Extensive training has been given to a
large number of PRIS staff and members of WUAs, and a
management information system survey has been completed. The
decentralization strategy, strengthening of PRIS organization
and training of PRIS staff appear to have worked well. This is
reflected in the Java Provinces in the professional way PRISs
are operating the irrigation systems.
2    Tho ISF are based on actual O& cost (NBB + collection cost) reduced to take account
of l-vol of irrigation and drainage service provided and with an introduction factor
which rises from 0.6 in Year 1 to 1.0 in Year 6. Initial ISF were in the region of
Rp12,000/hs/year.
J    44X in Sidrrp (S. Sulawesi) and 36X in Nganjuk (E. Java).



- 6 -
(e)  Policy 5:  Budgeting and Programing for O&M.  O&M funding has
been simplified. EOM areas receive funds from national budgets
and non-EOM areas from provincial budgets (APBD). Funding for
EOM after the Bank's contribution expires will be from APBD.
Where ISF is collected, budgetary mechanisms have to be put in
place to use the collected fees for regular O&M. Several
provinces have established methods of allocating PBB revenues
to O&M of irrigation and swamps. The contribution of PBB
revenues in the national recurrent O&M budget in 1991/92 was
about 15Z of the total. Central Government allocations to
provinces are based on average unit cost per hectare. All EOM
provinces have prepared needs-based budgets (NBBs) for 1990/91
and 1991/92 and allocations within the provinces and irrigation
districts were prioritized on the basis of NBBs.
(f) Policy 6: Rationalization of Investment Expenditures. The
findings of an investment study completed in 1989 were not
accepted by GOI. A further study, financed by U.S. Agency for
International Development has begun. Studies by FAO and GON
and the Bank's agricultural sector review are also under way.
Although provision for O&M has increased (para 6.1(a)), and
given highest priority in allocations, provision for
construction of new irrigation have also increased i.e. from
44Z of the Directorate-General of Water Resources Development's
(DGWRD) expenditures in 1988/89 to 51? of the 1992/93 budget.
6.2       Physical Components.  Progress on physical components has generally
been at or somewhat above the appraisal targets. The area of SM completed is
close to the target while the areas of EOM well exceeded the targets.
Completion of ongoing projects was the largest component of the Project in
terms of cost at appraisal (33? of base costs). DGWRD seemed to place
particular emphasis on this component. Some 26 irrigation projects with an
incremental area of about 58,000 ha (SAR estimate 70,000 ha) have been fully
or partially completed for a cost of about US$1,200/ha. River projects have
protected about 21,000 ha and improved irrigation to about 8,000 ha. About
30,000 ha (SAR estimate 28,200 ha) of swamp projects have been completed at a
cost of about US$300/ha. About 2,500 ha of groundwater development in
Sulawesi and East Java (SAR estimate 2,650 ha4) are served by project works
at a cost of about US$3,000/ha. On Lombok, 116 schemes irrigate 1,575 ha (SAR
estimate 1,130 ha) at a cost of about US$4,800/ha.
6.3       The economic rate of return (ERR) estimates for various project
components have been recalculated, making modest estimates of benefits and
assuming that all irrigation systems would be properly maintained throughout
their economic life. If maintenance is neglected, ERRs would drop
significantly. In general, the reestimated ERRs, which are based on
generalized estimates of incremental benefits, are similar to those estimated
at appraisal (see Annex 3 for details). Notable differences are for
Thero is some ambiguity in the SAR: pira 2.14 seems to say that the project includes
4,670 ha In East Java and Sulawesi and about 1,600 he on Lombok but Annex 3, Tables 7
*nd 8 make it clear that those are longer term targets.



completion of typical ongoing projects (PCR 37Z compared to 23Z in SAR5) and
groundwater projects, which the PCR shows as being economically unviable in
Lombok, largely due to the high investment cost (see para 6.2). The overall
ERR for the Project is estimated to be 29Z for construction, which drops to
23Z when the costs of institutional strengthening and technical assistance are
included.
7. Prolect Sustainability
7.1       The main objective of the Project was to make irrigation in
Indonesia sustainable by ensuring that irrigation systems were maintained in
full operating condition. Given that the O&M budgets are provided at the
needed (NBB) levels, there is a basis of optimism that SM and EOM areas and
areas of completed ongoing projects would be fully sustainable. When the Bank
funds are no longer provided for EOM, the intention is that funding should be
from APBD. Careful monitoring of EOM systems in the future would be required
to confirm that this funding is adequate. In order to ensure that systems
placed under EOM are in good working order, the amount allocated for SM should
be tailored to the actual needs.
7.2       Sustainability of schemes turned over to WUAs would essentially
require good maintenance of the systems by WUAs which will depend upon the
ability of farmers to pay their share of O&M costs. The self-management by
WUAs and the importance of irrigation to an individual farmer's livelihood
provide reasons to expect that most of the turned over systems would be
sustainable. However, the turned over systems are likely to require
assistance (technical and financial) from PRIS in the event of major emergency
repairs becoming necessary. Arrangements exist in the budgetary system to
support such repairs through provincial budgets, for farmer-owned and farmer-
managed systems.  Moreover, continued technical guidance (from PRIS) to
existing WUAs would be needed if they are to remain effective.
7.3       There is no reason to doubt that the improved collection of PBB will
continue.
7.4       The percentage of the assessed irrigation service fee that is
actually collected has shown a decline recently (para 6.1(c)) and this gives
cause for considerable concern. There is a strong risk that the initial
momentum established during the Project could be lost. The decree of the
Minister of Home Affairs (MHA) concerning the ISF pilot scheme lapsed in April
1992. This is in process of being extended and collections are still in
force.  The Government is working on the legal framework for ISF and the
mechanism for collecting them for expanding the program on a sustainable
basis. The role of BAPPENAS in support of the Policy Statement and that of
DGWRD/PRIS on the provision of irrigation services are exceedingly important
for the implementation of ISF. A Unit in MHA specifically responsible for ISF
needs to be established soon. Even if irrigation services improve, as is
happening, sustainable expansion of ISF on a national scale will require
6    For discussion of this, see Annex 3.



-8-
strong political will and adequate sanctions against non-payment of ISF by
farmers. The latter is essential to provide an incentive to pay.
7.5       Groundwater projects are generally sustainable because of assured
water supplies throughout the year for actual crop needs. However, the
sustainability of any completed system will depend on the fees collected by
WUA and the operational management it provides.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       The Bank performed well in identifying the need for this project
and, in collaboration with GOI, developing the new policies for O&M which are
reflected in the policy statement. Some compromise was necessary to reach
agreement on the policy statement and on the components in the Project (see
para 4.1). The Project was kept short so that lessons learned could be
incorporated into the second phase project (ISSP II), appraised in 1990 and
approved in September 1991. These lessons, which are detailed in the SAR for
ISSP II (Report No. 681-IND), include the need for correct sequencing of SM
and EOM, the need for simplified operating procedures and the need for
flexible budgeting for SM. The supervision of ISSP II should pay more
attention to the allocation of budget and actual expenditures of GOI if a
realistic picture of expenditure patterns is to be obtained.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       Project preparation by Bank staff was based on work by consultants
employed by the Borrower, specifically for the preparation of this project and
provided a satisfactory basis for the Project.
9.2       The Borrower has generally performed satisfactorily during project
implementation. Adequate funds were available and no serious staff shortages
were reported. The Borrower employed General Coordinating Consultants (GCC)
to coordinate and monitor progress of the Project and on the Action Plan.
This was of considerable assistance to the Bank's supervision of the Project.
The Borrower generally complied with the covenants of the Loan Agreement
except that audit reports were often late.
9.3       Weaknesses in project implementation included incorrect sequencing
of SM and EOM and variable construction quality, particularly in the outer
islands, due in part to deficiencies in construction supervision.
9.4       Procurement of pumps and other equipment for the groundwater
component was unduly delayed due to lack of prompt decisions by the DGWRD,
concerning award of contracts.
9.5       Part of the institutional strengthening included establishment of
project benefit monitoring and evaluation (PBME) units at regional and central
levels. The regional units appear to be functioning well, a sound M&E system
is in place and field data collection is satisfactory. However, coordination,
analysis and reporting of the project data have not been carried out at the
central level and much of the data collected remain unused and not easily



-9-
accessible. Emphasis on analysis and reporting of key indicators must be
given under ISSP II, as should more detailed recording of project costs and
physical achievements. Conclusions drawn from analyses of project data should
be disseminated to all levels, especially to the PBME units who collected the
data.
10. Project Relationships
10.1      Good relations were maintained between the Borrower and the Bank
with reasonable continuity of Bank staff involved with project supervision.
Relationships with cofinanciers were satisfactory. The usual lack of
communication between Ministries involved in project implementation was to a
great extent overcome by having the GCC.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Consulting services had a substantial role in all aspects of the
Project. Eighteen consultancies, which cost about US$54 million, made up 16Z
of project costs. Generally, consultants performed satisfactorily, but
considerable effort was required from the Bank and GON to ultimately achieve a
satisfactory result of the institutional strengthening study, which finally
turned out to be a very useful study, and the findings of the investment
strategy study were not accepted by GOI. An unusual but a fruitful feature of
the Project was the employment of GCC, whose duties included the thorough
monitoring of the action plan.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR provided a useful framework for the implementation of a
subsector Project. The Action Plan, which was given in the SAR, was carefully
monitored throughout the Project.
12.2      Detailed data were not readily available for preparation of the PCR.
Most costs in the PCR are approximate, but close to actuals, since it has not
been practicable to reconcile data from different sources. Because adequate
project benefit monitoring data were not available (see para 9.5), the PCR
analyses are based on largely unsubstantiated mission estimates.



- 10 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
COMMENTS ON PART I
1.1        Project Design and Implementation. The Project's objectives have been
to support the six basic goals outlined in GOI's Statement of Policies for
Irrigation O&M. These goals are clearly stated in Part I and do not need to be
repeated. However the complexity of the Project, as opposed to its objectives,
has created problems when trying to link achievements under these objectives with
the implementation of the physical components outlined under the project
description. A case in point is that whilst over a third (34Z) of project costs
have been attributable to completion of on-going projects and pilot groundwater
development they have only had an indirect impact in achieving the projects
objectives. Apart from SM associated with the turnover programme, none of the
physical components of the Project were used as direct monitoring indicators
under the Action Plan. The project review does not attempt to address how the
achievements under the various components have contributed to the Project's
success in supporting and achieving GOI's goals for irrigation O&M.
1.2        To overcome the projects complexities Part 1 presents the results as
a mix of both policy and physical achievements without defining their linkages.
This makes it more difficult to put lessons learned and performance weaknesses
into their correct context and assess their impact on achievement of the
objectives. A further complication has been the need for 18 separate packages
covering the studies and technical assistance. Whilst the majority of these had
a well defined scope that covered discrete components and policy objectives, some
overlapped and could not be adequately coordinated.
1.3        Allowing for the projects complexity, implementation went relatively
smoothly. Understandably because of the large number of agencies involved there
was, during the initial year, a need to clarify project objectives especially at
the provincial level, but SAR implementation targets were generally met and in
the case of EOM, substantially exceeded.
2. Project Impact and Sustainability
2.1        The Project has had a major impact on the goal of realising the full
potential of Indonesia's irrigation systems. Through the introduction of EOM on
nearly a quarter of the countries irrigated area (Policy 1), a large proportion
of systems are now in better physical condition and have rationalised budgeting
procedures for O&M based on an assessment of individual system needs (Policy 5).
The turnover of small irrigation systems to WUA (Policy 1) has prooved to be a
realistic goal, and the pilot introduction of ISF has provided the groundwork for
a country wide programme of phased introduction of cost recovery for O&M (Policy
3).



- 11 -
2.2        The recalculated values of ERR for the physical components are similar
to those derived at project preparation and included in the SAR. However it is
worth noting that the overall costs of special maintenance, and additional cost
of EOM,  require only small additional benefits to produce such ERR. It is
unlikely, in the short term, that any PBME system would be able to detect small
yield changes. It is also worth noting that average irrigated rice yields in Java
are already above the 5.1 t/ha used for the with project case. However in view
of the academic nature of the calculation of such ERRs the average values used
to reflect the results of the Project are considered reasonable.
2.3        The GOI's commitment to maintain EOM levels of O&M funding, even after
schemes are no longer eligible for receiving World Bank funds, has already been
demonstrated during 1992/93 through equivalent funding being allocated for the
EOM area that has moved to full funding under APBD. This demonstrates the
commitment by GOI to ensure that project achievements are sustainable.
3. Technical Assistance
3.1        The General Coordination Consultant,  through the General Expert,
provided important support and assistance to the General Coordinator through
workshops and seminars aimed at the coordination and dissemination of project
goals and objectives to all concerned agencies. The methodology of such necessary
coordination was included in the GCC Inception Report combined with their second
Quarterly Report.
4. Lessons Learned
4.1        Problems  during  project  implementation  were,  to  some  extent,
inevitable and should not be seen as inherent weaknesses in Borrower performance.
It is accepted that construction quality was variable and that insufficient
budget allocated for SM generated the need for additional SM to be undertaken on
schemes already included under EOM. But these problems were identified and
efforts were made to rectify them; there was no conscious effort on the Borrowers
part to implement the SM and EOM activities out of sequence. Lessons learned
from the first phase of the Project were discussed in great detail, during the
preparation for ISSP-II, to ensure that measures were put in place to build on
experience in project implementation.
COMMENTS ON PART III
5.1        The data contained in Part III is considered to reflect adequately the
implementation of the Project. Comments on the presented loan disbursement data,
based on DGWRD information, together with a more detailed breakdown of the
undisbursed amount, are included in Section 3.2. A considerable part of the
supporting data relates to the re-estimate of ERR and although the assumptions
are considered reasonable, these revised ERRs should not be seen as the only
measure of the Projects success (Para. 2 above).



- 12 -
BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
6. General
6.1        The Irrigation Subsector Project was the first Sector Loan Project to
support the GOI Policy Statement of 1987. As stated in the Loan Agreement and
Section I, the Project consisted of several components, implemented by several
agencies spread over 18 provinces (see Table 3.1). Loan reimbursement was by
Special Account procedures and new administrative methods from the World Bank
were required to implement this sector loan.
6.2        The Project was complex and the level of coordination needed, required
strong management. During the first six to nine months of project implementation
World Bank RSI staff considered the Project to be unmanageable, but despite this,
project implementation was largely well coordinated and managed.
6.3        To fully understand  the content  of the Project  and activities
undertaken, it needs the detailed study of all documents available. But a
significant problem was how to disseminate all of the issues covering all
components to all the agencies concerned, both at Central and Provincial levels.
Such coordinated dissemination of information is an art, and the supporting role
of GCC consultants in this case was sound and effective. In general the
coordination of the Project between the agencies concerned (Bappenas, DGWRD,
DGFCA, DGPUOD, DGTAX, DGA and BPKP) both at Central Government and Provincial
Government levels was excellently done and has provided a sound basis for
implementing similar projects.



- 13 -
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS AMONG PROVINCES
A                    B                 C                     D
gI.~~             ~~                                -------  - I                                   -         I -
I. A                        x. C 
I    c  Efficit 0S   X   X   X   X   X   X     X                            X   X   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c   0
I0 d  Ir                             a S   S1  S                      a X X
I. *MIAT*  .n   *  S                                                                                           4X
J.2Irri. Servie Fee              2 . p             U                                                   X
Uoor               *       U         0       c     -- t-   U   3 
b. Speci  Ma 1 ib I nt_**ec                                                             X   x.    X   X   xA
J.d  M                          4 Staff Training*                              _  _     X                X
S. RIVERSX
a. Ongoing Projects                                  X      X X           X X KK K K K
b. R1ivr  iouth            X               X X              X                           X   X          _
4. GIRrUWASTER DEVEeQ                      X        X           X X
S. TRADa<S POM                 X   X   X   X   X   X                 X                      X   X   X   X _X
. Project. toa atowr 
7   WO REciASSl FCATM                             X   X              X        X             x X       x X
PROGAMd                                                                  I     
4. E fIRfMTeL ST E             X   =                                                                        X  X
9.POECrIMITIN I             E   _         E   E   X    - -            X    - - -         X   X_           XX
D.  EST      STa DY        X    X   X   X   X                  X                             X   X   X   X
11. RITVR lL S                          X           X
STRENTSNt; uesr                          ___                              
X Projs Approved by thc Wrld 
E Existing Proja Mlealtorlng and Evalustlon.
b.RlverM.utha  K  K   X        K                      __  K   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 14 -
7. Disbursement and Replenishment
7.1        World Bank Loan.  The World Bank telex dated January 15, 1992 stated
that from the total Loan of US$ 234,000,000 an amount of USS 225,253,994.65 had
been disbursed. The undisbursed amount, cancelled as of December 11, 1991, was
US$ 8,746,005.35
7.2        Analysis of DGWRD records however shows that the amount disbursed was
less than the amount eligible for disbursement by about US$ 4 million. Details
are as follows:
* Total Special Account withdrawn            US$161,388,629.00
using replenishment procedure
* Total Special Account withdrawn            US$28,992.932,23
using reimbursement procedure
* Total Direct Payment                       US$42,886.723,23
Sub total                                  US$233,268,284.40
* Payments by the Project that could not
reimbursed by the Bank                     US$3,575,067.26
Total paid by GOI                            US$229,693,217.10
* Total disbursed by the World Bank          US$225,253,994.65
* Difference                                 US$4,439,222.45
The reasons for the difference between the GOI payment and the World Bank
disbursement are as follows:
I The supporting documentation for replenishment or reimbursement was
incomplete.
I The implementation of force-account budgets in the first and second
years of the Project using the Kas Negara Account No 501 was not well
recognized and it was only during the Project's third year that attempts
were made to re-collect missing supporting documents for replenishment.
* Implementation of contracts for EOM were sometimes delayed and therefore
carried  over  to  the  following  year.  This  resulted  in  the  EOM
disbursement percentage being lower then anticipated.
A detailed breakdown of the undisbursed loan by category is given in Table 3.2.
8. Cofinanciers Performance
8.1    The components under the Italian Government, for groundwater in Lombok,
and the Ford Foundation for turnover of small irrigation schemes, were



- 15 -
implemented excellently. The Italian Government and the Ford Foundation
cofinancing was done directly to the Project.
The Government of Netherlands (GON) cofinancing however was done through the
World Bank using the Special Account procedures. The total amount disbursed from
the GON cofinancing was US$ 6,750,000 and this amount was not included in the
World Bank US$ 225,253,994.65. The total allocation from the GON was US$
9,750,000
8.2    Although no specific problems were experienced with the GON cofinancing
it is thought that direct cofinancing, rather than through the Special Account,
would have allowed more meaningful involvement of GON representatives in project
supervision.
9. Fluctuation of the Exchange Rate
9.1    When the Loan was signed in 1987 the exchange rate was US$ 1 - Rp 1,650.
At Loan Closing the exchange rate was US$ 1 = Rp 1,910. No detailed adjustments
of the implemented program were made to cope with this large fluctuation in
exchange rate.
9.2    From the experience of the Project it is suggested that the change in
exchange rates should be incorp3rated into any ceilings for SM, EOM and the
turnover programmes under ISSP-II. Approval may be required from the Bank to use
Rupiah created by such exchange rate fluctuations.
10. Irrigation Service Fee (ISF)
10.1   As stated in Policy 3 of the Policy Statement for Irrigation O&M, in
order to directly recover the O&M costs from irrigation beneficiaries, in
relation to the benefits they receive from a regular and assured supply of water,
the Government will introduce a mechanism of collection from the beneficiaries
which will be established after a 5-year pilot period. About 25Z of the
irrigation schemes in Indonesia are inter-district systems and hold a strategic
value in supporting the goal of self sufficiency of rice production in Indonesia.
Three of the four pilot areas selected in 1987 were inter-district systems
(Subang in West Java is part of the Jatiluhur system, Sukohardjo in Central Java
is part of the Colo Kanan or Wonogiri system and Sidrap is part of the Sadang
system in South Sulawesi). The total area selected from these four pilot projects
was 125,000 ha but during implementation the total area was reduced to about
50,000 ha and the inter-district issues were therefore not well covered. Since
the ISF collection for recovering the irrigation O&M costs should be based on
complete irrigation systems these issue will need to be addressed during the
expansion/extension period under ISSP-II and an inter-unit working group, to
direct the consultant, should be established under the chairmanship of Bappenas
or DGPUOD, to expedite decision making and therefore improve the efficiency of
the consultancy activities.



- 16 _
11. Coordination
11.1   In general the coordination activities conducted by Bappenas, assisted
by DGWRD and supported by the General Coordination Consultant, were conducted
successfully and included the implementing agencies of DGWRD, DGPUOD, DGFCA, DG
TAX and the supporting unit of DGA and BPKP.
11.2   During the implementation of the Project, several Directorates involved
suggested that the Coordination Group could also coordinate other loan projects
within DGWRD. This issue was raised in 1991 during a joint meeting between the
Directorates within DGWRD, a World Bank review mission and an ADB review mission,
chaired by the Director of Planning and Programming. No agreement was reached at
that time and a modified proposal was developed limited to all World Bank
assisted projects within DGWRD, to be coordinated by the ISSP Coordination Group.
At the start of ISSP-II this proposal was raised again. Based on past experience
this proposal should be reviewed and further discussed with the World Bank.
BANK PERFORMANCE
12.1   Although the World Bank devoted adequate time and resources both during
project preparation and implementation, the large number of technical assistance
packages, complexity of the Project, and the number of institutions involved
affected the World Bank's ability to adequately monitor implementation and
evaluate the achievement of project objectives.
BANK AND BORROWER RELATIONSHIP
13.1   The coordination between the World Bank and Borrower during project
preparation and implementation was good. The Bank's Jakarta office (RSI) greatly
contributed to the excellent relationship between both parties. DGWRD as the
liaison organisation provided a sound forum for exchange of views and
administration of the programme. The relationship with confinanciers is discussed
in Para. 8 above.



- 17 -
Table 3.2: Breakdown of the Undisbursed Loan 2880-IND by Category
Cate  Description        DGWRD               Outside DGWRD     Total
gory
1     Civil Works        US$1,817,171.26   US$0                US$1,817,171.26
other than Part
B
2     Civil Works        US$766,737.54      US$0               US$766,733.54
Part B
3-A   Equipment &        US$175,467.54      US$0               US$175,467.54
Materials
3-B   Equipment DGWRD  US$132,016.37        US$0               US$132,016.37
3-C   Equipment IPEDA  US$0                 US$0               US$0
3-D   Equipment DGFCA  US$0                 US$456,476.51      US$456,476.51
4-A   Consultant         US$510,370.13      US$0               US$510,370.13
DGWRD
4-B   Consultant         US$0                (US$314,033.05)   (US$314,033.05)
IPEDA
4-C   Consultant         US$0               US$955,231.30      US$955,231.30
DGPUOD
5-A   Training DGWRD   US$673,313.83        US$0               US$673,313.83
5-B   Training IPEDA   US$0                 US$852,338.85    US$852,338.85
5-C   Training DGFCA   US$0                 US$923,415.25      US$923,415.25
Uncallocated      US$0                USRO              US$800,000.00
Refund for all   US$0                 US$0              (US$2,500.37)
categories
TOTAL             US$837,428.86      US$2,873,428.86  US$8,746,005.53



- 18 -
PART Dm[
STATISTICAL SUMMARY
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
CredstfLoan No.                Project                                Effective Date        Comments
Credit 0127             Irrigation Rehabilitation 1                        1969         PPAR, May 1978
Credit 0195             Irrigation Rehabilitation 11                       1970          PPAR, December 1980
Credit 0220             Irrigation Rehabilitation m                        1971          PPAR, December 1980
Credit 0289             Irrigation Rehabilitation IV                       1972          PPAR, December 1980
Credit 0514             Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     1974          PPAR, June 1987
Loan 1100               Irrigation VI                                      1975          PPAR, June 1987
Loan 1268               Irrigation Vn                                      1976         PPAR, October 1985
Loan 1434               Irrigation VIm                                     1977          PPAR, June 1987
Loan 1435               Irrigation DC                                      1977          PPAR, June 1987
Loan 1578               Irrigation X                                       1978          PPAR, June 1989
Loan 1579               Irrigation XI                                      1978          PPAR, June 1987
Loan 1645               Irrigation Xll                                     1981         PPAR, June 1987
Loan 1691               Lower Cimnnuk Flood Control (XIII)                 1981         PPAR, June 1987
Loan 1811               Irrigation XIV                                     1980         PPAR, June 1989
Credit 0995             Irrigation XV                                      1980         PPAR, June 1989
Loan 1958               Swamp Reclamation 1                                1981         PCR, June 1989
Loan 2118               lIrigation XVI                                     1982         PCR, November 1989
Loan 2119               Irrigation XVII                                    1982         PCR, June 1990
Loan 2375               Second Provincial Irrigation                       1984         PCR , January 1990
Loan 2431               Swamp Reclamation n1                               1984         ongoing
Loan 2543               Multipurpose Dam & Irrigation                      1985         ongoing
Loan 2560               West Tarum Canal Improvement                       1985         To close April 1992
Loan 2649               Central & West Java Provincial                     1986         ongoing
Loan 3392               Irrigation Subsector L (O&M)                       1991         ongoing
Loan                    Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development       1991         ongoing
Loan 2816               Urban Sector Loan
Note: The mot recent and relevant Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) are Reports Noa. 6864" and 79562. In addition, there have
algo been two Project Completion Reports (PCRa)1 relevant to recent performance that have not yet been audited by OED and a report by the
Intemational Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) on Indonesian irrigation development.
"PPAR, Irrigation Projects VI, VII, IX, XI and XII, (Loana 1100, 1434, 1435, 1579 and 1691-IND), June 30, 1998, Report No. 6864.
2 PPAR, Irrigation Projects X, XIV and XV (Loana 1578, 1811 and Credit 995-lND), June 30, 1989, Report No. 7956.
v PCRs, Irrigation XVI Project (Loan 21 18-lND), November 27, 1989, Report No. 8199 and Second Provincial Irrigation Development
Project (Loan 2375-IND), January 26, 1990, Repon No. 8336.
' Efficient Irrigation Management and System Tumover, IIMI, Colombo, Sri Lanka, December 1989, Report No. TA-937-IND.



- 19 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                   Date Planned       Date Revised          Date Actual
Identification                            October 1, 1986
(Executive Project                        December 18, 1986    January 14, 1987
Summary)
Preparation            February 1986                            March 1986
May 19, 1986
Appraisal Mission      May 1986           February 1987         February/March 1987
Loan Negotiations      January 1987       July 1987             September 15, 1987
Board Approval         May 1987           November 1987         November 10, 1887
Loan Signature                                                  December 3, 1987
Loan Effectiveness     February 1, 1988                        January 28, 1988
Project Completion     September 30, 1990                       March 31, 1991
Loan Closing           March 31, 1991                          July 31, 1991
Comments:
1. At project preparation there was considerable concern that, since GOI had for many years
ignored covenants requiring adequate maintenance, simply laving a policy statement would not
make GOI change its attitude. Other points agreed within the Bank included: the Bank would
not press for PBB revenues to be earmarked for irrigation O&M; the ISF component should be
restricted to a pilot programme; the policy statement need not stress that GOI was not
considering recovery of the cost of capital investments from beneficiaries.
2. At appraisal, the realism of a three-year project for the ambitious programme proposed and
the justification of the large amount of consultancy were questioned. The World Bank was keen
that GOI should make investments to expand the irrigation system only through subprojects
under the proposed project but GOI resisted this requirement which was dropped at negotiations.
3. Loan closing was delayed by six months so that more of the expenditure already incurred
could be processed for disbursement.
3. Loan Disbursements (US$ million)
1988   1989    1990    1991       1992
Appraisal Estimate         30.0   110.0    190.0   234.0     234.0
Actual                     15.95   93.16   173.45  205.47    225.25
Actual as % of Estimate    53      85       91      88        96



- 20 -
4. Project Implementation (see also Annex 1: Policy Statement and Action Plan)
Indicators                                                Appraisal Estimate      Actual or PCR Estimate    Actual as
% of SAR
No.          Ha           No.            Ha
SPECIAL MAINTENANCE
- Irrigation Projects                                                400,000                     440,238         110
- Swamps                                                    20       105,550                      96,610         92
- Small River Mouths                                         5                          5                       100
EFFICIENT O&M
- Irrigation Projects                                                700,000                    1,015,080       145
- Swamps                                                    12        86,800                     148,860        171
RECURRENT O&M                                                       4,339,899 1/                  3,227,952      74
2/
COMPLETION OF ONGOING PROJECTS
- Irrigation Projects                                       34        70,000           26         57,795         83
- Swamps                                                     4        28,200            4         30,400        108
- River Projects                                             4                          4                       100
GROUNDWATER
East Java
(i) DTW Drilling                                            40                         79
- Production Well                                       40                         69
- Distribution System                                   40         1,000           51          1,203        120
(ii) S/ITW Drilling 3/                                      60                         83
- Production Well                                       60                         83
- Distribution System                                   60           480           60            489        102
(iii) STW Drilling                                         300                        180
- Production Well                                      300                        179
- Distribution System                                  300           900          179            537         60
Central Sulawesi
- Drilling                                                  20                         30
- Production Well ITW                                       20)                        28
- Production STW                                              )I
- Distribution System                                       20           120           20            135        113
South Sulawesi
- Drilling                                                  25                         49
- Production Well rIW                                       25)                        24
- Production Well MTW                                         )                        20
- Production Well STW                                         )I
- Distribution System                                       25           150           25            179        119
West Nusateaggara (Lombok)                                 109         1,130          116          1,575        139
Total Command Area                                                     3,780                       4,118        109
TURNOVER PROJECTS                                          200        20,400          255         21,353        105
IRRIGATION SERVICE FEE                                       4       125,000            4         48,836         39
LAND MAPPING/RECLASSIFICATION AND
REVALUATION
- Pilot Mapping                                              1         5,000            1          5,000        100
- Reclassification/Valuation                                         400,000                     522,000        131
TRAINING
- Short-term BDP                                           700                        600                        86
- Diploma/Degree                                            98                         98                       100
- Main System O&M Staff                                 24,974                     26,167                       105
- Community Organizers                                   1,221                        508                        42
- IPEDA Field Staff 4/                                     360                          0 5/                      0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/STUDIES
- International MM (Consultancies)                         1,671                     (18) 6/
6/
- Local MM (Consultancies)                               3,944
1/ Project costs included all recurrent O&M cosu for all 001 irrigation and swamps throughout Indonesia. SAR, Annex 5,
Table 7 shows total design area for O&M as 5,400,000 ha; actual area is shown in Tables 2 and 3 to be 5,126,699. The area shown
here is based on the latter.
2/ Source: Final Report of Staff Training, EOM and SM for Irrigation, July 1991, Table 6,6. If this number were to be calculated
based on SAR estimate, adjusted for new areas from ongoing projects less areas turned over, it would be 4,029,601 ha.
3/ Shallow and intermediate tubwells. 4/ IPEDA is a local land tax now replaced by PBB. 5/ Postponed due to PBB reorganization.
6/ The SAR did not quote the number of separate consultancies. The PCR does not have an accurate estimate of the number of
man-months.



- 21 -
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Costs
SAR Estimates I/   Actual 2/    Actual as
(US$ million)   (US$ million)  % of SAR
SPECIAL MAINTENANCE
- Irrigation Projects                                                  58.0
- Swamps                                                                19.5
- Small River Mouths                                                    3.0
Sub-total                                               84.2           80.5          96
EFFICIENT O&M
- Irrigation Projects                                                  22.0
- Swamps                                                                2.8
Sub-total                                               18.0           24.8          138
RECURRENT O&M                                           91.2           89.7          98
COMPLETION OF ONGOING PROJECTS
- Irrigation Projects                                                  69.1
- Swamps                                                                8.9
- River Projects                                                        19.8
Sub-total                                              119.4           97.8           82
GROUNDWATER
- East Java                                                             7.2
- Central Sulawesi                                                      0.9
- South Sulawesi                                                        1.3
- West Nusatenggara                                                     7.6
Sub-total                                               14.6           17.0          117
TURNOVER PROJECTS                                        3.1            3.8          122
IRRIGATION SERVICE FEE                                   3.1            2.9          94
LAND MAPPING/RECLASSIFICATION AND                        4.0            1.5          37
REVALUATION
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND                           21.4          ,11.2          106
TRAIING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/STUDIES 3/                                        11.6
TOTAL 4/                                               359.1          340.8 5/       95
1/ Includes pro-rata distribution of physical and price contingencies.
2/ Rupiah expenditure has been converted to US dollars at the exchange rates shown in Annex 2, Table 1.
3/ TA which is not included in other items above. For SAR the cost is included in institutional
development and training.
4/ Does not include land aquisition and administration costs.
5/ Total project cost expressed in rupiah is Rp595,250 million or just over 100% of SAR estimate.



- 22 -
B. Project Financing
Source               Planned      Actual             Comments
IBRD Loan
1. Civil Works, excluding EOM       125.80        137.18
2. Civil Works for EOM               11.50         17.93
3. Equipment and Materials
(a) for groundwater                6.00           3.27
(b) other for DGWRD               10.24           8.87
(c) PBB/IPEDA                      0.40          0.30
(d) DGFCA                          0.66          0.19
(e) DGPUOD                         0.00          0.00
4. Consultants Service
(a) DGWRD                         39.85          43.69
(b) IPEDA/PBB                      0.85           1.74
(c) DGPUOD                                        1.86
5. Training, Mapping, Surveys
(a) DGWRD                         12.90           6.42
(b) IPEDA/PBB                      2.80           2.00
(c) DGFCA                          3.00           1.78
6. Unallocated                       20.00
Sub-total                           234.00        225.25 US$8,746,005.35 was cancelled.
7. Govemment of the Netherlands
- Civil Works                      9.40          11.30 20 million Dutch Guilders
converted at 1.77 Guilders/US$.
- Training                         2.00  )       2.88
- Institutional Study              0.40  )
Sub-total                            11.80         14.18
8. Government of Italy
- Consultants                      1.40           3.00
- Equipment                        1.60           1.70
Sub-total                             3.00          4.70
9. Ford Foundation                    0.60          0.72
10. GOI                             109.70         95.95
Total                               359.10        340.80



- 23 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benerits
Appraisal  Estimate at  Estimate at Full
Estimate  Closing Date   Development
Incremental Production (tons)
Paddy                                      653,068      620,000         620,000
Maize                                      143,595       55,000          55,000
Soyabeans                                  106,311      121,000          121,000
Groundnuts                                  21,189       41,000          41,000
Cotton                                         387           ni               ni
Incremental Employment (million man-days)      135           20              20
Note: ni - no information.
Based on areas, yields and cropping intensities shown in Annex 2.
B. Economic Impact - ERR
Appraisal    Estimate at Final
Estimate      Development
(%)             (%)
Special Maintenance and Efficient O&M
- Irrigation
Java                                    31              26
Outside Java                            26              29
- Swamps                                    20              21
Typical Ongoing Project                     23             37 /2
Groundwater
- Lombok                                    23               3
- Madiun, Surabaya                          18              12
- Sampean Baru                              22
Overall Project
-Case A                                     27              29
- Case B I/                                21              23
1/ Includes costs of institutional strengthening and technical assistance.
2/ This estimate may be on the high side due to analyses based on a few
schemes and on projection of production at full development levels.



- 24 -
C. Financial Impact 1/
SAR Estimate 3/          PCR Estimate 4/
Net Farn Incomes Per Hectare (Rp'000) 2/    Without        With       Without       With
Project      Project     Project      Project
Surface Irrigation
- Java                                        n.a.         985         1,890        2,093
- Outside Java                                n.a.          815        1,643        1,834
Ongoing Project                                 -            -         1,717        2,275
Swamps                                          -            -         1,426        1,609
Groundwater
- Lombok                                        -            -           984        1,659
- East Java/Sulawesi                            -            -         1,070        1,746
1/ For details see Annex 2.
2/ Excluding off-farm incomes, assuming 30% hired labour.
3/ Expressed in 1987 constant prices (multiply by 1.111 to convert to 1991 prices). Numbers shown
are from page 50 of SAR. Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2 showed Rpl,024 and Rp954 for Java and
outside Java respectively.
4/ Expressed in 1991 constant prices.
D. Studies
Study             Purpose as Defined at       Status          Impact of Study
Appraisal
Institutional Strengthening  To define changes and  Completed    A useful and comprehensive
Study                   adjustments needed in view of            study. DGWRD accepted the
redirection of expenditures              recommendations many of
towards O&M.                             which are being implemented
under ISSP II.
Investment Strategy Study  Improve project selection and  Completed    The findings of this study were
assess viability of existing and         not accepted by GOI.
proposed investment                      Bappenas has recently
programmes.                              commissioned another study of
this subject.
Five Environmental Impact Assess impact of irrigation on  Four studies  Considered generally adequate
Studies                 the population, health, malaria completed    for assessment of impacts but
control programmes and                   weak on mitigation and
introduce safeguards to protect          monitoring needed.
irrigation and groundwater
supplies from contamination.



- 25 -
7. Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement                Covenant                   Date               Status
3.01 (a)          Due diligence and efficiency.                    Complied.
Provide promptly funds, facilities.             Complied.
3.01 (b)          Carried out project in accordance with           Complied.
Statement of Policies and Action Plan.
3.02              Procurement in accordance with                   Complied.
Schedule 4.
3.03              Training satisfactory to Bank.                   Complied.
3.04 (a)          Take appropriate measures for malaria            Complied.
control.
3.04 (b)          Furnish environmental impact studies. 31 March 1990  Complied, but late.
3.05 (a)          Maintain Coordinating Unit in                    Complied.
DGWRD.
3.05 (b)          Cause Bappenas to coordinate                     In most provinces PRIS
monitoring and reporting.                       coordinates.
3.06              Maintain in each province a PMU.                 Complied.
3.07              Bappeda to coordinate project                    Mostly not complied.
implementation, monitoring and                  PRIS fulfilled this task.
progress.
4.01 (a)          Maintain records and accounts.                   Generally complied.
4.01 (b)(c)       Audit.                                           Complied, but often late.
Schedule 1
Para 3(b)(i)(A)   Budgetary allocations for 1988/89 for 30 June 1988   Complied.
O&M to maintain real levels of
1986/87 and provide for EOM.
Para 3(b)(i)(B)   Satisfactory expenditures for O&M in             Complied.
1987/88.
Para 3(b)(ii)(A)  Budgetary allocations for 1989/90 for 30 June 1989   Complied.
O&M to maintain real levels of
1986/87 and provide for EOM.
Para 3(b)(ii)(B)  Satisfactory expenditures for 1988/89.           Complied.
Para 3(b)(iii)(A)    Budgetary allocations for 1990/91 for 30 June 1990   Substantially complied.
O&M to maintain real levels of
1986/87 and provide for EOM.
Para 3(b)(iii)(B)  Satisfactory expenditures for 1989/90.          Complied.



- 26 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Fiscal Year PreaDr;isal    Appraisal   Negotiationa   Suoervision    Other        Total
1986        32.S                                                                33.2
1987        60.3         70.2                                       3.2        133.7
1988                       8 1         22.1          22.0           0.5         52.8
1989                                                 86.5                       86.5
1990                                                 49.1                       49.1
1991                                                 34.1                       34.1
1992                                                 18.9                        18.9
93 0         783          22.1         210.7           4.1        408.3
B. Missions
No.   Days    Special-
Month/Year      of      in      izations                Performance Rating Status /6
Persons  Field  Represented
Available   Project   Development Overal Covena
Funds  Management   Impact    Status
Through Appraisal   Feb/Mar 86    2        27 2/ I,E
May/June 86   2         18 2/ I,E
July/Aug 86    2        37 2/ 1
Oct 86        1         17    E
Nov. 86       1         15 2/  E
Appraisal          Feb/Mar 87    10               1,E,A,M
Appraisal through   June/July 87   3       11    1,E
Board Approval
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Supervision        Mar 88         3        7      I,M                                                 3/
Supervision        May/June 88   5                1,M,E,Inst                                          3/
Supervision        Aug 88         3        15     I,E              1          2            2          2
Supervision        Jan 89                         3/               1          2            2          2
Mid-term Review    May/June 89   10        27    1,E,M,A,G 4/    1            3            2          3
Supervision        July 89        7               1,E,M,G          1          2            3          2         2
Review of Progreu  Oct 89         15/             1                1          2            2          2         2
Supervision        Jan/Feb 90     5        25 2/ 1,E,A             1          2            2          2         2
Supervision        Sept/Oct 90    4               I,A              1          2            2          2         2
Supervision        Feb 91         3               l,A              1          2             1         2         2
PCR                Jan/Feb 92     2               I,E
1/ M - Survey and Mapping Specialist; Inst - Institution Specialist; I = Irrigation Engineer; E = Economist;
A   Agriculturlist; ( - Groundwater Engineer.
2/ Includes other project.
3/ The supervision report dated January 1989 summnarized earlier missions' aides-mdmoire. The PCR mission did not find
performance rtings for these.
4/ Includes irrigation engineer on behalf of Dutch Government. Separate reports were issued for the mid-term review and the
July 1989 supervision. It is not clear whether these were overlapping missions or one mission.
51 Only I person noted on Form 590. FTO refers to working on ISSP, together with the SSDP prepartion mission.
6/ Performance Rating Status: I - No significant problems; 2 - Moderate problems - significant but not critical
deviations from project goal; 3 - Major problems - requiring special attention and intensive supervision.



-27 -                                ANNEX 1
Page 1
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF POLICIES FOR IRRIGATION OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
I.   BACKGROUND
1.   Rice is the staple diet of the Indonesian population, and a large
proportion of the country's production of rice comes from irrigated
sawah areas.  With a population growth rate of 2,. per annum and
increasing per capita incomes, the demand for rice as a primary food
crop is expected to rise in the future.
2.   Concerted efforts have been made on a continuous basis from the
beginning of the first five year plan (Pelita I) to meet the increasing
national requirements of food.  Since 1985, these efforts have
decreased the dependency on food crop imports, especially rice.
The nation's production of rice comes from 5 million hectares of
irrigated fields, which grow two crops per year on average, and from
2 million hectares of rainfed land, on which rice is generally planted
once each year.
The increase in production has been achieved as a result of investments
in agriculture such as the adoption of modern varieties; use of
fertilizers; weed and pest control; adoption of appropriate cropping
calendars; and investments in irrigation such as rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems and construction of new schemes.
3.   Water resources development by the Government especially in the field
of irrigation, both new construction and rehabilitation, within the
context of increasing food production, has already been carried out
with satisfactory results.  Such investments have primarily been
financed from the Government's rupiah budget and foreign assistance.
The completion of construction is followed by the next stage of
management and care of the irrigation systems through what is commonly
known as operation and maintenance (O&M).
Operation       consists of activities to optimize the utilization of
the irrigation infrastructure.
Maintenance    consists of activities to care for the infratructure,
so that it can function as designed, thereby sustaining
the effectiveness of the irrigation systems.
Both activities should be carried out continuously, and supported by an
adequate budget, skilled personnel, appropriate procedu'res for planning
and implementation and, proper facilities for their efficient
implementation, as well as to aim for increased quality of intensified
agricultural food production.



-28-                                  AMEX 1
Page 2
Irrigation development during Pelitas I to IV concentrated on
rehabilitation (repairs and improvements) of existing syscems and
conscruccion of new schemes.
During this latter part of Pelita rV and approaching the beginning of
Repelita V, the time has come to give greater emphasis to O&i
activities.
4.   According to Water Law No. 11/1974, Section 12 and Government
Regulation (PP) No. 23/1982, Section 35, para. (2), the budget for O&M
of irrigation networks and related structures and facilities should be
borne by the Provincial Government.  These laws also set out the
intenc-on of asking beneficiary farmers to participate in O&M for main
systems and have overall responsibility for tertiary systems.
Recognizing that Provincial Governments were still unable to provide
the required budget for O&M, the Central Government has, since the
fiscal year 1974/75 provided subsidies for irrigation O&M through
INPRES DATI I (APBD); since 1984/85 such subsidies have been increased
through project funding for O&M (APBN).  Maintenance of O&M budget
levels in the last two years, despite major cucs in total investment
expenditures, reflects the Government's new policy approach and
recognition of the importance of O&M, and its commitment co increased
expenditures on efficient and adequate levels of O&M in che future.
Nevertheless, the average allocation per annum is well below actual
requirements.
The inadequate O&M Budget, personnel, equipment and facilities will
lead to rapid deterioration of the condition of the irrigation systems
and affect their performance thus reducing food production, especially
rice, and this is of increasing concern to the Government.
5.   The problem which is now encountered is how to provide an adequate O&M
budget in accordance with actual needs of each irrigation system; this
will necessitate an increase in the budget to be provided for O&M.
It is necessary to mobilize new sources other than the present Central
Government allocation, in the efforts to increase the O&M1 budget and
eventually to reduce dependence upon Central Government budgetary
support, namely:
5.1  From Land and Building Tax (PBB)
This may not be a dependable source, because the revenues from PBB
are required for regional and local development, especially in
Daerah Tingkat II (level of Kabupaten).
5.2  From the beneficiaries of irrigation development in che form of an
"Irrigation Service Fee," which should be related-to the quality
of service provided. The imposition of such a fee is in keeping
with Water Law No. 11/1974, Section 12 and Government Regulation
No. 23/1982, Section 35, para. (3). This is a more appropriate
and dependable source since it will be collecced solely for
meecing the O&M budget.



-29-                                 ANEX I
Page 3
6.   Besides mobilizing the sources mentioned in Section 5 above, especially
for smaller systems with an area of less than 500 ha, che
responsibility for O&M will be entrusted to the Water User's
Association.
This is possible, because there are already a large number of such
schemes managed by the villagers, designated as village irrigacion or
communal irrigation systems (INPRES 1/1969).  In this way, the
responsibility assumed by the beneficiaries can be further developed,
while reducing the number of schemes managed by the Government and more
attention can be paid to large and medium scale systems which cannot be
managed by the beneficiaries.
7.   The Government has formulated a set of policies which address six
fundamental issues related to the financing of O&M and other
expenditure in the irrigation subsector, under the following topics:
1.  'Funding of Operation and Maintenance
2.   Cost Recovery
3.   Irrigation Service Fee
4.   Institutional Development
5.   ProgramLing and Budgeting for O&M
6.   Rationalization of Investment Expenditures
B.   STATEMENT OF POLICIES
Policy 1: Funding of Oneration and Maintenance
After completing irrigation systems, Government recognizes that in
order to realize the full potential of irrigation systems and to
maximize the contribution of existing investments to agricultural
production goals, future policy should ensure expenditure on O&M thac
should be applied in line with che actual needs of irrigation systems.
Objectives:
1.1  To provide adequate and timely funding of O&M on all government
controlled schemes throughout Indonesia at a level sufficient to
ensure efficient OM, and the introduction of efficient operation
and maintenance on the entire Public Works irrigation system
within about 15 years. In order to accomplish this, the Central
Government will initiate a gradual increase in O&M funding through
more allocation from the INPRES and DGWRD development budget.
This increase in funding is required during the early years but
will decline as Provincial Government revenues and-irrigation
service fees as;ume a larger percentage of the total O&M costs.
1.2  To establish an agreed mechanism for ensuring that Provincial
Governments take a gradually increasing financial responsibility
for the O&M budget of main irrigation systems fr.om their own
revenues.
1.3  To ensure that adequate funding is applied in line with the actual
needs of the systems in areas which have already been upgraded and



-30-                                  ANNEX I
Page 4
efficient O&M has been introduced, an increase of the present
levels of O&M funding would be required. Also, that funds
currently expended on areas on which efficient O&M has not been
introduced will have their present allocations at least maintained
in real terms.
1.4  To give Water Users Association (WUAs) maximum responsibilities
for O&H, subject to the constraints imposed by their institutional
capacities and the technical characteristics, size and
administrative boundaries in which irrigation systems are located.
1.3 Within about 15 years, to gradually turn over the Government
irrigation systems of less than 500 ha each to the WUAs. As a
first step, over the period of Repelita V, most of the Government
irrigation systems lesa than 150 ha in size would be turned over
to WUAs. This figure is in line with the size of tertiary units
which, according to Government Regulation No. 23/1982, is now
legally the responsibility of the WUAs.
Policy 2: Cost Recovery for Irrigation 0&M
The Government policy is that the beneficiaries will eventually finance
O&M costs of main irrigation systems.
Objectives:
2.1 To implement a cost recovery system which will eventually finance
all costs of efficient 0&M of irrigation systems through increased
contributions from irrigation beneficiaries.
2.2 To improve indirect cost recovery and increase local government
revenue generation and their capacity for 0&M funding, through a
long-cerm program to raise PBB revenues on irrigated areas in all
provinces.
2.3 To expedite the conversion of the Land Tax (IPEDA) system to the
new PBB system through reclassification and reassessment of the
market value of irrigated properties, and to ensure that the
system is implemented effectively and yields the expected
revenues.
Policy 3: Irrigation Service Fees
In order to directly recover the O&M costs from irrigation
beneficiaries in relation to the benefits they receive from a regular
and assured supply of water, Government will extend the collection of
irrigation service fees,from the beneficiaries in other areas after the
Pilot Scheme period.  Since PBB may not be a dependable source, the
implementacion of direct cost recovery system, which eventually
finances all costs of efficient O&K of irrigation systems, should apply
irrigation service fee.  These fees are expected to gradually reduce
the need for Government funding subsidies and become the main source of
efficient O&M budget for main irrigation systems.



- 31 -                              ANEX 1
Page 5
Objectives:
3.1 Starting from fiscal year 1988/1989, to introduce an irrigation
service fee (ISF) related to cropping patterns/systems in several
selected pilot scheme areas being taken up for efficient O&M. The
implementation of the pilot scheme will also enable the
establishment and refinement of the necessary administrative and
judicial arrangements as well as institutional aspects, collection
mechanism and level of fees to be collected.
3.2 Based on the results of the pilot scheme, to gradually extend ISE
to all provinces for irrigation systems where efficient O&M has
already been introduced.
Policy 4: Institutional Develooment
Government recognizes the critical importance of effectively carrying
out irrigation O&M, and will implement effective measures and reforms
to strengthen O&M institutions at all levels.  This will be done to
create adequate institutional capacity for improving the performance of
the existing irrigacion infrastructure and efficient utilization of
increased O&M allocations, in order to continue to provide adequate
irrigation service and reliable water supplies to farmers.
ObJectives:
4.1 To strengthen and where necessary to restructure the
organizational set-up of Provincial Irrigation Services (PRIS)
dealing with O&M of irrigation systems, down co Ranting Dinas for
uniformity, efficiency and effectiveness.
4.2 To clarify the roles and responsibilities of institutions dealing
with O&M by the end of fiscal year 1988/89. This would include
the redefinition of roles of DGWRD and PRIS in planning,
organization, directing and controlling O&M activities, and
defining the organizational structure and staffing needs at
various levels.
4.3 To design and implement a manpower development and training
program for provincial O&M staff and other agencies' staff at
various levels involved in implementing O&M policies and programs.
It is anticipated that this activity will be implemented by the
end of fiscal year 1989/90.
4.4 To strengthen the function of PRIS with regard to the management
of 06M through improved personnel management, and the development
of appropriate management information systems (MIS) and monitoring
and evaluation (M&EY systems.
4.5  To further develop and execute an integrated policy for the
functioning and strengthening of WUAs following guidelines
established in INPRES No. 2/1984, and functioning of Irrigation
Committees in line with PP. No. 23/1982.



- 32                                 ANNEX 1
Page 6
Policy 5: Budgeting and Programming for O&Mi
Government will simplify and rationalize the present budget mechanisms
for O&M funding by reducing the number of funding channels and
improving O&M budget planning administration.
Objectives:
5.1  To introduce improved systems and procedures for O&M programming,
monitoring and budget planning, by simplifying the present system
of allocations through both INPRES DATI I and DGWRD development
budget, changing to a needs-based system of allocation of O&M
funds.
5.2  To establish sound criteria and procedures for allocation and
monitoring of funds to meet the actual needs for O&M of each
irrigation system, starting at each Ranting Dinas level.
Policy 6: Rationalization of Investment Expenditures
Government will rationalize expenditure programs in the irrigation
subsector, and formulate and implement a more realistic irrigation
investment strategy for Repelita V.
Objectives:
6.1  To improve project selection criteria to be used and review the
technical and economic viability, in the assessment of the tocal
existing and proposed irrigation investment programs, with a view
to rationalize investments.
6.2  To improve the formulation of priorities for irrigation
investments and finalize preparation of a more realistic irriga-
tion subsector strategy and investment program for Repelita V by
the end of fiscal year 1988/89, taking into account the likely
availability of funds from different sources as well as
implementation capacity.



DETAILED ACTION PLAN AND STATUS ON COMPLETION AT JULY 31, 1992
IMIGATYIS   SuSlTN      t      JET - PCULCI5. OJELTr'                  AND DTAILD  ACTION PLN  (AsTATUS Oli PIOJECT COAPtE11004 JULY 31 1991
rot ICY 1  FWbhGZ OF OP'EIIATlION11 MIOAtrTEIlANCE                                                                                    _________________Ol_____________Pe_________________
Pre1ty 34a                   Ud .-I.a eo1s.b1,l                       AcOon 1 moo"od             I'll                               Keyr sl500            T1I-4ab1          U .340o1  Indl1-.ols          Slabus
t {|)                              p}                   - -       -                          -I                                     ( is)                (                      (1)                    (a)
(SI FouOo,gsp.ov1o   6             I   6.1 E."SOIllOdk4OdO&40l    1.1.1  Ma*IU.en 1911 1W.1 Of D            APPEtIAS                  Plco1,. =       W OM             1e400ag                0    aa               GOIAOocaishIoe..hslOMM):   )
ooa11.ogol  1w.os.  `W             as  Oos.6,  canune8                 001.4 ,11dll    WM           Is 101,5  .11, 1.11%9       I.dil.1,  181,1445180106                     .....0                            96/81: 39 96 bRa/S It -h
Okibfdo06   6, B..                 oC16h al a t4 llrIe    I.n-1         lwa .6 g ...oWm Con-          .UOF                                                         99rs0                                          V9: 43 hs OAF/S It  h0
-ilk. 10.6"low n0.",               h51one ,.01  "aCIla news             k06.   whlo,hos k0.                                                                        9091                                         S86/604 0 90 bno0S 40 hfia
of h.I1aelo  sysieo.s.             1w .0iuk1         r OtM.               /PAlS           I e_ -I and  mG                                                                                                                     A
dOOOlOp-ohl b.OOM 0111.d                                                                                                                 80/91:41 2IbAlpts 520,1-ha
aIg 1961168 .d  h*                                                                                                                                                         )     / a
eW81: 39 99 A3bRS 10 nira         )
W%/,9 42*9 hflp/s 19 "hA          )
0Nt9 44 72 bPVS 40 -ha
690545Ss I;0/9.4011h.1
90C91: (lobs Co.'1J01od           )
1.1.2  Ihc'oas. pho l.ol of 0611     DAPPENAS                  P7DAl  ns    d Io.d 1. OM          91/90    Oodg.la1y aS1o3.1,ns 1,d            GOI Allocoilbn (IocIom,mal 06r.1
lkondoiG k.m  hI .a9lonSl    UU1A. PAtM                   kcndbng 01 bdOQola4y            9/91    loloasos.                              8/0V9: 0 blWi7C62.O0 ha
cmicg1, hp.o1 1,b  oa         IAOF                                                                                                       89abcons  66/90: 1I64 b"P/960.000 ha
&-do l6.1180.so bok.9                                                                                                                    90/91: 3.96 bIII10.2S7 000 ha
Islas IN we..so 0. 1lh                                                                                                                   F -0Y &CC-01oIShod
060c40 O&M Is p7e1sf5-
Ik.01V Imadmo.d.
(11) 11san_, . 04 of  1            1.2 Ct 6142    .UA' b    ._.o-W s- 1.2.1  b."s ory nsd   crbno4    0f  UAPW. 1141A.               T7b                    on 9                Ago.d TOR 1011                       Don
163  so Wino.Us)                   6/IWo 10' O0. a40ndw _                      .19111    075151<SO     MOA                        C.onIb   S.rno.s                OiS    Aoponlo,nlolCoznswoans                0 95;S
A.0oolallo.so (WUAo)     ~6/SOoll y   ing0,00 less0            8,Il000040001.6/9, 31.677 ha                                                                                                                                                )      b
bilagln SW ha    0 W 1A53 Tw-                                                                                                                                                 9,90: 39 869 ha                           _
,t4 l00 bhoa WUAes 16..-                                                                                                                                                      90191n 59.809 hi)
0on0s s      gabIon" oh
ISO h h   OWUA s W01".
AEfELFIA V.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
1.22  Ini.l.hrom special .0.h-       MPW. A1A0                                                   12/e9    -m -sisou a nloeoubio.e T0...,   - SIgno-d  91 tli, as
I n.M. h1  so.Klod nsly.os    I 1IA                                                       0OV90       -  --Govo 1.,c.. I. dololmIn      - SK G-obno,  , W. Java. C. Jan.
-o ilm Mass, as a514d S0lu 01 5d al0 S510401 4, 1n    a                                                                                     JIvO .YOdora   ' Vt Emab o
b.oan UPW,Ul4 IA 000P . P-406   Ol.pal0 10 ca,Y 001                                                                                       S Sla..-0I V/I151s'.90
Go.o.nnoms.                                                                                         1.,nov.
. SodOCI 1 ,93 90                                        0I                                                                                    2 20011  )//66    S851vmo and 5o 34  66/89Z    18669 ha  C
at 04as3 20-400 ha,                                     14 *00 "a    )9/90                                                             90/91: 49.722 ha
b Ca..C    o 0 p4 ip410 1ah-.                                                             0490    SpoCl 1.1116niand1,0 _P0 U9/90   9009 1: SM on 34.036 ha co.plmId
-a64   nhks on 5.101,0                                                                            COmpIl1od
sysigins.
c. TWaO VUA  .s wl                                       lho;ISIo4ljo.'                   02/90    NO. OfVrUA'S b11008 land             6tVO9:   0
co.'..l  0001013                                                                                  14s10s1               .o              9/90   251
90,91:  25?
d. T    wsnov.. 54010 symsS                                         k-491.o  51S14-1 and           II0 d0 WUA'S ,sY1-m  and             C. J...          6r 45101.5.    390 10
<    h50. h.                                           .m0             h7f 1,111404710 V1 W  IJAS  sv     * --. 10 D.                 W Jan:           123 sy0.5.. 11.610 h.
1' 00  I:                       01/90    I-01,50-10                           E. J.0:a:         33 5y14.1.9021ha
0 .O00 h        /a              3090                                          Eo g.a.sa :.    5 5         .2.I251O ha
S. SolasosI:     30 43.1.s.  6O"110
0/ S-,l,a:  is, sysiOms.  12.195 ha
.ol. l           TuIns.  35.05110 h,
1.2.3   "Ishiging431II1sbi  01A0A    I.rA 1.10MA                Planis. ..d--.    "I 09rO    S-I1  alias5 113.301d.                            ChIan3ak (-441 ha)lalKib. Ku.Ign3.
of kIIgl0on -h se1 c.         IAMIA                      Ion          /d                         La.oo 450iaIons, ol                  (w. Ja- h.& O." wined ch,g4r
1.0o5001Sooo Ilaoo On                                    ISMOh.                                    WUA'S .slab1hshe1                     0, X. . 52Dd   hua) 1Kab S11k       
2 pslr. ustat                                                                                                                           fr/. SunFa(. 1  hOboon h  nd ov- ..o..
Sysio,n P3A5 I,a- bil-  .,nab.lhoJ               §0
1.2.4   Nl_0.  _0   "al..6. pil II tm. 1.10A                    S-* 51K       11 P n4 -. M111    00        lsWooP,op-'o    oallo n                Gwflo'oSOSIono,alo, 2 pol 
pib        00 f   W f60  *,Id.                                                                              ..... . IA  *Jl,(1,5 w   004n40 30  1,1d ,,1,In 1444unas b0lo6   ip6Inomg p107. to I,
rsoF_ I. t       n                                                                                                                 lu- 01. 6Insovg srsna   uoornO,a 5111 5150h1   01o,o.oSoh-.s
I.,i~~~~0io. ~ 0p0  5, 1890                              1,0004  >S III                                                   1,501   _  I/O    sllw 11010. le SVUA w d80. IS/P '
lp/_ .    t4h   *)I.oations   i bIlion pli Si          e tor-r _o .  .illion he in * Y.J.,
16  Arao.   rI 1.
A, -."   p ,



IRWATION SUOSECTOR PPOJECT - POLU4ES. OBJECTIVES and OETAILEO ACTION PLAN (OAP)                                                                                                                                 STATUS ON PROJECT COMfPLETICN JUL Y 31 '22l
POLICY 2: COST RECOVERY FOR IRRIGATION OU                                                                                                                                                                       Page I of I        PDIC  2
Pollcy  '.a                  mdumr-lufm obSofl                         ACOon pIOPOSed              By                             K.y slops            Tnkatabi         Uonhilmo hnlcaiws             Sias
(1)      ~(2)                                                   (3)                    (4)                               15)                 /0)                   IT)                     (a)
(aJ) Hnecj4siewUlinA1- 1         Zl EI"abashIlnldecAco n             l    b 00np1415n8/          8         U.IOF. Li.iA            RA.s*POL  aa-n-s                 -       R.nu`U HalIPeslaesa)
..48y tlaIcs au costs            (on.ry sy108. to hC8808              9      8  l     l Cd oIPw                                                                                                              ,87u 8021tAh.d)
08014 MAl 81 a  wgaht            kal W5848808                         b.dons I/,agO bmak8i014,5.                                                                                                            87,8    i ODa.al.1              /a
ol8-                             rUdmlnaoh Pas ktan e.106180                                                                                                                                                swat. 8b5 O L49 (baa8a03d
1..aS.                                                                                                                                                                     I91.6 888 0040 ~S I
90081: llf~II   R(./,)
2 2Ep;al5 .eonuSofn               22.   08,        a pi"  Chn                M/OF                 d oaoclo    4 /aaI/a°O//nl      01188    A .po.1 Indicl. 1the                co,/Ipllad. Jun isSI
5PEOA 1C U... n*poll                (5000 h.) .1 U-/.y and                                    08 -la1/ .anid-n/.c 6l/o                .onP8ld pagcnd./8 as8
sy                                  Mapping m  0 land l.lsallof.                             t Pi-is. b-und-a/a  Aan                  mapp/og.
cah(In^ &-au M15, 
oal WlandO 1.asoSmn
atdolatl.0 -a,a.
Z22  IA1O8 IW4W6 pAI,I1- C8                EiOF                 IAoplaQ ,.C/aSI/l/O1            678/8    A-48     Ico.pl    .4/             8520:4 00f000 h.a O0/81/aclw. an/
Of Poe 10'/4011 18'Ia"S.lca-                             And -ass s-nmnn o 41 I0b0       10          /. nal l n//.ar                 co.nplubd by Maich Jl 1295.
lion and lala*00/84ne ofa                                40~  Io 11      yro             210        oa.5 each yeu.yMlh31191
kNlgaIInn  SMs In kIldosla,                              w1es by 19tV90.
_o-U."l npl 08/anid            02190    Repoll                              Caasub5/an     p     onld
ItKdA$O,l "oWNA1,alIO/l 18                                                  O1 14A/CI 1290
ca/a (a/I IbRO I0918/ld 80./
Decid On w  a0-nc 'O cAy 0,4    05190    Dacls/IO                             bl't 08 ca/lI r0 olga. / mapp 1/
IluAl  -napc/1ac/Ins/fl                                                     bul ljwUal UcajI/ux*q .al/o/
by t'88
Z2.3  ItnptOne lu admintst,In              MOF                  Apen / U   PI.   aNIB04/8    AOnsIws a4pPU,,u0.                              0/eDECO Cwnskly aa.aaswa PUB 00/n
trVasagl CMInp.ILAI.uo  And                              on- la/l lu                                                                  Feb  9AS  (kgW. 80 -ash
be/la plaadallu,.                                                                                                                       (1)81400.818 and saO-*y10g
l2) IVI1 ^W IIAssUKa uo  EAM
(2) So/Ml lal *wa/ason and
(4) lolal la COlleclson -nd
(0) (081.48/o svslOan.aa-AO/OaI/8
Task Ca.4lWpalg A/Id ,n*on  h-n ba.a
2 24   Basson and I/n0/a'en Ranlg          "OF                  T 1.al/g0/ gnI                  0       /ao.n,n/ 0 ll.i.a/n  asnoog         14n .compenane -a. Pon/po/. Do/an-
ploAa.s lSW PUB Ilall amI                                175 .-s.s10 and                82/90   AnIaac1 vaa".                        080881,Oalal0/n
l0I1fllCla~~~~~~~~~i.  g.0.l,n.c/805 ~~~~~~~~~~~~P0U 0 nIwoIma,%M l'.antng lasnea-a'/
jIs IWoI PM (LiaUU U..) n.II.nt.d in b)ilIo Roi.ih in. a ytt
>4
I'tQ
0 '3
PQX 



MIleGATION SUtSECTOFI PROJECr - POLICES. OBAECTtVES a" DETAILED ACtON PLAN (OAF)                                                                                                                                   STATUS 014 PROJECT COMPL.ETII AlV w1 11
POLICY 3: IRRGATItO SERVICE FEES
FaghhI d I          PohPo
Po"                          Madloge-loI  obWcAl                      Actlon pbop.sd             By                                Key. 1ps             r6mabl            AM110.1Ing 10alws            SaMoa
(I)                                m                                                        (0) 01S)                                                   co)                   (7)                     *
(a) 0Db ,aew y yOl3&'11                                              11.1 S1    Glowt PM  mea. In         MHIA. IAPW                 Agb.l so    ". 1. in.             Dn
00s1s Iom, kaga4b11os ban-         s i   do  toe ltt O tM 10011ng       South S0WA4  aM J&sd  lo)      MOA, I tOF               kaww0. m    1 an oSF                      ou01 1010w
ItI.,10es Uaeogh tlsIg-            h 5.1000401141004t   .-              40119." n &et InVdulon ots aol 010.120 1o0 kadif0
lon Sl0 I*  ,..                    Wade  IN  ttkele t0.1 t. kd attn stce tI. on                                                  a       054.
g.a.laly emA4, the   d               d                                  ao It. .lb 0t0l1 -2                                                                                                                                     to a  4I to d    am  t
kw qo ewo_mlkvndo osub-                                                 125.0C00/a.    /a                                                    QS                    0110 A,enan              s.tn 21 J                         (. ye41Dt
&&s atS  tnaltr ell                                                                                                              C-  soams to lMu01                                                            schuok,1) f,, (4) wits,k. Deth4 F 
bM -   Ina may n   o  o                                                                                                          ilw   ao aM s.. Ih She                                                        el eld la 4 K40.1 -     WnS to
110101fi1 100 el1&M 1.014004                                                                                                     101p0bh ..,.allon  1IS. f                                                    h,,41:loa ad tSf. By J1IVt 1991
bita 05 bn  i l-a 4f wa bod.ed in S.6  be 'Osoggs)
11 2  t)0K040 ms aeppad tn                                     lngx0lws u   o cn0    *d .         ItW8   SK u1id                              SK MUentl S63 1h ud S ficlS
1  W   h  c 1 * 1 1 0 1 0 1 .   0 10 9 -                0 0 1 1 0 1 9 0 1 1 0 0 1 2 1    1 I / S JC ao                               E  A A l l O n M5 a o 4 lI     8   3 0   s 4 d   I I   l a w S t   L n
54.1*81*4100001.. MId ~~~~~-               colluerskS Aahc..a                511018  SICGeune.r                         SIC O.n,wr Iooed on Woal. ceaui and.0
54*C1 1101111 104 P fle0 -_.o* ocat gooobno.mu.                                                                                         Ea01 lena led SeaM. S. .naaL
lien Meckae.10m, Foeteoial
P01in0111  L                                                                        121*   SK( Bapal                            AN SIC 0*a1 bane begen Iaaood.
adlde me_one  -a,L
_WL
11.3                                                                                              _30              010agesIn                 PO. OCllen  ce0,lmd ha IAbalo.
aml                             cnk.IO.  01M4  p401 14aL                     S.baeel. beG&f4L* MId SokoA.acqe (ii.a
b0n0   M"1 of C2h.7f4_. ha
1.coec"lnn  An 514.00 Sap  a  t. wa..a
00019101140*00.10 M") 01 12.04III).
11.4                                                            P..o. Sa).. 10 ..Ill.            01nos0  Aped amihisuui00 a.,j               PUns lo Enslooa    nd s1an of KII"-
of 100 10 el.., -AS.         K      I        Ilal M41 a   10                 kW bS1P- 2 Initiated LI AP, $199
.01-05100100,1lo Olwme"
12 t;acsallykageaedl,kd-         1Z I  bet  m4 e lenhimn ual-          L&HALAPW                  3:0ace &,.as loln.1 m             1290  A6a4,hlaCll.                          I.ldoo elAlS d IF o n   a  1
Ie. wive ze,.   Me 1a   d           MO bkm 1601.1  .le            U a  MOA. MOF                                               0    0                                       l001000alp a          a      . D al
glaed aOs i 4am pIn_-               oo5'.I4 II41I ba y*
lecal an  onsec ily no- CIss.g *y. Pk                                                                                                                                                     S
4000 C.w,al WA P,010~1*
Gem wka nan o SW             3.22                                                                                  ofpanoI I c0n:lon 0  1s1100   CodaIIo of1 cMapD.  i      0  -n 41.131 Il op4am "M a,1", .
32.3                                                           E..w 1an0a101o0 -,s1             1991192 O..0d1                              Idol 1p*        (-Ill Saks plKace  aw ISA-2)    O
brsSk  Ctoo                                        d e0 0b                                                                tisiCX.   5I
j/   Tb. tara.6  we  ,.~I         tiseo .b.1    000     , I. ag.'een.t.9 OBS fI. Sm    1 



WPdA1Wl   SUBSECTOR PROJECT- POUCES. OBJECIVSsm 05 DETAILED ACI     PLAN (0AP                                                                                                                              STATUS 0N P.ECT OMPLION ACETY Jla'Iil
POLCY 4: INSITUTIOrOAL DEVELOPUENT                                                                                                                                                                         Paoge I o            Poky 4
Podl1 was                     110*04-1w. 09009                        ACIO p      eO0            By                               Kaio .ps              Tk2.1         lkololbo ihicudois aaS,,
4 I                                 (2)                                 {J_                  (4                                   (5)                 (6)                (7)                 (a)
5.40. p40.0 .401A4.6110-       4.1  0 .ollwag of                 4*1.1  C...y *A 04 Is1o2i.O. I       IAPW. MNA.                 P..p... 104 14 .Ppo              018   Cmxosff ippoklso.             W$US.41,101 S..IUoboM0 W.01 as
lias &Ian           I 1001-         kub-oou D.0olI                                                    LMENPAt, AoA               c,'OOshams                                u.I010y 0990,14.4 NOn. 18 us04
p.*. g;o0 of k*gO~o                 0101b0d-s4,01G6900400   PAlS        cla/ip .0181 amd 11                                                                                                             04o4010000Co,4d100 10
a.os..,w   044 1-            (044Oak9004.0100. WtA               .0.41010d004i.4"00110O1..                                                                                                       0.00440.41 .2041009*114W1E
4.z.2                                          4~~ - e "ow .~  CO  n4 1l.Ay.                                           APPED4AS. W0,01hO  201. 0044.0014
awalims.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~-   a:>-
1ss* nuWss Aa-o.*                                                                      1       C
*    4.1.J  f2      e                                                C-4 MHA aAKNPA .OF  IPoA    OWNa R"*aFeia onwae                  by   Aspen         Ulo ab-A i kn o5 Ds
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     h_  A_G CoWS                                         r        LA- scao v..a.               GalCalg . UNDOA    ISunl OrwlUT 
N So.hag.0. S.S.oasalw aw S4. Sda..ol
11 I.e abwolol*.. 9100 IN. P.Poss, o
lbi,0 -aiksha0o  as L.c.0a 10 0.2                           L
9044*00of She am" b" t d".10o
4.1.3  UPP010.0 o 11004e41dl1010                              Ag.o-     by                      OVI.,III. I2101  Imwoep  SKW 10oo.cono.  Fao--p action g! owy 00.0.4;
4.12                         {z"a_|zw.w-l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a" °swse S"Slle                                               ImilinSsuso"
l0(4040144    5un1 ISP-4.'ISP  c      ^
4.2 8.oqpbm.gib... 099 2         4.11  Formsluaoe mgokdalnj           UPW. OhM                   044-e1. e..osg 0,_c 0-            0/M   Agohi -" a,g11101w100          No. wasatrall01 (tuncu-c   Uwe
S" of PFtS ag a Ifte                0UK-P* 2044OM I*Quhrnm.wo    ME ANPAO                    Waal 101 -.P.                            I0o0,041440.,                 00904060 00(0100 t0o p019010. 0.4
dead" .204010.of eilga-                                           MOA                                                                                               1,21.9& 044 C.e.o (bya) nag usam, A9904in
1101 sy914                                                                                                                                                      I  p'll.e0 10 7 towices,
4 Z2  0.50u0014 P100010/lI 10.01     PPW9. PO                   1441" 091.414- P.04*0101         01/90  210-4 PralS 0,001110lso       A Sg9o0146 00100 P01910aA 0441l10
am4 oblijo amo.0*121.m,       PL                        L           A101 .'0   I442..$0          .041440000 (PE40A).           0.100010.in W.C.E.Jao.4 II S.,o.lo..
P.ooqnooo Lepslag..o.w~a.A a.S~ SoOa.... Wool S.-m..e  and
S. S..ousa Io 0404.40 Ip0004144,
4.2.3  F.Ifll add2.aM 1409249g      UAPW  MHA                   P-0. a040    ,a 14.13111114      04190  SIAll 10 11104                1,0401040 of1 2004la10.1.01  Sob 0.400
*4l9hiblegINN A4 d0.00        BAKH. MAOP                  0.0,.4  so. 1.460-09           0--la                                 PolgO     odgia.0*1 .11    W,C.E Ja... oily.
a"            WAS 141141110                              fubS pOd.1-/.0 to,020-                                                N S-stwa s0,d 1 ITrT oon.,n  abo.A
ObIAld P040a.40000,                                     0401k 01240. 01021.J09                                                  I3W Pos001has1beige0119104.
01.,-0,0941014044 &-               Po40, 001-4100amo44004s10                                A044.44(01,0S0141, to p0          02488  Cana44014  099010.04.         WIN8
2o*oP-swax 2, 042O4L 04110am PAIS 2*011s.                                                p...,.4004.10440o10s.                                                 1,010n0 I.I1.M. P114.0004141
Mae M2 04 20.0.0.                                                                                                                                                  101A.90  190.
4.12                                                            0904lc44040OS                    0/0I..10410  11-0020.0.90100?rma 0021.
*0.90 .0410V4p41..                                                1-0M r.-4.0se 04.04,4  00004140014AA
1.t*1990.44 S...oy PAFIS (lISSP) (0.*W04.L
4.13  AOalb000000*Oft oed            MPW. &M,                   P0090.o 111111-.9  10..la        O9/     Aa..0000fi00000C1.AW.        C-o.04ll0.
MS la 90000A09 04400900-    "O0A'
sasmm00, 01 0804.
OQ0



IqaRGATIOa SUBSECTOR PROJECT - POLICIES. O&JECTIVES *na1 DETAILED ACflON PUAN (GAP)                                                                                                                             STATUS ON PPAOfCT COGIPLETION JULY 31  S99
.PODICY 4  INSTJTl4T14AL DEVELOPIAE14T
POo.0S,.,..                    is,44,-Im d40t400j.C44                   M4.Aaenopos.d              By                                 Kor sleps            To-n.aW         W moo   obntcaKlos        54..s.,
41)              (2)                                  ~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~                                           ~        ~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~(34  (4)  42  46)  0)  (a)
4 3 4  T,.I.4n    . la sib3.0 e00,W  MlPW   IIA. Mt InAr4. meo                     an. md         494ga40  9404 of04444 MA 1d               IalTba4
-00.84 0d4lo... 14001 S044d   LIDA                        *.a4..a.. 9s90                                                          EM. 499949
S1444. &.d4 100 sla04 (.14a MAU25
I440 Ma"S.. 2)5 OlE 4400                                                                                                          BWT .v          32
04144403. 0048844014444004  BODP                                                                                                  S*weoa           *4
000000444 by 498944 090.x                                                                                                                          2
school lftiaX _el Badt                                                                                                          IVe~             72_   nv ii
TPO* 0a Aodh . *20 4lonhci                                                                                                        lom."I           "I8 EOM4ICS31)
((0.4450444444 0*9 1020 $001401,                                               CLO6, Iwe.    32*7 t                                                         OU CS2)
1_taw           14 
4d4404 41-       4I 
Loo0o4n Imat   114o    fw-h-m
V46fP AM ACoo Giftp boag Co404ed la
fGoC  A) 4.000(GOeup B).            miSao400 4041419.                                       498
00. GOPC) 004430                                                                                                            14414000       lOB        412          -        24
h51uocloas                                                                                                                        hsloucp A         d liii   *1                 3.04
G.O.p U       2.003    23210           -      5.202
Gmoasp C      3.446     Cps9                  9.524
Taal          nu                              I m 2
m4WWwWo U494E4048,44. Rso.ss -w
cGw0m6J In  A;o  f4 sep41al cedi*1   in
4 3 S  Sl..0g4..g 0n  a.0l S0 -                                   Pl       of 04 4d.n4             0UeS  P.Chas% oloQ.a.  .Qup-    Comopleld
.I p040400 4104,041 uall4                                o..po.ao. ..,a... .IAnd                    moa,.
43.1 6                                                           104g4444l g 04 AV                 05189  N9 me44. ofa. e0 540.          C400p404d a d Of o CdCok  4004,pmW
4 8|pzt~~~ p*tsosnAl manav -    * * I  Dzopplsenm I manao  ocveD   tOFl aS ton uk A                                                U4bl44I 9490444
44                                440 44    0-0ppos-W.-age. 504440oaTOR 444                                                           D 040c  A0 ..   TOFL                  Naf 4018 pbOpedtobbe c04 4a4 .   wo e, DIP
-**2nL                               Wv,no40to 4  PRMs           Apps.oi Co.oanas                  Du la
4 4 2                                00 WAG                     Css,0o.  -o n4yA                   06/89  9440.9004044490000
P5415                      a0m PI.05C0fl-1-36441                     40000004W004S4 1 44    w WWHO.
4423                                 0v4O... 1m14.o.. 000. 005n                                    o0350  E.       . ." p1i 444n AAh        0*- ,44.aA-  Sy"Uo. mi1c-
PAJI                       404..414o.44s44 14140.145.  m     4.0.445s  .  P..  nS 0NuPl  Us k  o 9 40   oi4  u    n0MI 2 .; D om PnoO 44 04494w 0 A0 4a 44-A
be0           la44044o  I44 499 V9 (4.544  by coaos..aet The ba-.,o  404
*42
S"hiuS 0  - O-WAdOrAlilIN
Ln



5AA56ATION SUtSECTOR PROJECT - tlOL CS. OOJECTINES Vnd DEtAILED ACTION ItAN PDAM                                                                                                                      STATUS tX FfmCAECr CoSItETiON JUEY 32 '(8
PaM(CY*   sS4NSTTUTMONAI OEVELOPtENT
ama                         Masssasi U;l CdqKli                     ACid,                     D10103                                                                                     Pill T3s s3h -,  4  5                   _
--!)                               (2)                                 (26                 (4)                                 IS)                 (6                  7                  (6
koi-odian wsasi  LUS         4 4.4  Cav WA viy an (5  and S       OW WAERO                 Etanes   ang gasp an             Don.  ABSO TON.                     CowsIhsed
ad USE syginms.                     UISE ned$ IN 0 4  PAs  S    PF5S                      Pe(sa   IOA.
5..4                                                 Appoin  C.Anao Rss               0416   Cb5a9IN5S app.N4d             66
4.4.1                              tXivWAD                   A.a524 and pIega..              06u6   Finl,spon t  4 j_ Kan,-       Task camIpm
4A.S                      OGWRO~~PtB                A^M,§4                                  sYU.St DtW                   DV"       C      tT      1
PR'S                     M..a.na..                                 -~s a--psa tg COGwA.  (US (hacmowwlmis04'
amd PAIS.                   664  c&060 k1 BTAL. ma DOAS.31
446                                                          6oos.sns (uS an UAsE syS-        .29   (.psn   d (US an UlSE  I      (US Sysm., dAnm     nd So     FCo:
11UL                             -ans PPS6       .                   an  Ma   ci          I.        I L  Ett..
heON-madsl"M 1111111111,11. M" on0
aUaO1bliie (S I a6dMO PWAmc*.
yn mas -&Ka0ttas4 is ea alwaliNa
8.04  ned sm 5       soetO
saodsssitis *MJA             4e4.1  0I4k1 A3kw0 W An 5-    &tPW. (USA                     EaYbbM ACW.5G ps and             aim   Agmand WaN5.                  A04s &&,.M _ad       d  Is laS
koiwas 4of at ela  (0        MOA                      (4054 to -A6W' ..v                                                    pf                0 p444*
enduing; VwAMI
4.4 A                                                        CA4.  ul05 .ak.a50s              ODU"   _NinO  04 WUAS aVale.  G6004l S..,,  .0ao0 Od %UA5L 0.
8WVi coawad 286JA1.
4 4.S  SI,.qwn WIligMln            MPW. (IA                 E54*4  vakwo goap 54              12167  Ag*W cwd,:b an               DOn.
C.neIn 45Cs} 5ad h'n IN.    5UO5                       s.. -66..a WUJIP su,m.-                 cosdsnaum s        -dlobAa
sOanK com a-ad Pao-                                   hg pogans (In IBAD
wul. Jan n am Kca-                                    ba4
enaan _Ns u1a.a  6pp_0-
4 4A *0                                                      5nac4 agn1   tabO* 5s4    hi 5ws                                     AUn G-map ssaMMh C4           i. 
pingia.. -45 44 40              ( 30 Ka~mams a4    a                 pso~s. 2 aw,a         a   (2
ca0as Eaia AODM                                                      alo. *  Il .oo laws. "s. _&&) *aSao
calMda.      4c_5 .                                                  ea-owes. Ine M WmA; NW _.n"
sags Tv.i Mam *- PK
4 4.11 Sngmian I loaU 200          mPW. SiA                  (    .5  sokaVOWsp la            I      AgMP_s                       C-Kt
".51'g WUAs. 444 t D&'8ba54    &405                   W 5 s.%.ng am4 na-
n. d 's as,sqsid. in a                                     pow a s.
*I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4 4.52                                                       knsesas s.ssso and              s6806,  Nasso.i 4 WVUA%"at.*5*sn    VAJASIan.U4snb.O  sia.504
5, Jan. Ih6s.
Z0



IRRIGATION SUBSfCTOR PROJECT - POlIOE S. OBJECnVES amd DETAILED ACTION PLAN (OAP)                                                                                                                           STATUS ON PROJECT COLfPI,ET"ON JtiLY31  1991
POLICY S  BUDGETING & PROGRAUMMING FOR O&M                                                                                                                                                                  Pal  I d 2          Pdstr 5
PoloY 11e                     AAdl.um-n m. 0bl.Nos                      Aciln p10pso5d             By                             K.sy,.os          Tm..as            Uoasha tnaalgls           SIal.a
(I)                                 (21                                  (3)                   13)                               is)                  (4)                 (7                 (I
(a) Saplw.aellon and 1alo01-        S.1 lnl.odace 4ovbd snsl..n       5 1. 1   P,*oa, eImiriOod buoQel -     BAPPENAS                 Eathinsh  loskg  loaop          0h/if    Agled lecomm n4OaIotn         Wwokw  Gow od4 as t.Ob0shad in
otalllnal a)  .anlslslS 10.         and PIoCd.1g S01 OM PI-               Ino Alla00Mn els and           tAHA tJOF                 aned o       {                                                       kla,h U 1. and l9lagalld l s OdaIIo.
OLIJ lund mlg. puogr-mnnQ            oramn ano mon'oloin *nd              acwonIs of 0,tA aImed a3         MP'V                    dalMoos                                                              Suam. tung  as .de in Ih. o,lals
and b1,9l               plannrgg    bodel plannling Cnagng                rallonallaixg 8 0                                                                                                             of Jd 0.U tuneing go. dt EOIA  has  C.l0lg
10 alneeds-Dlsd °sylen, 0            channlt, 0o bIndIno 0p*-                                                                                                      k.AnOsn  o APSNII and .00-EO I .101, Iilo APMO
all ons.                             OdliUn 16leasas o0 hnds.                                                                                                      SIn-od aag.a0th        V t we   lo De
and conlo,ming IO necds-                                                                                                     0btt        f ECU Wall Iundng Ae
based allacallons.                                                                                                            Ihr Baikds 6nOulDlo. espi," and
hs..anOfg 6-y. ns5kB 10 APaO. hItS isn
ISF Is hot Yroe,r ldn ad.u fo. aeas
000. ISF Is 'sno lhtosd. aoaegnwr
has 10- lO16C1Id on slhin Iths COM,1CIOd
h04 mf Io s  ogwal OLzIA kUdwmO cyci
5 1.2   Ilnplemrr. t1  syslen  and    OAPPEINAS                 Pl`yals 0O-01 lo O tA         1900,89   Applical,on,d ofad-          As abOn  1,10111.d6sl.gp0.                              C
placedla. In OSM P1091-   MIIA. AOF                     balsa ano .nsim Ptllfod       onnaas    lid W.o  du6.                 p ..dg slob   I tlnwcgd dholl  SSP-
Min.and am     9l planning  A. MPWN                     PlCIu.InS.
52 E- abtb 1O"n cdrll.,I.         $ 2.1   Clal-siaon 01 Ot. no.w.       0G65RD                   Cmnll/ I.n..n..lsyO  Wlll-      09/0?    AQ, d ..p and hA n   lon.    -eimnoiuy .0.pias  to 330 1l 01a
And p.oedu.a I                       basd on d.IK OJtA and                                    0-on sysle-l I. .111-                                                10Ci0 ol152 D13.AMapsa U  1,
allocalon. uaillaaI,   and           ohlald Cos/s lo. nch                                     I.nM OVSA on I1 14ail                                                tot I  3nr a. O 2. Of sDi dala beonC
gMon oloOao land. Igeto I.r          Illallon 50s11m                                          250D00a lby m.d -193/                                                 Calv.4,1id W 240 OIL
4clual n.#.d 10 01, ot                                                                                                                                             Tng 352 Dic,h,ona e 111ri *1* d
I.00.s010,ha (s0aagon as101 03/31/Il
0110 #whAsa-ng gaps be..n  Idle
bWliallon ,   esi.           72 522                                                           Cmplonen I-6oo  ol an          09/09    Ag,aed 1aps a1m hL-,awy
aedd/lana1 450.00 ha Dy
md1 19h9.
In om.O..  0 111 sy5le.s  mndal    01/90    Sta SocIon in and nna. I    Thl hwmaol was sll aed to Bank
E0tA  psCIylllm pl,lina1                 o0 Ad" -Magge 6 Oaei 9    W Juin. 900. ThnL hod.ei ia 0nn-1am
OllllIIlnClo  l    .     ,.,I. /a        10. deglas                  In abao220000haSbSu"   .  amdaDcOm
50c00 ha n OEOuA agal 5       we1 Mg la hO
.0110I1001a as Adi4101 Su'* asOsO SSSP-a
S1I0na POils and NUlB$         02/90                                  l.. bean  ied by BanS  Aosn
in MOatch god J.-l.ba *. hId Slaso
1ona.,npla  P-n0se,. ha"i ..s   gOWsso in
1090/Is an uasn2d"naln  lns-.an  0.01 gnn1.00
on 2f0 Dls nd dae' no   .naP p.O;UaPon
5 23                                                          Aflal.s ccSII 5Clu              03/aa    Racon,nno       ak sC ca ou   AN FDU paow-es have PInaod
11.00 024 le   l/e        oll-a'd.   t.s.Sslnits. WM110          HaeoSn-8ad Didgals (NUB.) 101 1019 lam
blaSsnI 1111105 /CCldolo/Ql              sIllng II gach CallIng      Allocabon, atis VA111 cabasg; 0011M we
0u1.1                       P110m-6.110 fi101 o 1MO   as.4lsW   A0MIIe               it0
CDuoi igl5il 0401 o0 00  an  iav a ,
k. 00 Tb. i kx s yaw lalialn OI  *-0
/t *i n * e (Ins5. .S e)               ?0000 h e            9lai2fserraluDuSoa   -   io-117.600, 



AIGAnlON SUBSECTOR PpROJECT - POLICES. OBJECTIES .d  DETAILED ACTION PLAN (DAP)                                                                                                               STATUS ON PPIOJECT COMPLeTiau ILY 31 l"l
POLICY S  BUDGETING & PROGRAMuMNr. FOR OIU
Pe@02 d 2          Pc.icyS
Policy wa6s                 ued.-IOem atjecwes                    ActML pI.posed           By                           Key sliops        TwaIo           Mho.u     I.wh s         Slams
('I                              (2S                                t_                  (4)                            (SI)               t4            (_     n
5.2.4                                                      'l.o'. 4 f6co-Awad 0a aos       MS   PIOelu0a 011 sds 11400d
Calls I. Uc SASly .           -n_ilas  t c q s4 04O Om.
5 3  PIcio,esp0sli5ry          5 S     Nurbw of swaffips PwlCis     UPW                   H1,idosol 15 CDo wspcl        1SA/S9  Bodwc oln Sta )1e            FOW (4) t    cs Ik SCol Kar4aai
Sw S.Amps OL                       haftled O.W pto WawAi                             IC' 3 piqocls na                      Pp001ic0 ON p( q 1as 40Bawb. 0--B                   00 sla.g
aulhlYties.                                         co,lmoncJbod6h 1w &1,w                11110 pml                  400 Iadod    an mOc t 12 SBL Tly (3
B pUCICC.                                                        poWIs hi LmolpsIrn: U.0o-T                             0
Bowoag BI Fan RWo Seiup B) 110.  _
h41ded woh.
I,3
Go



OWIGATM3I SUHSECTOF PAOJECT. P CXIKES. OLJECtIVES alETAI AED ACtION fAM ILAP)                                                                                                                           STATIJS Ol PROJEaT  COaPtETU JuLY 3i'lmi
POICY 5: FRATONALIZATION OF INVESIT)ENT EfIPENomunFeS                                                                                                                                                   Page I of I         Petr S
Paider a.a                  A.dkon-l..m edleeGs                   Aca propeosed             by                            Key Mps             Tkmm             LUolheg kcuWs                Sawu
Ii)                              (2)                               t(1                   (4)                              (SI(6)                                     f7)                   ta
- AgenAAaR&O"    ie.o-        Li bWp piMSOOiIIM               £LI.I  Ca.lyS.i8Oaiwue.I            *APPENAS               Appced cmasams %ft               all"   COUaamd rappu.                     O540
kW_ *.d. P a-i An      e          C*.1      I  lIAM-                epernle.e .Al  an            UPWV                   aou*cd TOR
IMAM ai a   m alloi               bay al liwmelGGimrd pla-           ga er  ldr. uicil I.-
imealue. iAeg  INu                guass. and cade.afle               chdes  deialled feee.u DI
Fkp.ma V.                        peloeas as ..c.awy.                 am etaleu      asalU.d and                          Conyla. IS. Sla.A                07514   Agrud eccursndaaln.               FTWaI Ripen Fab 8. I was
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,O    hWaien Ade                                                                                                        ,
0e-.kaep. mt  b. .ai
PiI.Ov hWegUoied@ I.IAAIG 
aelino-IgL b'asuadla.  Iofi.
w-gbg irAOSSy IAAnlk . plied
PIePaieu. ioom enoia and
"UkVal OrhS.wcr4 wo4h
P,menomg Gilaid be STean high
pwibSiy.
s2 Esiabh hKwas.4 pIGS- s              . t Puepre Galg any In-      OAPPEtIAS                      Ps.Wa I                         P        a..ndl wealera            ikePnlia V p.eg.a  pueseded
ales   himplamAl a mom.e           ean.peaaeby lla end   UPW.MOA                      Sa. b -.ialy Ajean mn l                  ucalaeia  (lGPaaAV                       C    ala
M~~~IGOT ~~~~~~  ee 1948 ~~~~~~pieg..l.                                                            p,gAled.                           la OAM aePWNag. and  ailAliAn
=leea        r V.                  dg asti  schommes. OGam
Rapoba V.                                                                                                                lIes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~allen by GN l.a-a k.Cieaed
WOld4AiAGy h FW regi  V sa6
pokdy I; :45190 owalSd).
*.3 espimeskpftil.I 1                    e1 A  b lnwoma  mads       BAPPENAS               Red.Galz VZa   Lie1p.e Rpuec Is                                           Na-. 5wa   In The abe mpanl.
InI IeeenN4n                    prim1 unSM  I. lel C-                              ed algi. pulel en-eing
rakM  Ceo      W                   kve_LWsheasv                M                       0  acnk JIDw                            oViad
Gchaije leN on-gaa                 SOL,                                               acheomms.
P|..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
plawls.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
tD 



-42                                   ANNEX 3
Page 1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        At appraisal, economic evaluation of the Irrigation Subsector
Project (ISSP) (Loan 2880-IND) was made using economic rates of return (ERR)
for several of the separate project components. Not all components were
assessed because of insufficient data, particularly on the quantification of
benefits. The Project Completion Report (PCR) has re-evaluated the Project
along the same lines as those of the SAR, using all available actual cost
information. Little quantification of the project benefits was available from
project monitoring data and many sources have been used to estimate the
benefits attributable only to the Project. The results of this re-evaluation
should be taken as indicative only.
2.        The analysis has been made using constant 1990/91 rupiahs, with
historical costs being expressed in 1990/91 terms through the use of MUV index
deflators. The conversion factors applied are presented in Table 1 of this
Annex. Financial and economic prices of inputs and outputs are presented in
Tables 2 and 3. Economic prices for traded commodities have been calculated
on the basis of the World Bank Commodity Price Forecasts dated October, 1991.
Conversion factors supplied by the World Bank have been used to derive other
economic values.
Agricultural Impact
3.        The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) (Report No. 681-IND) analyzed
separately the surface irrigation, swamps and groundwater components and a
distinction was made between surface irrigation on Java and outside Java to
account for higher labor costs and lower rice yields outside Java. The PCR
has repeated these analyses. On the basis of limited information to support a
differentiation, and for the purpose of this analysis, the same crop yields
have been applied across the different irrigation systems. The SAR-identified
cropping rotations were used.
4.        Agricultural benefits from the project-supported improvements to
operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation systems and completion of
ongoing projects arise from increased rice and palawija crop yields and higher
cropping intensities on command areas, which are assumed to remain the same.
These benefits result from a more reliable and timely supply of adequate
irrigation water following improved O&M; this permits a shift from rainfed
local variety paddy to irrigated high yielding varieties (HYV) paddy and
annual cropping patterns which include a second paddy crop, mostly HYV,
followed by a palawija crop, rather than the dominant pre-project cropping
patterns of either paddy/palawija/palawija or paddy/palawija/fallow. Benefits
from project Special Maintenance/Efficient Operation & Maintenance (SM/EOM)
are assumed to begin in the year following introduction of EOM.



- 43-                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
-    The SAR estimated that crop production intensification through the
use of HYVs and fertilizer had been adopted on 90Z of the irrigated
area planted with rice in Java prior to the start of the Project.
SAR estimates of with-project crop yields were mostly achieved and
even surpassed. Based on recent crop surveys and production
statistics, the mission has re-estimated the without-project
yields. The SAR and PCR crop yields and increment estimates and
cropping patterns used in the analyses are presented in Table 4.
In estimating incremental crop yields, the PCR has taken into
consideration only the increment attributable to project influence
through improved water delivery. National statistics support that
there has been an overall increase in average crop yields in
Indonesia over the project period and project benefit monitoring
and evaluation (PBME) data support that project yields are slightly
higher than the national averages. The per-hectare crop budgets
used in this analysis are presented in Table 5. On the basis of
similar models and project records, these assume an average of 30X
employed labor.
5.        Analyses in the SAR assumed that cropping intensities in surface
irrigation and swamp schemes would not change through the course of the
Project and that cropping intensities would increase only under ongoing
projects and groundwater schemes. The PCR has re-assessed the project impact
on cropping intensities, taking account of annual PBME and project surveys and
recent technical analyses of irrigated agriculture in Indonesia, as shown
below.
SAR            PCR
Irrigation System                 Z      Z      z       z
With   With   With   With
out           out
SM/EOM                           175    175    190    200
Ongoing Projects                 125    175    160    200
Swamps                           150    150    150    160
Groundwater                      117    285    180    280
6.        Applying SAR cropping pattern assumptions and PCR estimates of
cropping intensity to the areas developed under ISSP, cropped areas with the
Project have been calculated and are presented in Table 6.
Net Farm Incomes From Crops
7.        Net farm incomes from crops under each project component are
estimated to have increased as a direct result of the project activities.
Impacts on farm crop incomes are estimated to be most significant in areas of
ongoing and groundwater projects, reflecting a shift from rainfed to irrigated



- 44-                             ANNEX 3
Page 3
cropping. PCR estimates of current average per-hectare net farm incomes from
crops, with and without the Project, are presented below.
Net farm income from crops&/
Irrigation system                Without         With
Project       Project      Increase
(Rp'000/yr)   (Rp'000/yr)
(Z)
SM/EOM - Java                     1,890          2,093         11
- Outside Java            1,643          1,834         12
Ongoing Projects                  1,483          2,015         36
Swamps                            1,426          1,610         13
Groundwater - Lombok                984          1,659         69
- East               1,070          1,746         63
Java/Sulawesi
Derived from cropping patterns and crop budgets in Tables 4
and 5.
These do not include O&M costs. (Without-project O&M costs
about Rp 17,000/ha. With-project EOM costs Rp 33,000/ha)
Economic Rates of Return
8.        ERR calculations in the SAR were carried out in constant 1987
prices. The PCR has re-evaluated these ERRs in constant 1991 prices over a
project life of 20 years.1 Local costs were converted to economic costs
through the application of the conversion factors shown in Table 1; traded
goods were valued on the basis of border price calculations (Table 3). PCR
calculations of each ERR are presented in Tables 7-10 and are summarized
together with the SAR estimates below.
9.        If, for a scheme with a life of 30 years, rehabilitation every ten
years (costing Rp 2 million per ha) were avoided by doubling annual O&M
expenditure to the optimum annual level of Rp 33,000/ha, the ERR would be over
50z.
1 The projoct I itf was not stated in the SAR.



-45                              ANNEX 3
Page 4
Component                          Appraisa   Estimate at
1         Project
Estimate   Completion
l ______________________________    (Z    ERR)    (Z   ERR)
SM/EOM  - Java                        31           26
- Outside Java               26            29
Swamps                                20           21
Typical Ongoing Project               23           37
Groundwater - Lombok                  23            3
- East Java &            20           12
Sulawesi
Overall Project - Case A              27           29
- Case B/            21           22
Includes costs of institutional strengthening and
technical assistance.
10.       The ERRs from investments in SM/EOM and ongoing projects are
considerable. By investing only a relatively small sum per hectare, the
Project has benefitted from the costs already sunk in these irrigation systems
and ongoing projects. For example, the average project cost of SM on one
hectare of land under surface irrigation on Java was approximately Rp 200,000
(about US$100). In the year following the SM/EOM the net incremental benefit
from the one hectare was estimated to be Rp 203,000, thus giving an immediate
payback of the investment. Without annual EOM, crop yields could be expected
to decline over time as irrigation systems deteriorate. However, the benefits
from EOM through the prevention of a decline in yields have not been included
in the ERR calculations, which assume that without-project yields would remain
at constant levels. If adequate maintenance of the irrigation systems were
not provided each year, the ERRs would fall considerably.
11.       In calculating the ERRs for investments in SM/EOM and ongoing
projects, net incremental benefits have been assumed to derive from only a
proportion of the irrigated areas. The conservative estimates of incremental
crop yields (Table 4) and incomes employed in the crop models (Table 5) have
been used to indicate the average impact of the Project on a farm household.
However, these benefits would not apply in full to all land commanded by an
irrigation scheme, but mainly to the tail-end areas. For SM/EOM on Java, the
incremental benefits have been assumed to accrue to 15Z of the total area and
for both SM/EOM outside Java and for ongoing projects, benefits have been
assumed to accrue co 30Z of the areas developed within the Project. The
analyses of ERRs are sensitive to the assumption of area benefitting from the
Project. For example, if the analysis of SM/EOM was made using 20Z of the
area covered, the ERR would rise from 26Z to 41Z on Java. Similarly, if
benefits from 20Z of the area were used, but only those benefits from yield
increases were applied (excluding benefits due to changes in cropping



-46-                                 ANNEX 3
Page 5
intensity), the resulting ERR would be 12Z.  The results of this sensitivity
indicate that the changes in cropping intensity have had more impact on
project benefits than the changes in crop yields. This analysis is presented
in Table 11.
12.       The Project completed, or partially completed, 26 ongoing
irrigation projects of differing sizes and with diverse construction needs.
Because of this, the ERR for a typical ongoing project has been estimated on
the basis of average costs per hectare developed.
13.       The ERR of 32 for groundwater development on Lombok reflects the
high investment costs incurred (US$4,800/ha) including the high cost of
technical assistance associated with this pilot program. However, this ERR
has been calculated on the basis of unsubstantiated, but conservative,
estimates of incremental benefits, site-specific information not being
available to the PCR mission. Furthermore, whilst all of the costs of
groundwater development have been used in this analysis, it was not confirmed
whether the areas reported to the mission as having been developed included
all potentially irrigable areas, or only those irrigated to date. Because of
procurement difficulties, several schemes have incurred infrastructure costs
(well development), but are yet to irrigate land because of a shortage of
pumping equipment. This ERR analysis is very conservative.
14.       Two calculations of the overall project ERR are presented, as in
the SAR. Case A differs from Case B in that the latter includes the costs of
institutional strengthening and training. At 29Z and 221, both these ERRs
indicate that the Project has been a worthwhile investment.



-47                                     AMNEX 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECrOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
GS-MLTV            Deflator         Exchange Rate 2/
Index 1/                              (Rp to USS)
1987/88             100.00              111.1                1644
1988/89             105.18              105.6                1686
1989/90             106.11              104.7                1770
1990/91             111.10              100.0                1843
Conversion Factors 3/
Civil Works                                      0.85
Equipment                                         0.90
Consultants                                       1.00
Non-traded services                               0.80
General costs                                    0.85
Labour - Java                                     0.80
- Outside Java                             0.90
Source: 1/ World Bank October 1991 - adjusted to Indonesian fiscal year,
April 1 - March 31.
2/ Average annual rate used by DPP.
3/ World Bank office - Jakarta.



- 48-                                     ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECITOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-ND)
Financial and Economic Values
(Farmgate prices expressed in constant 1991 Rupiah.)
Item                             Unit    Financial.   Economic        Economic
Price         Price         Price
(1991)        (1991)        (2000)
- - -- ----Rpurit - -------
INPUTrS
Paddy seed                   kg           400            410 l/        375
Maize seed                   kg           290            230 l/        265
Groundnut seed               kg           900           1,580 l/       910
Soya bean seed               kg           630            650 v         610
Fertilizer
Urea                       kg           250            426           432
TSP                        kg           310            405           475
Ka                         kg           270            359           359
Pesticide                     1        16,000         20,000         25,000
Rodenticide                  kg         4,250           5,313         6,641
Labour - Java               day         2,500           2,000         2,500
- Outside Java       day         3,000          2,700          3,375
Oxen/animal traction        day         6,000           6,000         6,500
OU'T'PUTS
Paddy                        kg           320            330           303
Maize                        kg           230            185           212
Groundnut                    kg           755           1,267          733
Soya bean                    kg           510            523           488
1/ Seed assumed to command a premium of about 25% above output prices.



49                                                                      ~~~~~~~AiNNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Derivation of Economic Prices
(Ckonhlant L991 Ruipiah)
%2.   1-h- Pot 646how       us"           "                      j999      1393     1       ml   4           £ u        U          2440                                           its49 3   39  Di     £444
aUQ..VA44.-4                                           2I7         no         itI         24         24"        244        233    -313            33         V7.         u3         244        273         249 
F.,Sm a i- d*                                            33         3s         33          is         33         33s         3
434  LOD -39RV4 3N  A C                              449         44         674         MD         423        34          324    Id*           34          $31        349         44          323        4as        431
P.  4       . 9 . ..                       3              4         3           34         v          34         3p          3'    -Po                                   a 7 2       24          3d         34         23
It- Vdw p-                                  4"-  3        437        43        J3          43          "          143     -             43        -43          33         43          3    4      33'1      43
c...-..4. 3444                            43W           744        423         444        344        444       3S"          344     43           224         i93n                   249        DI          34         237
C-0                        -            3          v           a          23         3          20          v    -                           v           31    31               3          a          v
1.0 orLoowi        41101A        4$4         404        494        4949       41"        304        30344                              34        349          90         49           n        3
F..4m       ..W*                                                               la          23                    30         20
V4119 Lao - RVp 0414                    f.4K         24)         242        774         234        2U         773        234    3P34~          473         340        loo         43          I7S        33         it3
M 49..W444t 4440D40-                      Jo           32          3          id          3          32         id         31       -             I0          V         la         V4          3           to
30'Vdo ~        d   --1,                                                20         1                     244,        1        -                      30                                             44. 0 
.4_3Go. F.                   ft9X4          24,                               LI          1421 ?.                                                             4
1.....  4....~~~340440         444R. 4.      444        I"4         2 4        49"        Ili        242        IVO      _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  __  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  __  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _
Q-A".. ^A44.                            I                                                                                          -F" 7                     3S4        732   44 SoI           433         Jo         347
R... - 3444444......              c 0 15..  34-44*73
01/7033ll                                 4334W         442        473        424         727        713        424         74     VW3           434         424       3S"          44         "I          344        I
P...44..34.j.3....L-                .3%           43          44         4           72         49         44          34t     3            42          41         33          44          2          77         U1
.q.4.W443404UP484r                  I            34          38         31         3          30         31          is    -                0         24          3          31          31         3
4994   4934  399W   3940    4994       1493       1494~~~~0                           30         36           s         R
SOA  BS."                                                               loo4-o.Pom
0.444pA043313                            _j -3W         24         3W         "I          I39        3          232        lid4
0F1Fo03 P3..                              413*          2          344         344        374        34         247        34,
v=L4   *        44                       PM4E         492        443        644          333       342        479         347
Mo444..S     . L.                450W           23         33         3it         2          24         24          23
448494447.40            1 -               43    43~~~~~~~~2     432    43              3          43         4
- ~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~            "                               4411
URNA 344% M)                                                                                                                                                        5.9.40?...
1149 LUus"44                                                                                                                   9.4           in          334         144        14 74                  179        33
.44LODk  R* 41.-                                                                                                                  V*            38         Jl           3S         34          M           34         34s
=        t____ _ _________                             444         844        349        440        449        249          44
r nn.~~~~ 341rp3,p4J31..A.. ~~~~~~~1141 949 19443v=                                                        P0
F;,.W. So lm~~~                 4             43           3         43         4          43         43          4
Cy4.4....                                33           480        214        301         434        174        214        224
43334.44.RV4343                          P`%4 ~    349           'is         34a        M9          44        443         439
T.            1..0..   9b                                           31          *0         3W          is        *, 
114 334    44          am4       499        431         *01
cly 1.0~~~~                    VW3           I43         434        425        1442        3id        434        433
PUU LO  3p  to's                        RP4ft4         274        23M         "I         33,        3,         311         N
'=   -    Id k.40                             3           3          34         34          34        U4          34
so-owT   od14 . "od3                        *            4           4          Is         43         43         43          43
II.4. 4 .041i.                            3.             334        330        Is$         lot         234       33'l        3



-50                                      ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Crop Yield Estimates 1/
(Tonnes per hectare per crop)
Crop                        SAR          SAR           PCR        PCR          PCR
Pre and Without   Forest    Without      With    Incremental
Projeat    With Project    Project   Proiea       Yields
Paddy 2/-Java                4.5          5.0          5.0         5.1          0.1
- Outside Java       4.0          4.5          4.5         4.6          0.1
- Rainfed 3/         2.5          4.5          2.5
Maize                        1.4          3.0          2.0         2.2          0.2
Soya bean                    0.8          1.2          1.0         1.2          0.2
Groundnut                    0.8          1.0          0.8         1.0          0.2
Cropping Patterns
(Percentages of Total Area Cropped 4/)
Crop                   Sufae IrniSbn     O.a FProljau      Swmp         Growmdhmaw
With aM                         Wilt and
Without      Without   With     Without    Wittht  With
Paddy                       71%          80%    71%         660%       26%    17%
Maize                        6%           4%     6%'         7%        44%    31%
Soya bean                   17%          12%    17%         20%        19%    31%
Groundnut                    6%           4%     6%          7%        11%    21%
100%         100%   100%        100%       100%   100%
1/ Based on PBME annual survey data, ISF Socio-economic survey and mission estimates.
2/ Rice yields based on awrage of wet and dry season crops.
3/ Rainfed rie moves to hrrated under the protec
4/ SAR cropping pauerms.



-51-                                                  ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Financial Crop Budaets Per Hectare
(Rp 000-30% Hired Labour)
HYV RICE
Wet Sesso                                                          Dr  Smon
Itam        -     UOit  - uanty            Jav    Outi.            Ihem,             Unt       Ountity         Jav    Outside
Yield               t                        5.1        4.6        Yield               t                        5.2         4.6
RCevca           RD D000                   1632        1472        RCwnue           Rp OD0                     1664       1472
Seed               kg             30         12          12        Seed              k4              30          12         12
Frtiumr                                                            Fsr iw
Urc               kg            200         50          50         Ur                4g            200          50         50
TSP               kg            100          31         31         TSP                kg           I0           31         31
KCI               kg             60          16         16         KO                kg             60          16         16
Pmjdcide            I              2         32          32        Pestedde            I              2          32         32
ROdenicide         kg              2           9          9        ROdendcide         kg              2           9          9
Hired Labour      day             45         113        135        Hired Labour      day             45         113        135
Oxen              dra             15         90          90        OxeA              das             15          90         90
Total COst       RO 000                      352        375        ToUt Cosu        RD 000                            352  375
Net Reama"    RD 000                       1290        1097        Net RCewna-   Rp 000                        1312       1097
MAIZE                                                          SOYA BEAN
Item              Lhai  Qumtry             Jaw     O Outaide.      Itnm    U- at..   :CUmwty -.   Ja:          U       OutsC
Yield               t                        2.2        2.2        Yield               t                         1.2        1.2
RCVCue           RD OOD                     506         506        Reinue           RP ODD                      612        612
Costs                                                              Cos
Seed               kg             25           7          7        Seed               kg             45          28         28
Fwrtilizer                                                         Fertlizer
Urer              kg             80         20          20         Uren              kg             25           6          6
TSP               kg             30           9          9         TSP                kg            50          16          16
KC                kg             20           5          5         KC                kg                          0          0
Pesiede             I                          0          0        Pmdtice             I              1          16         16
Rodeauicide        kg                          0          0        Rodenticide        kg                          0          0
HirFed LbOur      days            25         63          75        HredL abour       day             25          63         75
OXee              ds                           0          0        Oxen              das                          0          0
Total Cost       Rp 000                      104        117        ToUI Costa       RD OO                       129        141
Net RCwume    RP 000                        4O          3S9        Net Rew.,e    RP 000                         4C         471
GROUNDNUT
Itccl            LUcit      Qu&5tity       JAva   Ouxi;de
.-Ja
Yield               t                        1.0        1.0
RCVenUe          RP 000                     755         755
Cost&
Seed               kg             80          72         72
Fwuue
Ure               kg             50          13         13
TSP               kg            10D         31         31
KC                kg             50          14         14
Pesdcide            1              2          32         32
Radenticide        kg                          0          0
Hred Labour       da"             28          70         84
Oxen              da                           0          0
TOUI Cmt         RP OCO                      231        245
Net RCwume    RP 000                         524        510



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECrOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Cropped Areas
(Hectares)
crop                      BEOM   mlpiht            EOM  Swamp         Ougojag Projects IV       Gro.adwas.r
tWthout     With      Without      With      Without      With     Without      With
Paddy                    1,369,343   1,441,414    147,371    157,196    112,890    125.237       1,927      1.940
Maize                      115,719    121,810     15,63D      16,672      5,644    1,58         3,261      3,574
Soya l                     3Z7,71    345,127      44,65B      47,635     16,933     29.986       1,406      3,574
GMoundnut                  115,719    121,810     15,63D      16,672      5,644     10,583        815       2,421
Total Qopped Am=         1,928,652  2,030,160    2Z3,29      2x176    141,112    176,390         7,412     11,530
Total Comnd AMg           1,015P06   1,015,060    14860    14,860        88,195      88,195      4,118      4,118
Intensity                    190%       200%       150%       160%        160%       200%       180%        280%
1/  igati0 1and SWaMP.
Incremental Crop Production
(Tonnes/year)
Crop                    SAR    PCR
Paddy                653,068    620,390
Maize                143,595        55,27
Soya bean            106,331      120,717
Groundnut              21,189       41,239



-53-                             .            ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECr
(Loan 2880-IND)
Economic Analyses of Special Maintenance and EOM
JAVA
YEA"    CUMULATE   PRJECT           1D0       0m       ISCRMDrAL       Mrfr   CS NE
IOM AREA    51111011     WITH      WITHOUTr    co1S       3IRPTTS  UaZJAiyTAL
(KA)        csT     r121cr    ManEcT                       v        BEN1Prr
---(RP M ion)--
1987/88     197,865      13,439                 1,420      12,019          0      (12,019
1988/89     481,903      35,199                 3,331      31,869       4,498     (27,371
1989/90     688S50       12,427                 7,48        5,080      12,648       7,569
1990,91     824,295      23,534                10,930      12,604      22,709      10,105
1991,92     824295                 23,121      10,930      12,191      24,425      12,Z33
1992i93     824,295                23,121      10,90       12,191      24,887      12696
1993194     824295                 23,121      10,930      12,191      24,87       12,696
1994/95     824,295                2.3,121     10,930      12,191      24,87       12,696
1995i96     824,295                23,121      10,930      12,191      24,87       12,696
1996,97     824,295                23,121      10,930      12,191      24,887      12,696
1997/98     824,295                23,121      10,930      12,191      24,87       12,696
1998,99     824,295                23,121      1090        12,191      24,87       12,696
1999(2000     824,95                 23,121      10,930      12,191      24,87       12,696
2000-2007       824,295                23,121      10,930     12,191      24,887      12,696
ERR-         25.8%
V/ Bcd on 15%otproject areareng iU benefiLso(O. it, incr3c in rice yiel, O.2 tba inem inpakhwijacop yieis and
10% incaea in cmpping intensity.
OUTSIDE JAVA
YEAR    CUMULATVE   PRJECT          34         O&M      lCMEMOkMAL .   NEr         Nur
EON AREA    SM10         wrrn     WfhwIoulr     as        BEDEPTS  INCtaBNrAL
(HA)          s       nRuECr    FROMr                       v       Bw Prn
-    -------- (Rp Mflhion - -
1987/88           0       4,538                     0       4,538           0      (4,538)
1988/89      82,076      12,506                     0      12,506           0     (12X6
1989,90     156.119       6,072                 1,667       4,4"4       3,357      (1,047)
1990/91     190,785       5,882                 2,530       3,353       9,28        5,916
1991,92     190,785                 5,352       2,530       2,82       10,286       7,465
1992/93     190,785                 5,352       2,530       2822       10,423       7,601
1993,94     190,785                 5,352       2,530       2822       10,423       7,601
1994.95     190,785                 5,352       2,530       2822       10,423       7,601
1995,96     190,785                 5,352       2,530       2, 82      10,423       7,601
1996,97     190,785,                5,352       2,530       2,8ZZ      10,423       7,601
199798      190,785                 5,352       2,530       2,Z        10,423       7,601
1998/99     190,785                 5,352       2,530       282        10,423       7,601
1999QOOD      190,785                 5,352       2,530       282        10,423       7,601
2000-2007       190,785                 5,352       2,530      2,822       10,423      7,601
ERR-         28.8%
I/ Bawdon 30%otp jatarc=ivnig bil beneelsoC02. thn inocmeinreyiel.2ub incmasciepasiijarop ytet ad
10* ie   jDn opping intensity.



54 -                                            ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Economic Analyses of Swamps and Ongoinz Proiects
SPECLAL MAINENANCE AND EOM TO SWAMPS
YEAR    cZflsULATm      PRozur       EOCU        O*M      DPCZflWAL       HEr         NWT
IOM AREA      SWOUm        WIT      wrTOUT   ou m            Bm Ns   INcWdUrAL
(HA)        cam       FROM=C    PROECr                        v        B4PS
---(Rp Million)- - _
1987/88       12,500       1,324                     90        1,234           0       (1U345
1988/89       46,100       4,998                    319        4,679         688       (3,991)
1989,90       99210       11,303                  1,060       10,243       2,364      (7,880
1990,91      148860       16,155                  1,974       14,181       4,784       (9,397)
1991,92      148,860                  4,176       1,974        2202        8,844       6,542
1992/93      14880                    4,176       1,974        2,202       7,752       5,550
1993/94      148,860                  4,176       1,974        2,202       8,091       5,890
1994/95      148,860                  4,176       1,974        2202        8,091       5,890
1995/96      148,860                  4,176       1,974        2,202       8,091       5,890
1996,97      148,860                  4,176       1,974.       2,02        8,091       5,890
1997/98      148,860                  4,176       1,974        2202        8,091       5,890
1998/99      148,860                  4,176       1,974        2,202       8,091       5,890
1999/2000      148,860                  4,176        1,974       2,202       8,091        5,890
2000-2007       148,860                   4,176       1,974       2,202        8,091       5,890
ERR -         21.1%
i1 Bed on 30% oproject area rceiving uai bencfiu oro.1 itAia nuce in nce yield, 02 tlt incresm in palawija crop yield and
10% increase in copping intensity.
COMPLETION OF ONGOING PROJECTS (Irrigation and Swamps)
YEAR   aCUULATIVI   nvR cr           iOM         o&u      ItcaeurAL       NHEr       NIr
EOM AREA      sWmU         WITH     WITHOUtr       aoS       BEHEFIM  Z1CaBMSRTAL
(HA)        C061      PROECr   PROJECT                        U        BEw4EuS
1987/88            0           0                      0            0           0           0
19898/9       29,398      38,602        566         203       38,964           0      (38,964)
1989,90       58,797      38,273      1,292         628       38,937      10,956      (27,981)
1990/91       88,195      36,555      2,031       1,169       37,416      31,963       (5,453)
1991192       88,195                  2,474       1,169        1,304      44,417       43,113
1992,93       88,195                  2,474       1,169        1,304      43,922      42,617
1993/94       88,195                  2,474       1,169        1,304      43,922       42,617
1994/95       88,195                  2,474       1,169        1,304      43,922       42,617
1995,96       88,195                  2,474       1,169        1;304      43,922       42,617
1996Y97       88,195                  2,474       1,169        1,304      43,922       42,617
1997/98       88,195                  2,474       1,169        1,304      43,922       42,617
1998,99       8°,195                  2,474        1,169       1,304      43,922       42,617
199912000       88,195                  2,474        1,169       1,304      43,922       42,617
2000-2007        88,195                   2,474       1,169        1,304      43,922      42,617
ERR -         36.5%
1V Bcd on project becfic uaumpptionof IA5 aincre in nrc yiel4 02 tilh incrrse in plawijacrop yels and 40% mcaea ia
cropping inaeasity.



- 55  -                                       ANEX 3
Table 9
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Economic Analyses of Groundwater Proiects
GROUNDWATEPR DEVELOPMENT - LOMBOK
YE"R     CmUULATriE    PRJCECr  BOUWxN    OhM            IcRIJArrAL Ner              NW-
!OM AREA       ca        iLAtT    WITH            C          aENEpr     ICKMAL
(NA)                     v       PrOJEcr                     2/       amipns
(    Million)---
1987/88                      104                                104                    (104
1988/89         525        4,585                              4,585                   (4,585)
1989/90        1,050       5,428                              5,428         303       (5,125
1990/91        1,575       4,371                              4,371         790       (3,582)
1991/92        1,575                                46           46       1,241        1,194
1992/93        1,575                                46           46       1,185        1,138
1993/94        1,575                                46           46       1,185        1,138
1994/95        1,575                                46           46       1,185        1,138
1995/96        1,575                                46           46       1,185        1,138
1996/97        1,575                                46           46       1,185        1,138
1997,98        1,575                   423          46          470       1,185         715
1998/99        1,575                   501          46          548       1,185         637
1999/2000        1,575                   404          46          450        1,185        735
2000-2007         1,575                                 46          46        1,185       1,138
ERR -          2.6%
1/ 50%ofequipmoctcosts conted with SCFofO.9.
2J Bacd on project benefit assumptions of 05 ua are sn nce yield, 0.2 tCa ine  in polawija crop yields and cropping
intensty inae of 100% (180% to 280%D)
GROLUNDWATlER DEVELOPMENT - EAST JAVA & SULAWE-SI
Ye9<t   ClndlnLATTE   Frrsucr  rMgnOWceT    cwkm         Dr-REbKTAL      NLrr        NLr
EO   RE         o        Ar=Mlr    vMirr      a os m9l BENEFrl IPrMTAL
(IL4)                    I/       ECrF                      V2ENEn
1987/88
1988/89         807        3,925                    24        3,949                   (3,949)
19S9/90        1,749       4,009                    52        4,()fi        4A7       (3,593)
1990/91       2,543        3,926                    75        4,001       1,313       (2,8)
1991/92        2,543                                75           75       2,008        1,933
1992,93        2,543                                75           75        1,919       1,844
1993/94        2,543                                75           75        1,919       1,844
1994/95        2,543                                75           75        1,919       1,844
1995/96        2,543                                75           75        1,919       1,844
1996/97        2,543                                75           75        1,919       1,844
1997t98        2,543                   854          75          929        1,919        990
1998t99        2,543                   872          75          947        1,919        972
1999/2000        2,543                   854           75         929        1,919         990
2000-2007         2,543                                 75          75        1,919       1,844
ERR-    123%
1/ 50% of equipment cosu coavrnted with SCF of 0.9.
2/ Based on poje  benefit assumptios of 0 tza increaein irice yieK 02 Ois irme in palawija crop yields and cropping
intenuty i-rae of 10D% (180% to 280%).



- 56 -                                       ANNEX 3
Table 10
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
Overall Proiect Economic Analysis
OVERALL PROJECr
(Rp Milion)
YEAR      PROCBCr   moumurr   ECU              O*M      INCaEMERTAL    NET         NET
Cam    RnuLACWr    Wil           WTIUOUT       cmTS      BENETP   INCRBMIlcAL
M _ " TA)              PROJECT    PRCJECT                              BENErS
1987/88     19,405                              1,510      17,895           0      (17,895)
1988/89     99,815                   590        3,852      96,552       5,186     (91,366)
1989/90     77,511                  1.343      10,703      68,152      30,095      (38,57)
1990/91     90,424                  2,1C6      16,603      75,927      70,828      (5,09)
1991,92                            35,244      16,603      18,641      91,220      72,579
1992)93                            35,244      16,603      18,641      90,088      71,447
1993J94                            35,244      16,603      18,641      90,427      71,787
1994/95                            35,244      16,603      18,641      90,427      71,787
1995,96                            35,244      16,603      18,641      90,427      71,787
1996,97                            35,244      16,603      18,641      90,427      71,787
1997/98                 1,277      35,244      16,603      19,917      90,427      70,510
1998/99                 1,373      35,244      16,603      20,013      90,427      70,414
1999/2000                 1,257      35,244      16,603      19,898      90,427      70,529
2000-W7                               35,244      16,603      18,641       90,427      71,787
ERR  =    28.9%    - bac cme eucludiq institutional suengthening and technical asin.
ERR -       22.7%    - hue ce including institutional stengthening and technical assistance.



- 5~7-
- 57 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 11
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2880-IND)
ERR Sensitivity Analysis of SM/EOM 1/
Percentage        ERR %             ERR %             ERR %
of Area          Without          Without             With
Assumed           Yield            Intensity          Both
to Benefit       Increases         Increases          Effects
JAVA
10%                                                     6.9
12%                                   -                15.4
15%                 -               -0.4               25.8
20%               -3.6              11.6               40.9
50%               43.0              61.7
OUTSIDE JAVA
12%                 -                 -                 0.8
15%                 -                 -                 7.5
20%                 -                 1.4              15.8
30%                 -               13.3               28.8
50%               12.4              29.4               49.5
100%               35.0              59.4               89.5
1/ Based on ERR calculations presented in Table 7.






-ow                                              l;r                                               1r                                                           IBRD 2024RD
PHILIPPINES
THAILAND
SOUTH CHINA SEA
PACIFIC
OCEAN
BRUNEI
DJ ACEH                       M MALAYSIA                                                                                              -- \j._                                                    /
WMf-    <   *lJ     /                       \                          eMALAYSIA                 9                Celebes          Sea                      /
SUMATER                                   
,NSINGAPORE                                                                                                       SULAWESI UTAR 
>'AATRI 3                           .                                                          KAUMANTANUM AaU
/   UaTIAc ,    RAMU               -_o                                  ERAnT            ,(                --     9)                                                                                   -
opa.,   ?.r~~                                                        KAUMANTAN                                        n                                                            _A=-
JAMBI-                                                                    TENGAHOA'                                   SULAWESI                                    MA_I.      _
gE N Ct                                                                                                          \           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLWS  MALUKU  
(-SUMATERAASLTA
-9-.               ~~~~~KALIMANJTAN           SLTN
B&40KULU)  S(LAAN ~~~~~~   -  -  I                         A - ~~~SELATAN                          2UAWL-
- -.    - N  X                        TENGGARA
s.#ios.r  .        N -s                                                                                           -         _
'-S/AMPliNG-- Jova                                Sea                                    MnA,p  U
I N D O N E S I A                         / _         o,g_                                 g          .                                                                                              e
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT                                    '            WA-A                                                                                                                      Banda  Sea
JAWAAAr UAtT                             _
SDEQ  WAINTENANG! AND~ATEGN
t.  IFFICIENT OW  MIGATION                         _JAWA TENGAH
' EFFOAL! CaM SWAMIS                                                             - y*E2  <JAWA                          NUSA TENCGGRA  ARAT                            -
a  ON-GONG NOJtC                                                                                    - 'A Ll/=_    ,
* GIOUNDWATEB SWIS-IJMOAT                                                                                                    ---        I         EA
MOUTH                                                                                                                                         NUSA TENCGAlA TIMI                -
'eOViNa IOUN0AWS                                                    INDIAN         OCEAN                                               .." t    r*  wh 
_._INTMAIONAL BOUNDA*IS
KW""
a    iw  2w   2w   0m   no                                         ~-
O,OMA,TERS
,-  M   DE -   -EC   IWI



