Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2880 IND
                  (Irrigation Subsector Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 3, 1987
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  3,  1987,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  the Bank has received a  letter, dated October 13, 1987,
from the Borrower including a Statement of Policies for Irrigation
Operation and Maintenance and  Cost  Recovery, and an Action Plan,
(together, the Statement);
     (C)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
the  Netherlands  (the  Netherlands)  for  funds  (the Netherlands
Funds) in an amount equivalent  to  about $12,000,000 to assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement  or  agreements (the Netherlands Agreements)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Netherlands;
Page  2
     (D)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
Italy (Italy) a  grant  (the  Italian  Grant)  of  which an amount
equivalent to about $3,000,000  will  assist  in financing part of
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Italian  Grant  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into between the
Borrower and Italy; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BAPPEDA" means  the  Borrower's  Provincial Development
Planning Agency;
     (b)  "BAPPENAS"  means  the  Borrower's  National Development
Planning Agency;
     (c)  "DGFCA" means  the  Directorate  General  of  Food Crops
Agriculture in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (d)  "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
     (e)  "DIPERTA" means provincial agricultural services;
     (f)  "DPU" means provincial public works;
     (g)  "efficient operation and maintenance" means the level of
operation and maintenance needed to sustain the effectiveness, and
meet the  performance  standards  as  designed,  of  an irrigation
system with appropriate  funding  and  procedures for planning and
implementation;
     (h)  "FY" means the Borrower's  fiscal year beginning April 1
and ending March 31;
     (i)  "IPEDA" means Iuran  Pembangunan  Daerah, Directorate of
IPEDA, within the Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance responsible for
PBB;
     (j)  "PBB" means the Borrower's land and building tax;
     (k)  "PRIS" means provincial irrigation services;
     (l)  "Rupiah" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (m)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (n)  "WUA" means Water Users' Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in this
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to two
hundred thirty-four million dollars ($234,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account in Bank Indonesia
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall  be March 31, 1991,  or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,   financial,    engineering,    agricultural   and
environmental practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed,
Page  4
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this  Section  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Statement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall cause the training programs
included in the Project  to  be  carried  out in accordance with a
timetable and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.04. (a) The  Borrower  shall,  in areas affected by
the Project, take appropriate measures for malaria control, taking
into account environmental and health aspects.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, by  March  31,  1990, furnish to the
Bank for comment the  results  of the environmental impact studies
referred to in Schedule 2, Part I.3.
     Section 3.05.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  maintain a Project
Coordinating   Unit   within   DGWRD,   responsible   for  overall
coordination and review of project implementation. Such Unit shall
be staffed with qualified personnel in adequate numbers, including
a Project Coordinator who shall  be the Assistant Director General
of DGWRD; and  (b)  cause  BAPPENAS  to  coordinate monitoring and
reporting  progress  on  the   Statement  through  the  functional
coordination of DGWRD,  DGFCA,  Directorate  of IPEDA, Directorate
General of Public Affairs of  Ministry  of Home Affairs, and other
relevant agencies when required.
     Section 3.06. For each  Province  in which Project activities
are carried  out,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  maintain, a Project
Management and  Implementation  Unit  with  qualified personnel in
adequate numbers, including  a  Project  Manager  who shall be the
PRIS Chief; and
     (b)  cause  BAPPEDA  to   coordinate  Project  implementation
monitoring and progress, through  functional coordination of PRIS,
DIPERTA and Field Inspectors Offices of IPEDA.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  an  event  shall  have  occurred  which  shall  make  it
improbable that the Borrower  will  carry  out  the Statement or a
significant part thereof; and
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)   the right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                     Borrower for  the  financing  of  the Project
                     shall  have  been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                     terminated in whole  or  in part, pursuant to
                     the   terms   of   the   Agreement  providing
                     therefor, or
               (B)   any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due and
                     payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:
               (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                     prematuring is not  caused  by the failure of
                     the   Borrower   to   perform   any   of  its
                     obligations under such agreement; and
               (B)   adequate funds for  the Project are available
                     to the Borrower  from  other sources on terms
                     and    conditions    consistent    with   the
                     obligations  of   the   Borrower  under  this
                     Agreement.
Page  6
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional  events are specified, any of
the events specified in  paragraphs  (a)  or (b)(i)(B), subject to
the  proviso  of  paragraph  (b)(ii),  of  Section  5.01  of  this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Director General for
             International Monetary Affairs
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINISTRY FINANCE                DJMLN JKT 45799
               Jakarta                         DITJMON JKT 46415
                                               DEPKEU JKT 44319
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ Soesilo Soedarman
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
                   By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works for           125,800,000      91%
     the Project
     (other than
     Part B)
(2)  Civil works                11,500,000      91% of expendi-
     for Part B of                              tures incurred
     the Project                                in FY 1987/1988;
                                                80% of expendi-
                                                tures incurred
                                                in FY 1988/1989;
                                                73% of expen-
                                                ditures incurred
                                                in FY 1989/1990
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Equipment and                              (
     materials                                  (
                                                (
     (a)  for ground-                           (
          water tube-                           (100% of foreign
          well systems                          (expenditures,
                                                (95% of local
          (i) first              3,500,000      (expenditures
              package                           ((ex-factory
                                                (cost); 65% of
          (ii) second            2,500,000      (local expendi-
               package                          (tures for other
                                                (items procured
     (b)  DGWRD (except                         (locally
          3(a) above)           10,240,000      (
                                                (
     (c)  IPEDA                    400,000      (
                                                (
     (d)  DGFCA                    660,000      (
(4)  Consultants'                               100%
     services
     (a)  DGWRD                 39,850,000      100%
     (b)  IPEDA                    850,000      100%
(5)  Training, mapping and                      100%
     surveys, including
     travel and materials
Page  8
     (a)  DGWRD                 12,900,000      100%
     (b)  IPEDA                  2,800,000      100%
     (c)  DGFCA                  3,000,000      100%
(6)  Unallocated                20,000,000
          TOTAL                234,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000,  may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures  before  that date but after August
31, 1987.
     (b)  unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, for payments made
for expenditures:
          (i)  after June 30,  1988,  until  the Bank has received
               evidence satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  (A) the
               Borrower  has  made  budgetary  allocations  for FY
               1988/89 which maintain in  real terms financing for
               nation-wide irrigation operation and maintenance at
               the  FY  1986/87  level,  and  provide  incremental
               funding   needed   for   efficient   operation  and
               maintenance,  and   (B)   the   Borrower  has  made
               satisfactory  actual  expenditures  for nation-wide
               irrigation   operation   and   maintenance   during
               FY 1987/88;
         (ii)  after June 30,  1989,  until  the Bank has received
               evidence satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  (A) the
               Borrower  has   made   budgetary   allocations  for
               FY 1989/90 which  maintain  in real terms financing
               for    nation-wide    irrigation    operation   and
               maintenance at the  FY  1986/87  level, and provide
               incremental funding needed  for efficient operation
               and maintenance,  and  (B)  the  Borrower  has made
               satisfactory  actual  expenditures  for nation-wide
               irrigation   operation   and   maintenance   during
               FY 1988/89; and
        (iii)  after June 30,  1990,  until  the Bank has received
               evidence satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  (A) the
               Borrower  has   made   budgetary   allocations  for
               FY 1990/91 which  maintain  in real terms financing
               for    nation-wide    irrigation    operation   and
               maintenance at the  FY  1986/87  level, and provide
               incremental funding needed  for efficient operation
               and maintenance,  and  (B)  the  Borrower  has made
               satisfactory  actual  expenditures  for nation-wide
               irrigation   operation   and   maintenance   during
               FY 1989/90.
     (c)  payments made for  expenditures  in  respect of Category
(3)  (a)  (ii)  until  the  Borrower  has  furnished  to  the Bank
Page  9
evidence, satisfactory to  the  Bank,  that financing is available
for the installation of such equipment and materials.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of  the  Project  is  to support the Borrower's
effort  in  the   irrigation   subsector   to:   (i)  sustain  the
effectiveness  of  all  its  irrigation  systems  through adequate
levels of funding and  strengthen  institutions and procedures for
operation  and  maintenance   planning  and  implementation;  (ii)
introduce direct cost  recovery  from irrigation beneficiaries and
increase  local   revenue   generation;   and   (iii)  rationalize
investments in the subsector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Special Maintenance Works
1.   Carrying out of special maintenance works, including deferred
maintenance and minor systems  upgrading,  so that the systems are
brought  up  to  the   technical  standards  to  enable  efficient
maintenance program  to  be  designed  and  implemented,  on about
400,000 ha of surface irrigation  systems in the provinces of West
and  South  Sumatra,  Lampung,   West,   Central  and  East  Java,
Yogyakarta, South Sulawesi  and  West  Nusa Tenggara; provision of
laboratory  buildings  and  housing  for  operational  staff;  and
provision of adequate transport for section offices Cabang Dinas.
2.   Carrying  out   of   special   maintenance  works,  including
maintenance and  upgrading  activities,  on  about  106,000  ha of
reclaimed swamp land in  the  provinces  of  West, North and South
Sumatra, Lampung, and South Kalimantan.
3.   Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of special maintenance works,
to explore the most  cost-effective technical solutions to control
siltation and littoral  drift,  including construction of training
walls and ancillary works, in five  river mouths in North and West
Sumatra, and West, Central and East Java.
Part B:   Efficient Operation and Maintenance
1.   Carrying  out   of   efficient   operation  and  maintenance,
including periodic physical repair  work,  on  about 700,000 ha of
surface irrigation systems (including the systems having undergone
special  maintenance  under  Part  A  of  the  Project); providing
adequate numbers and training  of,  the staff responsible for such
operation and maintenance.
2.   Carrying out of efficient  operation and maintenance on about
87,000 ha of reclaimed swamp land; providing adequate numbers, and
training,  of  the  staff   responsible  for  such  operation  and
maintenance.
Part C:   Completion of On-going Projects
     Completion of  about  40  high-priority  on-going irrigation,
swamps and river projects selected by the Borrower on the basis of
technical, economic and other criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Pilot Groundwater Development
     Development of about 900  tubewell irrigation systems in East
Java, Lombok, and Central and South Sulawesi.
Part E:   Turnover of Small Irrigation Systems
     Turnover of small irrigation  systems  to WUAs, including the
following activities: (1)  inventory  and  selection of irrigation
Page  10
systems of less than  150  hectares  in  size and having perennial
water supply; (2) selection  and  training  of WUA staff including
WUA organizers to  implement  the  turnover program; (3) designing
and carrying out of special maintenance works on selected systems;
(4) institutional strengthening  of  WUAs and specialized training
of staff involved  in  operation  and  maintenance  and in turning
over; and (5) routine monitoring.
Part F:   Irrigation Service Fee
     Introduction of  irrigation  service  fee  in  selected pilot
areas,  satisfactory  to   the   Bank,  including  formulation  of
implementation plans, monitoring  and evaluation, establishment of
arrangements  providing  a  basis  for  nationwide  expansion, and
acquisition of related equipment and materials.
Part G:   Land Valuation and Strengthening of PBB
1.   Reclassification and  assessment  of  land  holdings in about
400,000 ha receiving  special  maintenance and efficient operation
and maintenance  under  the  Project,  in  accordance  with a land
classification and valuation system  based  on the market value of
the land.
2.   Development of an efficient  and effective tax management and
collection  system,  including   installation  of  a  computerized
management information system to help improve tax administration.
3.   Strengthening of the Directorate  of IPEDA and its inspection
offices including staff training.
4.   Local  and  overseas  training  of  about  175  PBB  staff in
cartography, specialized surveying, land valuation, tax management
and administration, mapping and evaluation/assessment criteria.
Part H:   Institutional Strengthening and Training
1.   Training of about 3,000 middle  and lower level operation and
maintenance staff in irrigated and  swamp areas in basic operation
and  maintenance  duties  and  practical  skills,  and  about  110
trainers, about 420 technical  high  school  level staff and about
275 engineers in  operation  and  maintenance  procedures; and the
provision of related furniture, equipment, supplies and materials;
classroom  rentals;  and  provision  of  fees  and  per  diems  to
trainers, local travel and salaries of support staff.
2.   Training of WUA  leaders  and  pump  operators in groundwater
systems operation and maintenance.
3.   (a)  Training of about 200  members  of  WUA Action Groups in
community  organization;  training   of   about  1,020  irrigation
section, sub-sections and village  level  staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry  of  Home Affairs on WUA organization
and development; and
     (b)  Carrying out of surveys  and conducting an inventory and
evaluation of WUAs;  leading  to  organization, reorganization and
development of WUAs  (including  provision  of travel and salaries
and acquisition of supplies and materials).
4.   Training of about 1,500  middle level provincial and district
staff (Group A), 4,000 sub-district and village level staff (Group
B), 360 instructors,  and  8,800  WUA  members  and key farmers in
tertiary  systems  operation  and  maintenance  and  on-farm water
management; and follow-up training of about 6,700 WUA members.
5.   (a)  Provision of diploma  oriented  training  at the Bandung
International Professional  Training  Program  for Water Resources
Development for about 70 PRIS staff; and
     (b)  Provision of master degree overseas training courses for
about 25 senior level staff of DGWRD and PRIS.
Page  11
6.   Strengthening  Bidang  Diklat  Pengairan,  the  office within
DGWRD representing the Center for  Training and Education, and the
Personnel Division of DGWRD  in  the areas of training management,
monitoring and evaluation of training, and manpower planning.
7.   Strengthening operation and  maintenance  capabilities by the
provision of adequate  staff  at  section  (Cabang Dinas) and sub-
section (Ranting Dinas) levels, and adequate numbers of irrigation
inspectors.
8.   Strengthening   DGWRD's    Directorate    of   Planning   and
Programming,  and  PRIS   staff,   in  appraisal,  monitoring  and
evaluation.
9.   Acquisition  of:  (a)      micro-computers  for  meeting  the
monitoring and evaluation and  management information system needs
at the PRIS  level;  and  (b)  laboratory  and field equipment for
provincial  irrigation  offices  for  testing  appropriateness  of
construction materials and standards.
Part I:   Studies and Technical Assistance
1.   Carrying out of an institutional strengthening study of DGWRD
and PRIS including  review  and  reassessment  of  the role of the
various organizations involved  in planning, organizing, directing
and  controlling  operation  and  maintenance  activities  in  the
irrigation subsector.
2.   Carrying out of  an  investment  strategy study, including an
in-depth review, to assess the  viability of existing and proposed
irrigation investment  programs  and  the  prioritization  of such
investments.
3.   Carrying out of  five  environmental impact studies focussing
on the impact  of  irrigation  projects,  and  the introduction of
safeguards  to  protect  irrigation  and  groundwater  supply from
contamination.
4.   Carrying out detailed preparation  and  design work for about
200,000 ha  of  irrigated  areas  and  about  55,500  ha of swamps
requiring special maintenance in areas  to be agreed with the Bank
to expedite preparation of future irrigation projects.
5.   Strengthening the  Borrower's  capabilities  in  the areas of
planning, programming,  design  and  specifications, institutional
arrangements, turnover of  small  irrigation systems, introduction
of irrigation service  fee  and land reclassification/valuation by
provision of technical assistance.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
     beginning July 1, 1993
     through January 1, 2008                         7,800,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  12
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The     interest     rate
                                         (expressed      as      a
                                         percentage   per   annum)
                                         applicable to the balance
                                         outstanding  on  the Loan
                                         on the  day of prepayment
                                         multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic of
Indonesia may be  granted  a  margin  of  preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000  or  less,  may  be  awarded  in  accordance  with  the
Borrower's local competitive  bidding  procedures  in effect as of
the date of this Agreement.
2.   Civil works  for  efficient  maintenance  up  to an aggregate
limit of $13 million  equivalent,  for  maintenance works up to an
aggregate  limit  of  $25   million  equivalent  and  for  special
maintenance up to an aggregate limit of $29 million may be carried
Page  13
out by force account through the PRIS.
3.   Contracts for goods (other  than  vehicles) estimated to cost
less than the equivalent  of  $200,000,  up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $5,000,000,  may be awarded in
accordance  with   the   Borrower's   local   competitive  bidding
procedures in effect as of the date of this Agreement.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $1,500,000  or more, and each contract
for equipment estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of $200,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5)  set  forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
Page  14
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $10,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Autho-
               rized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Page  15
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
