Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4917 
 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Financial Rehabilitation Loan 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Banking (100%) 
Project ID 
P115143 
Borrower(s) 
UKRAINE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
July 13, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 13, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
September 17, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The global financial crisis exposed Ukraine’s inherent macroeconomic and banking 
vulnerabilities leading to an acute economic crisis in which GDP is projected to contract by 13 
percent in 2009, compared with average growth of 7 percent per annum between 2000 and 2007.  
The sharp deterioration of the economy has had a significant impact on fiscal revenue 
mobilization in the context of a financing shortage.  While the steep exchange rate depreciation 
(close to 40 percent relative to the USD over the last four months of 2008) helped reduce the 
current account deficit, it exacerbated the impact of the crisis on the banking sector.  
 
Pre-existing vulnerabilities in the banking sector came to the fore in late 2008.  High loan to 
deposit ratios funded primarily by external borrowing, currency and terms mismatch, and loan 
concentration (both by sector and borrowers) all contributed to the banking crisis.  The crisis 
manifested itself as a systemic liquidity and solvency crisis, including the loss of almost 30 
percent of the deposits from September 2008 to May 2009.  The deposit loss started to abate in 
late April 2009 after the NBU enforced a private recapitalization program for the largest banks, 
and the Government announced that it would take over and recapitalize those systemic banks for 
which private shareholders did not commit to recapitalization. 
 
Significant poverty impacts will derive from the underlying financial crisis and the economic 
slowdown in Ukraine.  Bank staff simulations suggest that as a result of the aggregate effect of 
the economic downturn between 2.9 and 4.4 million people may fall into, or not get out of, 
poverty. 
 
Against a background of a worsening external outlook and evident strain in the domestic 
economy, the authorities requested an IMF supported program for approximately USD 16.4 
billions, which would anchor appropriate macroeconomic policies over the next 2 years.  
 
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The objective of the proposed PFRL is to support the essential pillars of the Government of 
Ukraine (GoU) bank rehabilitation program.  In particular the proposed PFRL will: (i) support a 
sound banking sector recapitalization and restructuring process, (ii) enhance the bank resolution 
framework, and (iii) strengthen the deposit insurance payout functions.  This will in turn 
contribute to restoring financial sector stability. 
 
The first PFRL focuses on rescuing the core banking sector.
 
As such it will disburse against 
policy actions covering the adoption and implementation of a sound publicly and privately 
funded recapitalization program; the adoption and implementation of legal amendments 
enhancing the existing bank resolution process; the enhancement of deposit insurance operations 
to ensure preparedness in time of crisis.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PFRL 1 program has provided an anchor for the development of Government policies in the 
wake of the crisis.  In particular the PFRL 1 supports three areas of the Government banking 
program, namely market confidence, private and public bank recapitalization and bank 
resolution, and strengthening of the legal-regulatory framework. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
400 
 Total 
400 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The borrower is the Government of Ukraine represented by the Ministry of Finance.  This 
operation is a single-tranche loan of US$ 400 million.  The loan proceeds would be made 
available to the Borrower upon loan effectiveness.  IBRD will deposit the proceeds of the loan 
into deposit account at the request of the Ministry of Finance.  The Government will maintain 
accounts and records showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with provision of the 
Loan Agreement in a form acceptable to the Bank.  Within seven days of remittance of funds by 
IBRD, the Government will provide a confirmation to IBRD that the funds have been received 
by the NBU and are available for financing budgeted expenditures including debt servicing of 
foreign currency loans raised by the GoU.  No audit will be necessary under this DPL. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
Key expected results under the program include: a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, the 
recapitalization of the banking system, increased efficiency and transparency of bank resolution 
Page  3
system and the adoption of policies that ensure that the DGF can pay-out fast and access extra 
funding if needed. 
 
Risks 
 
Three risks have been identified: macroeconomic, political and implementation. 
 
Macroeconomic risk: significant downside risks to the economic outlook remain.  In particular: 
(i) the size and duration of current external shocks (terms of trade and low global growth); (ii) 
external debt refinancing difficulties - including more limited roll-over of private debt than 
assumed; (iii) the quality and implementation of the fiscal and monetary policy responses in the 
adjustment process; (iv) further deterioration in corporate and banking sector balance sheets due 
to the impact of the domestic economic contraction and possible further exchange rate 
depreciation; and (v) impact of possible second round effects from the drastic reduction in 
imports and the resulting impact on growth and fiscal accounts.  The main mitigant against the 
above risks is the policy framework agreed with the support of the IFIs.  
 
Political risks are high, due to a recent track record of instability and the upcoming presidential 
elections, which may delay or derail implementation of the program.  However, Ukraine has 
proven in the past that it can generate consensus at critical times and may do so again.  
Moreover, the Bank’s role in this difficult situation is to actively engage to support policy 
makers even with unpopular decisions and provide financing to help soften the costs of the 
necessary adjustment.  
 
Implementation risks pertain to the fact that program success is dependent on (i) transparent and 
professional management of bank recapitalizations and resolutions, and (ii) adoption of coherent 
policies.  The first is mitigated by provision of intensive TA, involvement of institutional 
investors, and enforcement of transparent processes and governance rules as prior actions for the 
operation.  The second is mitigated by close alignment of the World Bank with the IMF and 
other donors.  This operation has been prepared in close collaboration with the IMF team and the 
policy measures it supports are fully aligned with the financial sector program under the IMF’s 
Standby Arrangement. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
Significant poverty impacts will derive from the underlying financial crisis and the economic 
slowdown in Ukraine.
 
Bank staff simulations suggest that as a result of the aggregate effect of 
the economic downturn between 2.9 and 4.4 million people may fall into, or not get out of, 
poverty.   
 
In particular, the financial sector crisis has an impact on poverty through two direct channels, 
loss of deposits following the failure of banks and increased indebtedness following exchange 
rate depreciation (for households that borrowed in foreign currency).  A central aim of the PFRL 
is to maintain the stability of the weakened banking sector, which is critical to safeguard 
Page  4
household deposits.  By focusing on the recapitalization of systemically important banks and 
introduction of new resolution tools (the application of which will allow for a cheaper protection 
of all deposits), the PFRLs help to avoid the loss of deposits.  This helps avoid the potential 
further impoverishment of households that now depend heavily on the cushion provided by their 
savings to support their consumption. 
 
Environment Aspects 
Specific actions under the proposed PFRL operation are not expected to have any significant 
negative effect on the environment. 
 
The country policies supported by the PFRL do not affect 
environmental regulations.   
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Aurora Ferrari 
Title: Sr Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-3547 
Fax: (202) 522-3687 
Email: aferrari@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
