                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2212



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-77800)



                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 400 MILLION


                                      TO

                                   UKRAINE

                                     FOR A

           PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL REHABILITATION DPL 1



                                  July 24, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit (ECCU2)
Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 24, 2012)

     Currency Unit = Ukraine Hryvnia

              US$ 1.00 = 8.02

              FISCAL YEAR

          January 1 – December 31

  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


         CAR             Capital Adequacy Ratio
         CoM             Cabinet of Ministers
         CPS             Country Partnership Strategy
         DGF             Deposit Guarantee Fund
         ECA             Europe and Central Asia (Region)
       ECCU2             Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country
                         Unit
        ECSPF            Finance and Private Sector Development
           FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
          GDP            Gross Domestic Product
          GoU            Government of Ukraine
         IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and
                         Development
           ICR           Implementation Completion and Results
                         Report
          IMF            International Monetary Fund
           ISR           Implementation Status and Results Report
             IT          Information Technology
         M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
         MOF             Ministry of Finance
          NBU            National Bank of Ukraine
          NPL            Non-Performing Loan
          PDO            Program Development Objectives
         PFRL            Programmatic Financial Sector
                         Rehabilitation Loan
          QEA            Quality at Entry
          QSA            Quality of Supervision


       Vice President:   Philippe Le Houerou
     Country Director:   Qimiao Fan
      Sector Manager:    Lalit Raina
    Task Team Leader:    Aurora Ferrari
     ICR Team Leader     Carlos E. Piñerúa
                                                    UKRAINE

                  PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL REHABILITATION LOAN


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 18
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 22
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 29
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 30
MAP




                                                           1
                                         Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Financial Rehabilitation
Country:                Ukraine                  Program Name:            Development Policy
                                                                          Loan 1
Program ID:             P115143                  L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-77800
ICR Date:               06/19/2012               ICR Type:                Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:                UKRAINE
Original Total
                        USD 400.00M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 400.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 400.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/25/2009      Effectiveness:             09/21/2009         09/21/2009
Appraisal:            07/13/2009      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/17/2009      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   03/10/2010         03/10/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                         Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 2
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                              100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
International financial standards and systems                         50                  50
Other financial and private sector development                        50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Qimiao Fan                          Martin Raiser
Sector Manager:            Lalit Raina                         Lalit Raina
Program Team Leader:       Aurora Ferrari                      Aurora Ferrari
ICR Team Leader:           Carlos Pinerua
ICR Primary Author:        Carlos Pinerua


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the proposed PFRL 1 are to: (i) support a sound banking sector
recapitalization program and restructuring process, (ii) enhance the legal framework for
bank resolution, and (iii) strengthen the deposit insurance payout functions. This will in
turn contribute to restoring financial sector stability.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
Not applicable.



                                                 3
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                                Values (from    Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval       Target      Completion or
                                                 documents)      Values       Target Years
                   Banking system recapitalized (CAR ≥ 10%) using transparent criteria
Indicator 1 :
                   (quantitative definition of systemic banks).
Value
(quantitative or   None provided.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      08/06/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Increased efficiency and transparency of bank resolution system.
Value
(quantitative or   Not applicable.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      08/06/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   The exit of (15) non-viable banks rapidly consolidates the banking system,
Indicator 3 :
                   lowering systemic risks.
Value
(quantitative or   0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      08/06/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Adoption of policies that ensure that the DGF meets the following conditions:
Indicator 4 :
                   fast-payout, extra funding, if needed, transparent investment of resources.
Value
(quantitative or   Not applicable.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      08/06/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)




                                                4
                                               Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                     Achieved at
      Indicator       Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                  approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      None used.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                DO                       IP                Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      03/15/2010             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  399.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  5
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1. The Programmatic Financial Sector Rehabilitation Loan (PFRL1) was the first
in a series of two programmatic development loans designed to support a multi-year
program of assistance to Ukraine to address the effects of the global financial crisis on its
banking sector. The PFRL1 aimed at preserving the core of the Ukrainian banking sector
in the context of the crisis, while the second (PFRL2) would aim at restructuring the
sector and enhancing the legal and regulatory framework to make it more resilient and
position it for post crisis recovery. 1

2. The PFRL1 supported four pillars of the Government of Ukraine’s banking sector
reform program:

    (i)     Banking sector recapitalization and restructuring.
    (ii)    Resolution and consolidation of the banking system.
    (iii)   Strengthening the deposit insurance payout functions.
    (iv)    Enhancing the legal and regulatory framework.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

3. The operation came at a time of considerable economic and political
uncertainty for Ukraine. Ukraine’s political environment was characterized by an
uneasy cohabitation between the Presidency and the executive Prime Minister and an
unstable coalition in the country’s parliament. President Yushchenko’s term was to
expire in a few months after the approval of PFRL1 and presidential elections had been
set for January 2010. Prime Minister Timoshenko’s coalition government collapsed in
late 2009 after the President’s faction announced that it would leave the coalition. This
complicated the legislative process and slowed down Ukraine’s crisis response.

4. The Ukrainian economy had deteriorated sharply after the onset of the global
crisis. Annual real GDP growth decelerated to 2.3 percent in 2008, with a 7.8 percent
year-on-year contraction in the fourth quarter. Real GDP dropped by 19.6 percent in the
first quarter of 2009, with fixed investments and private consumption falling by 58.0
percent and 14.5 percent year on year, respectively. Output indicators remained sluggish
through the second quarter of 2009, with industrial production contracting by about 31
percent over the first half of the year, driven by reduced output in export-oriented and
commodity-based sectors such as steel, chemicals, and oil-refined products. In the event,
in 2009, GDP eventually dropped by close to 15 percent.

5. The global financial crisis exposed Ukraine’s inherent macroeconomic and
banking sector vulnerabilities. The intensification of the international financial crisis


1
  This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) only deals with PFRL1. A 24-month period
has elapsed since the loan’s approval by the Bank’s Executive Board, which, under Bank procedures,
triggers a preparation of an ICR if the second operation in the series has not been approved.



                                                 6
during the last quarter of 2008 triggered the joint materialization of a range of pre-
existing risks. These included external debt refinancing (given the short maturity
structure of external debt and high leverage in the private sector), banking sector
vulnerabilities associated with the rapid loan growth and predominantly external funding
of recent years, and terms of trade and external demand vulnerabilities mainly related to
the metallurgy and heavy industry sectors on the export side and the gas sector on the
import side.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6. The objectives of the proposed PFRL1 were to: (i) support a sound banking sector
recapitalization program and restructuring process, (ii) enhance the legal framework for
bank resolution, (iii) strengthen the deposit insurance payout functions, and (iv) enhance
the legal and regulatory framework. This would in turn contribute to restoring financial
sector stability.

7. Achievement of the objectives listed above was expected to be measured by the
following monitoring indicators:

Bank Recapitalization and Restructuring

    •   Banking system recapitalized (CAR ≥ 10%) using transparent criteria (quantitative
        definition of systemic banks) allowing the use of public funds only where there is no
        private sector alternative (public funding automatically gives the Government of
        Ukraine (GoU) 75% of voting rights and no special rights to minority shareholders on
        voting rights, board positions, management, or any future financial transactions).

Resolution and Consolidation of the Banking System

    •   Increased efficiency and transparency of bank resolution system.

    •   The exit of (15) non-viable banks rapidly consolidates the banking system, lowering
        systemic risks.

Deposit Guarantee Fund Payout Functions

    •   Adoption of policies that ensure that the DGF meets the following conditions: fast-
        payout, extra funding, if needed, transparent investment of resources.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

No Change.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

8. The PFRL1 supported the following three pillars of the Government of Ukraine
program:


                                              7
   (i)     Banking sector recapitalization and restructuring. Policy actions under
           this pillar would aim at ensuring that the recapitalization and restructuring
           program meets the highest standard of transparency and good governance
           and the value of banks recapitalized with public funding is maximized.
   (ii)    Resolution and consolidation of the banking system. Policy actions under
           this pillar aim at ensuring that insolvent banks be promptly resolved based
           on a least-cost principle.
   (iii)   Strengthening the deposit insurance payout functions. Policies would
           include: (i) the formulation and implementation of a strategy for crisis
           management to include approval by the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) of
           a regulation on the process required to extend a credit to the Deposit
           Guarantee Fund (DGF) and the enhancement of the existing GoU between
           the NBU and the DGF on exchange of information on banks, and (ii) the
           implementation of steps to enhance the DGF’s technical capacity to deal
           with an elevated number of depositors/payouts.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

No change.

1.6 Other significant changes

No change.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

9. Before the onset of the global crisis, Ukraine had experienced strong economic
growth but its institutions remained weak. From 2000 to 2007, real GDP growth
averaged 7.5 percent of GDP. Moreover, in the wake of the “Orange Revolution,?
expectations for institutional and policy reforms propelled FDI and financial flows to
Ukraine, particularly in the banking sector. However, the structural reform agenda moved
forward only slowly.

10. Political instability complicated policy making in the run-up to the crisis and
right up to the time of the approval of PRFL 1. Quick succession of governments with
narrow majorities following the “Orange Revolution,? political tensions between the
president and prime minister, as well as representation of vested interests in parliament
contributed to the delays in structural and institutional reforms. In the midst of the crisis,
political tensions flourished with the coalition collapsing in mid-September and the
president announcing early elections initially scheduled for December 2008, heightening
investor concerns. Political tensions persisted until the presidential elections of 2010.

11. Ukraine was one of the countries hardest hit by the global economic and
financial crisis that started in 2008. Ukraine faced a triple crisis. Exposed by its strong
reliance on steel exports, rising macroeconomic and private sector balance sheet
imbalances, the simultaneous deterioration in its terms of trade, drop in external demand


                                              8
shock, and reversal of capital flows triggered a balance of payments crisis, which also
eroded confidence in the banking system.

12. Pressure on the currency was exacerbated by the dwindling confidence in the
banking system. Widespread deposit withdrawals followed a deposit run on the sixth
largest bank Prominvest, which was put under receivership in October 2008. The collapse
of housing prices and the stock market (falling by 20 and 65 percent in the second half of
2008, respectively), intensified concerns about the banking system and the currency. In
September/October 2008, the NBU lost US$4.3 billion (12 percent) of its reserves
through interventions while the hryvnia’s market rate depreciated by over 20 percent. The
NBU injected 3.6 percent of GDP for liquidity support to deal significant deposit
outflows. 2 The impact of the crisis on the banking sector was substantial, with the NBU
putting 27 banks into temporary administration during 2008-11. Of those, 20 banks were
eventually put into liquidation, the capital of 4 banks (including two large banks,
Prominvestbank and Nadra) was increased through the issuance of shares to new
investors, and 3 banks were nationalized.

13. The authorities’ early crisis response focused on restoring financial sector
stability. The approach followed traditional crisis resolution methods along the following
four modules: (i) restoring liquidity by reducing reserve requirements and providing
NBU emergency liquidity assistance, containing deposit outflows by tripling the deposit
insurance coverage (to UAH 150,000), and putting a moratorium on the early redemption
of time deposits; (ii) putting in place a triage system consisting of diagnostics of all
banks—starting with the large, systemically important banks—in order to determine their
viability, assessing recapitalization needs, and resolving nonviable banks; (iii)
strengthening bank monitoring, increasing the frequency of NBU targeted on-site
inspections, and improving cross-border supervisory cooperation; and (iv) improving
financial disclosure.

14. The authorities’ embarked in an ambitious program of assessing banks’
financial conditions. Based on a forward-looking methodology, agreed by financial
sector experts of the IMF and World Bank and involving portfolio stress tests to capture
the expected further deterioration of the banks’ loan portfolios and depletion of the
capital buffers, the NBU commissioned bank auditors to undertake bank extended audits.
These were completed for the 34 largest banks by January 5, 2009 and for the other banks
by end-May 2009.

2.1 Program Performance

15. To support measures in the previously mentioned areas, PFRL1 included the
prior, core policy actions outlined in Box 1 below. 3 Consistent with the principles of


2
    By end-2009, NBU liquidity support amounted to close to 10 percent of GDP.

3
    See Annex 2 of the program document (Report No. 49573-UA).




                                                    9
good practice on conditionality, the PFRL1 operation narrowed conditionality to a
reduced set of triggers, designed to ensure progress in a few critical areas. The reforms
underpinning the PFRL1 matched key areas of the Government bank rehabilitation
program, as a result all triggers were owned by the authorities. The legal amendments
required for the fourth trigger were extensively commented and discussed with the
authorities and other stakeholders. As a result they were approved in Parliament by a
large majority.

        Box 1. Prior Actions/Tranche Release Conditions/Triggers for PFRL1

The following constituted prior actions for presentation of the Loan to the Bank’s Board of
Directors:

1. Adoption by the CoM or MOF of resolutions or orders to establish the institutional
   framework for a transparent bank recapitalization with public funding, to define criteria for
   accessing public funding for recapitalization, to layout the recapitalization process, including
   bond structure and liquidity, and to specify monitoring/governance framework of banks
   recapitalized with public funding.

2. Implementation by MOF and NBU of the newly established recapitalization process by
   recapitalizing three banks with public funding (Ukrgazbank, Rodovid and Kiev).

3. Adoption by the NBU of a resolution outlining specific and monitorable enforcement actions
   and timeline to ensure compliance by undercapitalized banks with privately funded
   recapitalization program.

4. Amendment of the legislative framework to introduce more efficient bank resolution
   techniques, including, amongst others: transfer of assets and liabilities without prior creditor
   approval (including depositors) before and after bank license revocation; powers of the
   Government to provide financial assistance to banks under resolution and/or to acquirers of
   such banks; creation of bridge banks owned by the Borrower; simplification of the grounds
   for introduction of temporary administration in problems banks by the NBU; civil liability
   protection for the NBU, the DGF and MOF officials, temporary administrators, auditors and
   contractors when discharging functions related to their official duties; and change in bank
   liquidation requirements to provide a higher priority for Government, NBU and DGF
   funding.

5. Implementation of a strategy for crisis management for the DGF to include:

    a. Approval of an action plan in case of large scale payouts, including a temporary staff
       relocation plan;
    b. Validation of appropriateness of current IT software;
    c. Approval by the NBU Board of a regulation on process required to extend a credit to the
       DGF;
    d. Amendment of the NBU-DGF Memorandum on exchange of information to reduce
       timeframe within which information is exchanged.

6. Approval by the DGF Administrative Board of an investment policy to ensure transparent
   investment of its resources.



                                                10
7. Establishment of a new division within the DGF to handle future resolution functions and
   launch of the appointment process for a deputy general manager overseeing the newly created
   division.




2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

16. The policies and reforms that formed part of the operation were well-grounded
from a technical point of view, but risks to the objectives of the operation were
considerable. While implementation risk was limited because all prior actions had
already been met before Board approval, a highly fragmented political environment was
likely to lead to limited effectiveness of reforms and sustainability issues. Moreover,
macroeconomic risks, which were to be mitigated by the existence of an IMF-supported
policy framework, were actually on the rise at the time of the operation’s approval, as the
IMF’s program went off track in late 2009 as fiscal policy diverged from program
commitments and questions over program ownership emerged. In hindsight, institutional
and political capacities proved sufficient to largely achieve the major short-term
development objectives of saving the core of the banking system and restoring depositor
confidence; however core structural and sectoral vulnerabilities appear to remain
unaddressed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

17. Monitoring and evaluation of the operation was to be supported by various data
sources collected by different stakeholders. Stakeholders involved in monitoring and
evaluation would include, (i) the NBU, (ii) the Ministry of Finance (MOF); (iii) the DGF.
The baselines and outcomes established were described in the project document as
objective, concrete, and measurable indicators of economic, financial and institutional
performance. 4 They were to be tracked periodically under the PFRL program.

18. Given that this was originally designed as a programmatic operation, efforts
were made to identify outcomes that could be linked to a longer-horizon program of
reforms. This was particularly the case of the indicator regarding the level of regulatory
capital. Nevertheless, a better effort could have been made in providing more clarity in
defining the indicators, which could have made it easier to assess project success:

       •   Most indicators were not supported by specific baselines, nor was a specific
           timeline for their achievement provided. The CAR indicator, for example, could
           have also been usefully linked to the need for individual banks to meet this


4
    See Annex 2 of the program document (Report No. 49573-UA).




                                                 11
          requirement, rather than for the system, whose overall CAR level, at least on
          paper, was already higher than 10 percent (14.5 percent as of June 2009). 5 Still,
          the fact remains that the goal (and the outcome) of the project was to raise
          capital for all banks to the desired level.
     •    For the most part, indicators included in the program also appear to relate more
          to ‘outputs’ rather than ‘outcomes.’ 6
     •    In defining indicators, the use of qualifiers such as ‘efficient’, ‘increased
          effectiveness’ and ‘fast’ made the task of evaluating success particularly difficult
          in the absence of specific benchmarks. While the policies adopted reflected best
          international practice in terms of design, there is a need to assess whether their
          implementation has been in line with expectations.
     •    The evaluation of outcomes could have been made easier by resorting to the use
          of better defined quantitative (rather than qualitative) indicators linked to the
          higher objective of “restoring financial sector stability,? such as measured by the
          level of household deposits in the banking sector, for example, and, in the case
          of improved administrative and legal procedures, by making specific references
          to international best practices.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

19. The second loan in the series (PFRL2) is currently at the concept stage. This
new operation would aim at continuing the restructuring the financial sector and
enhancing the legal and regulatory framework to make it more resilient and position it for
post crisis recovery. PRFL2 would also support the adoption of an efficient and least-cost
exit strategy for banks that have been recapitalized by the state and the further
strengthening of the deposit insurance and the problem bank resolution framework.
Progress would also be needed in strengthening the framework for household and
enterprise debt restructuring. Preparation of this new operation is in process.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

20. The policies supported by PRFL1 were a logical complement to the
Government’s response to the crisis. An essential part of that strategy, which was that


5
  Since the object of the recapitalization exercise was to assess capital needs in a forward-looking manner,
the reported pre-assessment CAR, which was based on existing regulatory requirements, is not comparable,
thus no useful benchmark level could be provided in principle.

6
  The use of “all banks recapitalized to at least CAR ≥ 10%? as a prior action for PRFL2 and “banking
sector recapitalized [to] CAR ≥ 10%? as an outcomes indicator for the program is an explicit case in point.
Moreover, the use of ‘actions’ such as the adoption of policies designed to increase the efficiency of bank
resolution and improve deposit guarantee mechanisms—explicitly defined as ‘outcomes’ in annex 2 of the
program document— appear to suffer from the same problem.



                                                    12
of putting in place a triage system consisting of diagnostics of large, systemically
important banks in order to determine their viability, assessing recapitalization needs, and
resolving nonviable banks, had to be accompanied by an effort to make the
recapitalization and resolution policy framework more transparent and efficient. These
policies were not only meant restore confidence in the system but also aimed to minimize
the cost to the state (taxpayers) of resolving weak banks. The program was accompanied
by a significant technical assistance support program from the international community,
including in the use of proper techniques for assessing the capital position of individual
banks and in developing the proper safeguards for the use of public money in the
recapitalization effort.

21. The objectives of the PRFL series remain very relevant today. After significant
capital injections during 2009-10 (close to US$8 billion), regulatory capital for the
system is ample (19 percent as of end-2011). Nevertheless, NPLs, as calculated by the
IMF (not the official figure), are still very high at 42 percent (IMF definition) and
profitability only returned in early 2012 after three years of losses. 7 This, on top of
continuing global uncertainties, could require a new round of recapitalization, which
could put stress on existing capacity to deal with nonviable banks and their eventual
resolution. With this in mind, it would also be key to transfer banking resolution
responsibilities from the NBU to the DGF, as per best international practice.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

22. The objectives of the program were broadly achieved, but their sustainability
could be an issue. After a significant injection of capital, CARs are very high (19
percent for the system as a whole as end- 2011). This, together with the exit of 20
nonviable banks, has put the system on stronger footing and translated into more
confidence on the part of depositors, as shown by a return of deposit flows into the
system. Nevertheless, concerns about the soundness of the system still continue, with
high NPLs and low profitability signaling potential stability problems in the future.

23. It is less clear though whether bank resolution is now more efficient and
transparent. While, as part of the program, a well-designed resolution framework was
put in place, it is subject to judgment whether, in practice, those mechanisms are being
fully utilized. For example, the resolution of Bank Nadra through sale to a new private
owner lasted for 30 months, and took place after significant concessions on the part of the
NBU and a possible infringement on depositors’ rights. In this connection, the way in
which the tool of temporary administration is being used—with ad hoc extensions and
resorting to moratorium on the repayment of deposits—may have actually reduced rather
than increased confidence in the system along with undermining the reputation of the
NBU and the Government in safeguarding the interests of depositors. Finally, while the
recent adoption of a new Law on the Privatization of State Owned Banks is a step in the



7
    The authorities figure is closer to 15 percent, which is still very high.




                                                         13
right direction, implementation is likely to be challenged by vested interests and an
unfavorable external environment for bank privatization.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

24. Overall, the program achieved its higher-order key objective—restoring short-
term stability and confidence in the banking system—but the system remains
vulnerable and bank resolution incomplete. When measured in terms of deposits
outflows, confidence started to rebound in mid-2009 and continues to this date. There is
consensus nevertheless that the system is not out the woods yet, with low quality of assets,
low profitability, and an uncertain macroeconomic environment remaining as key
vulnerabilities and hampering a return to proper financial intermediation. There is also a
risk that the ultimate fiscal costs of the banking crisis might still rise given that many
banks still owe large amounts of NBU stabilization funds and credit risk is possibly
understated.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Not applicable.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

   Rating: Substantial.

 Risks to the operation’s outcomes are operational and political.

    •   Operational Risks. The main risk comes from lingering structural problems in
        the banking system. NPLs are still high and profitability low. This, in an
        environment of global uncertainty, could quickly erase some of the gains in
        depositor confidence in the system. Continued policy dialogue, including
        through the adoption the policies to be included in the proposed in the PRFL2
        should help mitigate at least some of these risks. For example, the enactment in
        February 2012 of the new Law on the Deposit Guarantee Fund, allows for a new
        least-cost bank resolution framework in line with the best practices. Moreover,
        the recently passed law on the Privatization of State-Owned banks should help
        bring more confidence and credibility in the reform effort.

    •   Political Risks. With parliamentary elections scheduled for the second half of
        2012, there is a nontrivial probability that political tensions will emerge again,
        which could also lead to populist policy proposals or, at a very minimum, to
        delays in the implementation of needed outstanding reforms. In this connection,


                                              14
            the continuing existence of strong links between members of Parliament and
            certain banks is likely to hamper progress in this area.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

     Rating: Satisfactory.

25. Diagnostic analytical work and effective policy dialogue were at the core of the
operation’s design. PFRL1 policy areas relied heavily on existing Bank advisory work,
existing accepted best international practices, and stakeholder consultation. The
operation’s identification and design were consistent with key CPS principles, and the
supported program is still highly relevant. Risks were openly identified in the project
document, with relevant mitigation measures. The macroeconomic and operational
environment was extensively studied. In hindsight, it would have been useful to connect
proposed outcomes more closely to quantitative indicators, and to have had them linked
to actual outcomes rather than outputs.

(b) Quality of Supervision

      Rating: Satisfactory.

26. Supervision was conducted as part of the policy dialogue for—and preparation
of—the forthcoming PFRL2 operation. Although the PRFL1 operation was designed to
be part of a programmatic series of two, it effectively became a single-tranche operation
supported by the implementation of well-defined prior actions. Nevertheless, as
mentioned above, a continued policy dialogue with the authorities in the key areas of
reform took (and continues to take) place as part of a prospective follow-on operation.
Moreover, a substantive technical assistance program in all relevant policy areas
continues, which will eventually feed into the effective implementation of those polices
to be supported under PRFL2. The Bank and the Ukrainian authorities have monitored
performance based on agreed upon measures as well as the results framework included in
the PRFL1 policy matrix. 8

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

      Rating: Satisfactory.

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and of supervision is rated satisfactory (as
discussed in respective sections above).



8
    Formally, only one ISR was prepared by the Bank team. It was finalized in March 2010.




                                                    15
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

   Rating: Satisfactory.

See (c) below.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

   Rating: Satisfactory.

See (c) below.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

   Rating: Satisfactory.

27. The Government committed to an ambitious reform in a very difficult political
and economic environment. Supported policy actions in PFRL1 required a tight
coordination effort across a number of government institutions as well as consultations
with all branches of the government and other stakeholders. The Bank, the MOF and the
NBU maintained a continuous technical and policy dialogue, complemented by strong
engagement between Bank staff and other relevant government agencies. The
Government would need to reiterate its commitment to the reform agenda by persevering
with efforts to maintain financial sector stability, including by enhancing efforts to
improve the regulatory and supervisory framework.

6. Lessons Learned
PFRL1 offers the following key lessons:

   •   The importance of maintaining a policy dialogue in support of longer-term
       strategic goals, even in a difficult political environment, should be
       highlighted. The alignment of the program with the Government strategy has a
       lot to do with its ownership. Withholding support at a time of political tension
       would have been the easy way out. The PFRL1 was well supported with policy
       actions—all prior actions—that were consistent with international good practices
       of public policy, which were technically and politically difficult reforms. While
       questions remain about the sustainability of the outcomes of these policies,
       continuity in Bank engagement will be nonetheless key in sustaining them.

   •   In hindsight, it would have been useful to include outcomes indicators that
       would allow for a more objective assessment of performance in the short
       term. Specifically, it would have been useful to have allowed for the possibility
       of assessing progress in a short span to properly supervise the project and evaluate
       its impact. Those indicators could have also been usefully linked to more quantitative



                                            16
       benchmarks, with appropriate baselines and more clearly specified timeline for
       implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

See Annex 4.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                         17
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Vitaliy Petrovich Bigdai   Consultant                           ECSPF
Ross Delston               Consultant                           ECSPF
Aurora Ferrari             Service Line Manager                 FFIMS
Sara Gonzalez Flavell      Senior Counsel                       LEGEM
Joaquin G. Gutierrez       Lead Financial Sector Specialist     FFSBK
Aida Japarova              Program Assistant                    ECSPF
Carl-Johan Lindgren        Consultant                           FFSDR
Andrew Lovegrove           Consultant                           ECSPF
Richard Lysakowski         Consultant                           ECSPF
Iryna Nikolayeva           Temporary                            ECCUA
Djurdjica Ognjenovic       Consultant                           ECSPF
Ruslan Piontkivsky         Senior Economist                     ECSP3
Angela Prigozhina          Senior Financial Specialist          ECSF1
Pablo Saavedra             Sr Country Economist                 ECSP3
Viktoria Siryachenko       Senior Country Officer               ECCUA
Victor Sulla               Economist                            ECSP3
Rajeev Kumar Swami         Sr Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
Marius Vismantas           Country Sector Coordinator           ECSF1
Supervision
Jean-Charles De Daruvar    Senior Counsel                       LEGEM
Sara Gonzalez Flavell      Senior Counsel                       LEGEM
Joaquin G. Gutierrez       Lead Financial Sector Specialist     FFSBK
Aida Japarova              Program Assistant                    ECSPF
Hannah M. Koilpillai       Senior Finance Officer               CTRFC
M. Dolores Lopez-Larroy    Lead Financial Officer/Debt Ca        CMD
Iryna Nikolayeva           Temporary                            ECCUA
Ruslan Piontkivsky         Senior Economist                     ECSP3
Angela Prigozhina          Senior Financial Specialist          ECSF1
Pablo Saavedra             Sr Country Economist                 ECSP3
Viktoria Siryachenko       Senior Country Officer               ECCUA
Victor Sulla               Economist                            ECSP3
Rajeev Kumar Swami         Sr Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
Marius Vismantas           Country Sector Coordinator           ECSF1




                                          18
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:                                   Not available.
Supervision/ICR                                                    Not available.
                          Total:                                     857.67




                                       19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                   21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                                        UKRAINE

                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF UKRAINE
                                (MOF)
01008, Kyiv, 12/2 Vulytsia M. Hrushevskoho, Tel. +380 (44) 206-58-88, Fax 425-90-26, e-mail:
                     infomf@.mmfm,gov.ua: EDRPOU code 00013480

No. 31-12230-08-15/9645 of 17 April 2012

To: Mr. Qimiao Fan,
Director, Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova,
Europe and Central Asia,
World Bank
On Draft Implementation Completion and Results Report on the "First Programmatic
Financial Sector Rehabilitation Loan"

Dear Mr. Fan,

The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine expresses its sincere gratitude for the fruitful co-
operation in securing financial support to measures taken by the Government to
overcome the negative consequences of the international finance crisis in the banking
sector and, for instance, for the joint development of the First Programmatic Financial
Sector Rehabilitation Loan project.

The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has reviewed the draft Implementation Completion
and Results Report on the First Programmatic Financial Sector Rehabilitation Loan
(PFRL 1 No. 7780-UA), and encloses its comments herewith.

We are looking forward to the continued fruitful co-operation.

Annex: 2 pages in one copy.

Yours sincerely,
S. RYBAK,
Deputy Minister




                                            22
Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion and Results Report on the
First Programmatic Financial Sector Rehabilitation Loan (PFRL1).

On item 14 of the draft Report:
The stress tests of the banking sector, which had been carried out since late 2008, also
involved the state-owned banks.
For instance, an audit of state-owned banks was carried out in the due diligence format in
late December 2010 in pursuance of the Letter of Commitment of Ukraine to the IMF.
This audit also included the stress tests of the banks' credit portfolios.
Thus, the allegation made in the last sentence of item 14 that "The diagnostic reports to
determine the capital needs of the two state-owned banks were completed only in 2010"
is incorrect and should be deleted.
On items 23 and 24 of the draft Report:
Item 2 of the draft Report specifies three pillars of the banking sector reform program
supported with PFRL1. The first of them is "Banking sector recapitalization and
restructuring";
Item 6 of the draft Report sets out the objectives of the proposed PFRL1;
Item 7 lists monitoring indicators to be used for the measurement of the achievement of
the objectives.
For instance, the monitoring indicators for pillar (i), which should have been used to
measure support with the implementation of a sound banking sector recapitalization
program and the performance of the restructuring process, do not include indicators, such
as the exit of the state from the capital of banks recapitalized by the state.
However, the monitoring indicators, which should have been used to measure the
achievement of objectives under pillar (ii) of PFRL1 "Resolution and Consolidation of
the Banking System", do not call for measures involving the exit of banks recapitalized
by the state from the market.
However, it is alleged in Section 3.2 of the draft Report (in item 23, where conclusions of
the achievement of the program development objectives, for instance, in the course of the
resolution of banks under pillar (ii)) that "Finally, there is no evidence that there is a
clear exit strategy for the prompt exit from state ownership in state-recapitalized banks,
given long delays in adopting relevant legislation and technical measures".
In addition, an allegation is made in item 24 of Section 3.3 of the draft Report (which
provides the justification of the overall outcome rating, for instance, in respect of the
resolution of insolvent banks under pillar (ii)) that "…there is uncertainty being
generated by a perceived lack of expediency in the resolution of banks recapitalized by
the state".
Taking into account pillars and defined objectives of PFRL 1 and monitoring indicators,
which should have been used to measure the achievement of the program objectives, we
believe that the above allegations made in items 23 and 24 of the draft Report are
incorrect and should be deleted, because they are applicable to the outcome of the
achievement of program objectives and the justification of the overall outcome rating
neither under pillar (i), nor under pillar (ii) of PFRL1.




                                            23
On the other hand, we consider it appropriate to soundly object to above allegation that
there is no clear strategy of the exit of the state from the ownership of banks recapitalized
by the state.
-        The Strategy of the Continued Operation of AT Rodovid Bank, AB Ukrgazbank,
PAT AKB Kyiv recapitalized by the state was approved on March 17, 2011, at a meeting
of the Expert Analytical Council on the State Participation in the Recapitalization of
Banks with the participation of representatives of the IMF and the World Bank;
-        the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine developed the draft Law of Ukraine "On
Specific Features of the Sale of State-owned Corporate Rights in Authorized Capitals of
Banks Recapitalized by the State" taking account of recommendations of the IMF and the
World Bank. The law was adopted by the Verkhovna Rada on December 7, 2011, in the
first reading and on March 15, 2012, in the second reading, and submitted to the
President of Ukraine for signing on March 28, 2012.
-        the 2012 National Action Plan on the Implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic
Reform Program "Prosperous Society, Competitive Economy, Efficient State" was
approved with Decree of the President of Ukraine No. 187/2012 of March 12, 2012. One
of the Plan's objectives is to ensure the exit of the state from the capital of banks
recapitalized by the state.




                                             24
(Unofficial translation)

NATIONAL BANK OF UKRAINE
______________________________________________________________________

                                                                     March 30, 2012
                                                                     # 23-102/1143

O.V. Kucherenko
Head of the Directorate
of Cooperation with International
Financial Institutions and Coordination
of International Technical Assistance
The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine


Dear Sir:

        The National Bank of Ukraine has considered the World Bank`s Letter
#2012/3/26-64 of 03.23.2012 concerning the Draft Implementation Completion and
Results Report (ICR) for the Programmatic Financial Rehabilitation Development Policy
Loan 1 (PFRL 1) and, within its competence, provides comments and recommendations
on the related document.

       Paragraph 7 of ICR
        The number of banks (15) about whose liquidation a resolution was adopted,
given in subparagraph 6, do not check with the data in paragraph 12, i.e. 20 banks. It will
be noted that 20 of the banks placed under administration during 2008-2011, had their
banking licenses revoked and liquidation proceedings were initiated against them
(including two of them in 1Q 2012.) Given this, we suggest deleting the figure “15? from
the context of paragraph 7 of ICR.

       Paragraph 12 of ICR
       We suggest changing the words “sold to new private investors? (an inappropriate
phrase) in the last sentence of paragraph 12 for “increased the authorized capital due to
the funds of new investors.?
       Also, the liquidation proceedings against 2 banks of the 20 liquidated banks the
paragraph refers to, were initiated in 2012 (rather than during 2008-11.)

         Paragraph 14 of ICR
         We suggest changing the word “government? in the second sentence of the
paragraph for the acronym “NBU?.
         We consider it necessary to delete the last sentence of this paragraph as something
that is not true. The reports on results of diagnostic study of two state-owned banks,
Ukreximbank and Savings Bank, were provided by the due date, together with other
banks of groups 1 and 2 in which a diagmostic study was conducted in late 2008- early



                                            25
2009 (not to be confused with an audit of state-owned banks as part of due dilligence,
performed in 2010 in the framework of the obligations under the joint IMF standby
program.)

      Item 3, Block 1 of Paragraph 15 of ICR
      We consider it appropriate to note that this item should say about the adoption of
the NBU Board`s resolution, rather than adoption of the regulation.

       Paragraph 21 of ICR
       We disagree with the allegation that “the amount of problem loans (as defined by
the IMF) reaches a very high level of 42 percent.? In the IMF report The Indicators of
Financial Stability, the term “nonperforming loans? is used, whose definition is based
solely on the days in arrears (with the overdue time period for principal and interest
payment being 90 days and more.) Furthermore, it states that this requirement does not
prohibit countries from using more stringent methods in their supervisory activities.

        Ukraine uses more stringent methods in the classification of lending transactions,
specifically the NBU-established requirements to the classification of
“doubtful? and “bad? loan debts are based not only on an assessment of borrower debt
service on the loan, but also on an assessment of the financial position of the borrower
which makes it possible to consider the potential risks that have not yet turned into past
due payments. Falling within the said categories are even those loans on which there is no
delay in payment or the delay is less than 90 days.

        Given the above, we think the percentage of problem loans of banks referred to in
the World Bank`s report is incorrect and does not reflect the amount of problem debts.
The ratio of adversely classified assets to the total assets by which the risk is assessed and
reserve is built up, as defined according to the current criteria of the NBU`s legal and
regulatory documents, is much lower (as of 01.01.2012, across the banking system --
14.7%, as of 03.01.2012 – 15%.) At the same time, the figure defined above is a factor
used by the text of the Draft ICR to provide a number of assumptions, including the
probable need for a new range of recapitalization. In view of this, it is sensible to accept
this clarification for the entire text of the Draft ICR.

        Also, the information in the third sentence of the paragraph to the effect that the
banking sector of Ukraine is still unprofitable, is not correct. During January – February
of this year, banks received income in the amount of UAH1.2 billion (including UAH652
million in January and UAH583 million in February), which is a six-fold rise over the
same period last year.

        Given this, we suggest changing the sentence “also, the sector is still unprofitable?
for “also, the sector returned to profitability just at the beginning of 2012.?

        The last sentence of the paragraph is not quite clear, either; it says about taking
specific measures to implement the principles of transparent restructuring of debt of the
public and businesses.



                                             26
        Under current laws, the relationship between a bank and a borrower is built solely
on contractual principles, and government agencies are prohibited from interfering in the
activities of banks.

    The NBU during financial crisis took action, within its established limits, to promote
the process of restructuring by banks of borrower loan debts, specifically there were
developed:

   •   Recommendations for banks regarding the restructuring of borrower loan debts so
       as to create favorable conditions for the fulfillment buy them of their obligations
       under loans; also, activities were planned to encourage banks to restructure loan
       debts and allow them to avoid a sharp fall in the amount of regulatory capital (the
       NBU Board`s Resolution #328 dated 06.03.2009);
   •   Recommendations for banks` work with borrowing individuals who have debts
       under consumer loans and got into financial trouble, and Instructions for such
       borrowers, so as to create favorable conditions for the fulfillment by borrowing
       individuals of their obligations under consumer loans.

    In view of the above and considering that the last sentence of the paragraph does not
relate contextually to the content of the paragraph, we suggest deleting the sentence.

    Paragraph 22 of ICR
       The capital adequacy value across the sector, indicated in the second sentence of
the paragraph – 18.9%, was registered at the end of 2011, not at the end of November
2011.
       Due to this, we suggest changing the phrase in parentheses “at the end of
November 2011? for the following: “at the end of 2011.?

        Paragraph 23 of ICR
        The three last sentences of paragraph 23 need amending. We suggest in particular:
       - changing the words “the sale of bank Nadra continued 30 months and was
effected following significant concessions from the NBU? in the third sentence of the
paragraph for “the search for new private investors by the provisional administrator of
bank Nadra continued 30 months?;
         - deleting the fourth sentence of the paragraph;
         - amending the fifth sentence of the paragraph as to the lack of clear strategy of
the state`s exit from the capital of recapitalized banks, considering that parliament on
03.15.2012 passed the Law of Ukraine On the Aspects of the Sale of Sate-Owned Shares
in the Authorized Capital of Banks in the Capitalization of Which the State was Involved,
which was submitted to the President of Ukraine for signing on 03.28.2012. The Law
provides, among other things, the engagement of an advisor on the sale of blocks of
shares of banks to develop recommendations for the procedure for the sale, and preparing
the related plan, of blocks of shares of banks, selection of strategic investors, and other
issues concerning the sale of blocks of shares of banks.




                                            27
                                        Sincerely,

                                         (signed)
                                       S.V. Kruglyk
                                  Head of Directorate of
                                Foreign Economic Relations



Copied to: Mr. Qimiao Fan, Director, Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, Europe and
            Central Asia



(Translated by V. Aleksashyn)




                                           28
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    29
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Ukraine. Financial Sector Assessment Update (May 2009).

Ukraine. Program document for the Programmatic Financial Rehabilitation DPL 1 (August 2009).
Report No. 49573-UA.

Ukraine. Ex-Post Evaluation of Exceptional Access Under the 2008 Stand-By Arrangement
(November 2011). IMF Country Report No. 11/235.




                                            30
           This map was produced by                                          25°E                                                                                           30°E                                                                 35°E
           the Map Design Unit of The
           World Bank. The boundaries,
           colors, denominations and
           any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Minsk                                                           USS I AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R US S IA N
           on this map do not imply, on
           the part of The World Bank                                                                                       BELA RUS                                                                                                         FE D E ATI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F E DE R AT I ON
           Group, any judgment on the
           legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                     To
           or any endorsement or              To                                                                                                            Zhlobin
           acceptance of such                Warsaw                                                                                                                                                                                              To
           boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bryansk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UKRAINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  na
                                                        North                                                                                                                                                 Des
                                    To
                                                         orth
                                                         orth
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chernihiv
                                   Warsaw                                Kovel                                      Sarny                                                                                                                                                  To
               POLAND                                                                                                                                                                        CHERNIHIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Orel

                                                                  VOLYN
                                                            Buh


                                                                                                      RIVNE                                                                                                                 SUMY Sumy
                                                              h
                                                              h

                                                                                                                                                    Korosten
                                                                                                                                                                            Kyiv
                                                                      Luts'k                                                                                            Reservoir
                                                                                                        Rivne
                                                                                                                                      ZHYTOMYR
            50°N
                                                                                                                                                                                         KYIV                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Voronezh                           50°N
                        To                                                                                                                                                               (KIEV)                                                                                                                                      To
                      Tarnow                                                                                                          Zhytomyr                                                                                                                                                                                    Voronezh
                                                                                                                                                     D                                                 Dn

                                                                                                           KHMELNYTSKYI
                                                                                                           KHMELNY TSKY I
                                                   L'viv                                                                                                                                                                 PO LTAVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POLTAVA                                            Kharkiv
                                                                                                                                                         ni                      KYIV                       iep
                                                                                                                                                              ep                                                  er




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dn
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dn
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dniep
                                                  LVIV                                 Ternopil'                                                                       er                                                Low
                                                                                                                                                                            Up                         r                                    Poltava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHAR KIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KHARKIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                            Khmel'nyts'kyi                                       lan                                             lan                                                                       LUHA NSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LUHANSK
           SLOVAK                       Ca                            TERNOPIL                                                                                                           d    Cherkasy                                  d
           REPUBLIC                          rp                    Ivano-                                                                         Vinnytsya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kremenchug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sieverodonetsk
                                                  at               Frankivs'k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Do                         one
                                                       hi                                                                                                                          CHERKA SY
                                                                                                                                                                                   CHERKASY                                                                                                net




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kremenchuk                                                                          ts
                                                            a IVANO-
                                                                                 ni                                                                                                                                                                                                              s B
                                                                             D




                                Uzhhorod                                              es
                                                             n                           te   r                                       VINNYTSYA
                                                                                                                                      VI NNYTSYA                                   Uman'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     asin                        Luhans'k
                                                            FRANKIVSK                                                                                 So
                                ZAKARPAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dnipropetrovs'k
                                                                                                                                                           uttth
                                                                                              Chernivtsi                                                                                                                                                                                 DONETSK
                                                                  M
                                                                  M
                                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kirovohrad
                                                                                                                                                               h
                                                                                                                                                               h
                                              Hora Hoverla                                                                                                    Bu
                                                                                                                                                                   h
                                                                  ttt n




                                                 (2061 m)                                                                                                                                    KIROVOHRAD                                 DNIPROPETROVSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DNIPROPET RO VSK                                                 Donets'k
           HUNGARY                                                       CHERNIVTSI
                                                                      s.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kryvyi Rih
                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                 M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zaporizhzhia
                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                      O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nykopol
                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MYKOLA?V
                                                                                                                                       LD




                                 Satu Mare                        25°E                                 To
                                                                                                  Tirgu Mures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kakhov
                                                                                                                                          OV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reservoir




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             let
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mariupol
                                                                                                                                                                       ODESSA
                                                                                                                                                                       OD ESSA                                                                          ZAPORIZHZH IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ZAPORIZHZHIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hu
                             UKRA I N E                                                                                                                                                       Mykolayiv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Melitopol
                                                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Berdiansk
                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         To                                                                                    Kherson
                                                                                                                             Birlad
                               OBLAST CAPITALS                                                                                                                                            Odessa                         KHERSON                                                   Sea
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CAPITAL
                                                                                                   ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                          of                                R US S I AN
                               MUNICIPALITIES
                               (CITIES WITH SPECIAL STATUS)                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Azov                            F E DE R AT I ON
                                                                                                                             Tecuci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kerch
                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   Izmail               Vilkova
                               RIVERS                                                                                To                                                                                                              CRIMEA                                                                                                  45°N
                                                                                                                  Buzau                                                                                            Yevpatoriia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Teodosiia                                                   To
                               MAIN ROADS                                                           45°N                                                                                                                                                                                                          Armavir
                                                                                                                                                                        Mouths of                                              Simferopol’
                               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                the Danube                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sevastopol                                                                                       Sochi
                               OBLAST BOUNDARIES                                                                                         To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33505R
                                                                                                                                       Medgidia                                                                                                  Yalta            0       50       100       150 Kilometers
                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                 Blac k                     Sea
MAY 2009




                               BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0              50              100              150 Miles
                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 30°E                                                                                 35°E
                                                                                                   BULGARIA
