Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  49466 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Financial Rehabilitation Loan 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Banking (100%) 
Project ID 
P115143 
Borrower(s) 
UKRAINE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 16, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 30, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 28, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The project aims at restoring financial sector stability in the country. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objectives of the proposed Programmatic Financial Sector Rehabilitation Loan (PFRL) are to: 
(i) support a sound recapitalization process using public funding, (ii) consolidate the banking sector 
by enhancing the resolution framework, and (iii) strengthen the deposit insurance payout functions. 
This will in turn contribute to restoring financial sector stability. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed PFRL is the first of a series of two programmatic development loans designed to 
support a multi-year program of assistance to Ukraine to address the effects of the financial sector 
crisis. The first PFRL is expected to be withdrawn in a single tranche of USD 400 million. 
 
The first PFRL focuses on policy actions addressing the immediate needs to stabilize the financial 
sector and to restructure/consolidate the banking sector to enhance long term stability.  The first 
policy operation will focus on the recapitalization process with public funds, resolution process and 
strengthening of the pay out functions of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Specific actions under the proposed PFRL operation are not expected to have any significant 
negative effect on the environment.  The specific country policies supported by the PFRL are not 
likely to cause significant effects on the country’s environment and natural resources.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
400 
 Total 
400 
Page  2
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Aurora Ferrari 
Title: Sr Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-3547 
Fax: (202) 522-3687 
Email: aferrari@worldbank.org
 
