                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00002560



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-96197)



                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF SOUTH SUDAN

                                     FOR A

                 WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT



                                  June 27, 2013




Urban Development and Services Practice 1 (AFTU1)
Country Department AFCE4
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2013)

               Currency Unit = South Sudanese Pound (SSP)
                             1.00 = US$ 0.23
                          US$ 1.00 = 4.41 SSP

                            FISCAL YEAR


ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CF       Counterpart Fund
CPA      Comprehensive Peace Agreement
DWSS     Directorate of Water Supply and Sanitation
ESMP     Environmental and Social Management Framework
FM       Financial Management
FPP      Final Project Proposal
GA       Grant Agreement
GoS       Government of Sudan
GOSS     Government of South Sudan
GPS      Geographical Positioning System
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced People
JAM      Joint Assessment Mission
KAP      Knowledge, Attitude and Practices
KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MCRD     Ministry of Cooperatives and Rural Development
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MDTF     Multi Donor Trust Fund
MDTF-S   Multi Donor Trust Fund - South
MHLPU    Ministry of Housing, Land and Public Utilities
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOFEP    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MoH      Ministry of Health
MTR      Mid-Term Review
MWRI     Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
OA       Operation Account
OC       Oversight Committee
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PFMU       Project Finance Management Unit
PIM        Project Implementation Manual
PMT        Project Management Team
QAE        Quality at Entry
RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
RSS        Republic of South Sudan
RVP        Regional Vice President
RWSSP      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
SMCRD      State Ministry of Cooperatives and Rural Development
SMENR      State Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
SMHPU      State Ministry of Housing and Public Utilities
SMPI       State Ministry of Physical Infrastructure
SPLM       Sudan People’s Liberation Movement
SS         Southern Sudan
SSWICH     Southern Sudan Water Information Clearing House
SSWSSC     South Sudan WASH Sector Steering Committee
SWDS       Small Water Distribution System
TA         Technical Assistance
TAST       Technical Assistance Support Team
TS         Technical Secretariat
TTL        Task Team leader
UN         United Nations
UNICEF     United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID      United States Aid for International Development
WASH       Water, Sanitation and Hygiene
WB         World Bank
WSS        Water Supply and Sanitation
WSSP       Water Supply and Sanitation Project




         Vice President:               Makhtar Diop
         Country Director:             Bella Deborah Mary Bird
         Sector Director:              Jamal Saghir
         Sector Manager:               Rosemary Mukami Kariuki
         Project Team Leader:          Tesfaye Bekalu
         ICR Primary Author:           Sanyu Lutalo
                               COUNTRY: SOUTH SUDAN
                    Project Name: WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION



CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 36
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 60
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 62

MAP

IBRD 40033
A. Basic Information
                                                                   Southern Sudan -
Country:               South Sudan            Project Name:        Water Supply and
                                                                   Sanitation Project
Project ID:            P111061                L/C/TF Number(s):    TF-96197
ICR Date:              06/27/2013             ICR Type:            Core ICR
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument: ERL                       Grantee:             SOUTHERN
                                                                   SUDAN
Original Total
                     USD 30.0M           Disbursed Amount: USD 29.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      USD 30.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Water Resources & Irrigation
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Multi-Donor Trust Fund – South Sudan


B. Key Dates
                                                                         Revised / Actual
    Process             Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept
                   08/12/2008        Effectiveness:                        05/07/2010
Review:
                                                                           07/21/2011
Appraisal:         09/15/2009        Restructuring(s):
                                                                           08/15/2012
                                     Mid-term
Approval:          01/22/2010                             10/10/2011       11/14/2011
                                     Review:
                                     Closing:             06/30/2011       12/31/2012


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                          Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by IC R)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                    Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:         Not Applicable
                    Unsatisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing
                    Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank        Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                           Satisfactory
Performance:        Satisfactory       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                              Rating
     Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                         Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                                None
                                         (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                  Quality of
                         Yes                                None
time (Yes/No):                           Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                      Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
                                                        28                28
protection
Sanitation                                              18                18
Water supply                                            54                54



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Water resource management                                100              100

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                   At ICR                     At Approval
Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                 Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:       Bella Deborah Mary Bird      Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:         Rosemary Mukami Kariuki      Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:    Tesfaye Bekalu Wondem        Tesfaye Bekalu
ICR Team Leader:        Sanyu Lutalo
ICR Primary Author:     Sanyu Lutalo
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal1 Document)
The original project development objective, as stated in the Project Proposal was, "To
increase access to safe water supply and sanitation in all states by building a sustainable
management system and developing the knowledge on water resources in Southern
Sudan."

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
As part of the project restructuring in June 2012, the Project Development Objective was
revised to read, "To increase access to safe water supply and sanitation in all states of
South Sudan."

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                          Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                             approval        Target      Completion or
                                           documents)        Values       Target Years
                Original PDO Indicator: Direct project beneficiaries (number) of which
                female (%)
Indicator 1 :
                Revised PDO Indicator 1: Direct project beneficiaries (number) of which
                female are 50%
Value
quantitative or 0                       662,000          395,500        416,500
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                06/30/2011       12/31/2012 12/31/2012
                The target was substantially achieved. Considering the revised PDO, the
                outcome target was exceeded (105.3%). However, the aggregated2 %
Comments
                achievement considering the original and revised outcome targets was
(incl. %
                84.6%. More than 50.3 % of the beneficiaries are estimated to be female,
achievement)
                based on demographics in South Sudan.

                   People with access to improved sanitation in rural areas under the project
Indicator 2 :
                   (number). This indicator was not changed.
Value
                0                              25,000              25,000          22,500
quantitative or


1
    The Project Proposal Document was the official appraisal document for the MDTF grant.

2
  The methodology for calculating the aggregated achievement considers the individual outcome indicators,
based on weightings of achievement of the original and revised outcomes in proportion to the
disbursements before and after the PDO restructuring (49% and 51%, respectively).
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                 06/30/2011        12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The sanitation target was substantially (90 %) achieved.
achievement)
                People with access to improved water sources in rural areas under the
Indicator 3 :
                project
Value
quantitative or 0                        637,000           370,500       394,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                 06/30/2011        12/31/2012 12/31/2012
                The target was exceeded based on the revised target (106.3 %). However,
Comments
                the aggregated % achievement based on the original and revised outcome
(incl. %
                targets was only partially achieved (84.6%).
achievement)
                Targeted community water points with an established Water Committee
Indicator 4 : and O&M plan in place (%). The indicator was corrected to reflect
                'Number' rather than '%' as a measurement unit.
Value
quantitative or 0                       1140               620           586
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                06/30/2011         12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The revised target was substantially achieved (95%).
achievement)
                Water Resources Assessment carried out and published (Yes/No) - this
Indicator 5 :
                indicator was dropped as part of restructuring.
Value
quantitative or No                      Yes                No            No
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                06/30/2011         12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        This target was removed as part of the project restructuring.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                   Original Target Formally           Actual Value
                                    Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
  Indicator       Baseline Value
                                       approval         Target       Completion or
                                     documents)         Values        Target Years
              Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the
Indicator 1 :
              project (number)
Value         0                   1140               620           620
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                  06/30/2011        12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments        The revised target was fully achieved. However, the original target was
(incl. %        only 54% achieved, which reflects the significant scaling down of outputs
achievement) following the project restructuring.
Indicator 2 : Improved latrines constructed under the project (number)
Value
(quantitative 0                           50                10             9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                  06/30/2011        12/31/2012 12/31/2012
                The revised target was substantially achieved (90%), however final
Comments
                outputs represented only 18% of the original target, reflecting the
(incl. %
                significant scaling down of activities due to the significant price
achievement)
                escalations during implementation.
                Number of people trained to improve hygiene behavior or sanitation
Indicator 3 :
                practices under the project.
Value
(quantitative 0                           3881              4340           4165
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                  06/30/2011        12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments        The revised target was substantially achieved (96%, although the original
(incl. %        target was in this case exceeded (107%)). The trainees primarily comprise
achievement) Water Committee members from all sites.
                Water Quality laboratories established in the State capitals and
Indicator 4 :
                functioning (number)
Value
(quantitative 0                           10                N/A            10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                  06/30/2011        12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The target was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Staff trained in specific topics (number)
Value
(quantitative 0                           253               253            333
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                  06/30/2011        12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The target was exceeded (131%).
achievement)
Indicator 6 : WSSD offices constructed/rehabilitated and equipped (number)
Value
                0                         10                10             10
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                06/30/2011       12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        The target was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Training center constructed, rehabilitated and equipped.
Value
(quantitative 0                         1                N/A           1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2009                06/30/2011       12/31/2012 12/31/2012
Comments
                Construction and rehabilitation of the Amadi Training Center was fully
(incl. %
                completed.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                        IP             Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    05/27/2010     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        2.00
  2    12/10/2010     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        2.00
  3    05/02/2011     Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 2.28
  4    08/24/2011 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 3.89
                       Moderately
  5    03/13/2012                         Moderately Satisfactory                  9.46
                     Unsatisfactory
  6     03/30/13 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  29.78


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board        at       Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring
               Approved Restructuring Restructuring
   Date(s)                                             & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change                 in USD
                         DO      IP
                                        millions
                                                    To extend the project
                                                    closing date by one year
                                                    from June 30, 2011 to June
                                                    30, 2012, to make up for
 07/21/2011       N       S     MS          3.04
                                                    the substantial time lost as
                                                    a result of the slow start of
                                                    activities in the first year.
                         ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board        at       Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring
               Approved Restructuring Restructuring
   Date(s)                                             & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change                 in USD
                         DO      IP
                                        millions
                                                    To extend the project
                                                    closing date by six months
                                                    to December 31, 2012, to
                                                    allow for completion of
 06/28/2012       N      MU     MS         17.86    project activities and to
                                                    rationalize the PDO
                                                    outcomes and outputs that
                                                    are achievable by the new
                                                    closing date.


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background: The Republic of South Sudan became the world’s newest nation in July
2011, after a peaceful referendum held in January 2011. The referendum was foreseen as part of
the so called Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) signed in January 2005 by the
Government of the Republic of the Sudan and then southern-based rebel group, the Sudan
People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM), after about two decades of conflict. The CPA created a
basis for lasting peace and economic development, and called for a referendum on the political
and economic future of Southern Sudan after a six year interim period. The CPA presented a
unique opportunity for the Sudanese people to break the circle of conflict, build basic services
and institutions, and set the country on the path to development and prosperity.

Coming out of civil war, the new GoSS, like many other fragile and/or post conflict States (FPS),
faced tremendous development challenges from the outset, including, inter-alia, a virtual lack of
government structures and institutions, a severe lack of basic infrastructure and services, limited
human and institutional capacity, and a weak economic base. In March 2005, the United Nations,
the World Bank, the Government of Sudan, and the SPLM conducted a Joint Assessment
Mission (JAM) and prepared a report presenting the reconstruction and development
requirements for the consolidation of peace, and for attaining broad based growth, poverty
reduction, and sustained human development aligned towards the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). The JAM highlighted some of critical sector background issues and identified
priorities for intervention.

Sector Background: The Republic of South Sudan is blessed with abundant water resources.
However, most of these resources are unevenly distributed across the country, and are affected
by wide seasonal variations. As a result of the difficult political and economic situation
experienced in the country, available water resources were not adequately harnessed for delivery
of safe water supply and sanitation (WSS) services to most of the population. According to the
Joint Assessment Mission 3 (JAM) findings, about 75 percent of the rural population and 70
percent of the urban population of then Southern Sudan lacked access to safe water. Most of the
existing water supply facilities were in very poor condition due to lack of maintenance, and
water consumption was as low as 6 litres per capita per day, representing only about 30 percent
of the recommended 20 liters per capita per day. Access to adequate sanitation facilities was
estimated at around 30 percent, 60 percent in urban areas and much lower in rural areas. About
50 percent of existing primary schools and health centers lacked access to safe water supply and
sanitation (WSS) services, and the general level of hygiene awareness was low. The incidence of
waterborne diseases in Southern Sudan was high, and the country had the highest recorded


3
  The JAM report prepared in March 2005 by the United Nations, the World Bank, the Government of Sudan, and
the SPLM presented the reconstruction and development requirements for the consolidation of peace and for
attaining broad based growth, poverty reduction, and sustained human development towards the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs).



                                                    1
incidence of Guinea Worm infection in the world. The dire situation in the sector was
compounded by the fact that South Sudan was just beginning the process of building its own
institutions and capacity for management of WSS. The sector was standing on very weak
structures and there was no reliable information on the sector.

Institutional Structure: At the time the project was appraised, the then newly established
Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI), established in 2006, was responsible for
overall strategy development around integrated management of water resources, drinking water,
and irrigation at the national level. Local communities were charged with responsibility for
operation and maintenance of WSS services at the community level. The MWRI however faced
capacity constraints and needed strengthening to effectively carry out both its role as the key
project implementing agency, and as the agency responsible for overall sector oversight to ensure
sustainable delivery of WSS services. Prior to this, assistance to the WSS sector was delivered
through a large number of agencies, primarily outside of state institutions and systems. Key
players included humanitarian agencies such as UNICEF, Save the Children Fund, and other
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). These agencies remain major players in the sector.

Government Strategy and Project Intervention: The GoSS’s first priority at the time when the
project was appraised was the establishment of government administrative structures,
rehabilitation of key infrastructure, and delivery of basic services, including water supply and
sanitation. Addressing the dire WSS situation was seen as a priority in addressing the serious
post conflict challenges in South Sudan. Moreover, in light of the key role water plays in conflict
mitigation, delivery of water services was seen as an important benchmark offering a highly
visible sign of progress and a tangible peace dividend.

The Multi-Donor Trust Fund: The CPA called for the creation of two Multi-Donor Trust Funds
to finance Sudan’s enormous development needs; the first (the Sudan National Multi-Donor
Trust Fund - MDTF-N) for the National (Sudan), and the second (the Multi-Donor Trust Fund
for Southern Sudan - MDTF-SS) for the GoSS. The MDTF-SS was governed through a three tier
structure: (i) a high level political forum to monitor and support CPA implementation and
provide international political support to the process, including resource mobilization; (ii) a
governance body, the Oversight Committee (OC), co-chaired by the Minister of Finance and
Economic Planning (MoFEP) and the Joint Donor Office, which brought together the principal
national and international stakeholders, to provide strategic guidance, make allocation decisions,
oversee Fund operations, and mobilize resources; and (iii) an Administrator and Technical
Secretariat (TS), the World Bank, to manage Fund operations, including responsibility for
fiduciary and technical appraisal and review of projects. The Bank’s role as the MDTF
administrator was approved by its Board of Executive Directors (the Board), but the project was
approved by the OC rather than the Board. The OC approved the work plan and budgets for the
Technical Secretariat, and reviewed audit reports and quarterly progress reports. However any
approvals that were required from the Bank side were handled at the Country Director level or at
a lower level. The multi-level governance structure for the project, compared with projects
processed through regular Bank procedures, added an extra layer of approvals for critical
decisions such as reallocation of resources and restructuring, which increased the risk of
additional processing and implementation delays.




                                                2
Project Background: The current Project was structured as the second Phase of interventions
financed from the MDTF in the water sector, following a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (RWSSP) in the amount of US$30 million. The RWSSP was approved in September
2006 and became effective in February 2007. The RWSS registered substantial achievements,
including improved access to safe water supplies for about 639,250 people. A 2010 Knowledge
Attitude and Practices (KAP) study showed that access to safe water supply increased from 14
percent in 2005 to 34 percent by 2010. Similarly, a 2010 report on Guinea Worm Prevalence in
South Sudan showed a significant reduction in guinea worm incidence from 20,581 in 2006 to
1,686 in 2010, indicating a 92 percent reduction in the country. These achievements were
attributable to this project and other ongoing water and sanitation interventions during the period.
These achievements notwithstanding, significant sector challenges remained, and a second phase
of interventions was planned.

The follow up Phase of the WSS program was initially envisaged to comprise two separate
projects that were to have been implemented in parallel; (i) a Second Rural Water Supply Project
for US$56 million that was to scale up activities under the first phase (RWSS) and support
assessment of the water resources in Southern Sudan, and (ii) an Urban Water Supply and
Sanitation Project covering seven state capitals, for US$97.65 million. However, due to funding
constraints triggered by the global financial crisis and constraints of GoSS, the MDTF Oversight
Committee reduced the allocation to the entire WSS sector to US$30 million. The water
program was subsequently modified to form the current project, which covered water supply and
sanitation services in rural, urban, and peri-urban areas across all ten states of South Sudan. The
Project was approved by the MDTF-SS Oversight Committee on December 16, 2009 and
became effective on May 7, 2010, with an official closing date of June 30, 20114.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: The Bank is one of the largest international development
institutions active in the water sector in South Sudan, and was a central donor of the MDTF. It
was appointed as Administrator for the Trust Fund given its comparative advantage managing
multi-donor trust funds and its experience managing operations in post conflict States. The
project was seen as a continuum of interventions to improve WSS service delivery in South
Sudan, building upon the achievements of the first project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The original development objective of the project was: To increase access to safe water supply
and sanitation in all states by building a sustainable management system and developing the
knowledge on water resources in Southern Sudan. The key performance indicators defined in the
Final Project Proposal 5 (FPP) to measure progress towards achieving the objectives were the
following:



4
  The Closing Date, as explained later in the text, was subsequently extended twice through formal restructurings, to
June 30, 2012 and ultimately to December 31, 2012.

5
    The Final Project Proposal (FPP) was the official project appraisal document for the grant.




                                                            3
    •   Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which female (%)
    •   People with access to “Improved Sanitation? in rural areas under the project (number)
    •   People with access to “Improved Water Sources? in rural areas under the project
        (number)
    •   Targeted community water points with an established Water committee and community
        O&M Plan in place (%).
    •   Water resources assessment carried out and published (Yes/No)

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was revised through a first level project restructuring approved6 on June 28, 2012 by
the Africa Regional Vice President (RVP), to read as follows: “To increase access to water
supply and sanitation in all states of South Sudan?.

The rationale for the PDO revision was primarily to reflect a scaling down of project activities
following cancellation of a critical activity directly linked to achievement of part of the PDO:
Design of a Hydro-Meteorological Information System (HIS), originally envisaged under
Component 3 of the project. The HIS was supposed to have constituted the main activity under
the project to achieve the second aspect of the PDO, “developing the knowledge on water
resources in South Sudan?. The decision to cancel this activity was made during the Mid-term
Review (MTR), following a prolonged deliberative discussion between the Bank and the
Government, which considered after review of the Procurement Plan, that it would be impossible
to complete implementation of the activity in a timely manner, in light of the existing time and
capacity constraints. There was a delay however in securing the official agreement of all parties
(all who have contributed to the MDTF and the government of South Sudan) to the restructuring
in a timely manner. Resources were subsequently reallocated to other activities that were
considered more likely to be completed in time. Relevant key performance indicators were
accordingly revised as shown in Table 1.1 below to reflect the revised PDO. This issue is further
elaborated in Section 1.7 below.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The FPP described several project beneficiaries. Primary target groups included the population in
rural areas, villages, and trading centers in all States of South Sudan, including internally
displaced people (IDPs) and returnees to South Sudan after the war, who would directly benefit
from improved access to water supply through the project. Direct beneficiaries from the
sanitation and hygiene improvements included the populations at targeted institutions such as
schools, health centers, and public places where these interventions were planned. Finally,


6
  The RVP’s approval was required as part of internal Bank administrative procedures for managing the project, and
at the time was conditional upon extension of the Parent MDTF, which had been held up by the Oversight
Committee (OC). Once the Parent MDTF was extended by the OC, official notification and amendment of relevant
legal documentation was effected.



                                                        4
national and state institutions such as MRCD, MWRI, and State water departments were to
directly benefit from capacity building, including through provision of training and knowledge,
equipment and facilities, introduction of management systems for activities such as monitoring,
billing and collection systems for water operations, and other resources financed through the
project, resulting in enhanced capacity and effectiveness in management of water and sanitation
services across the country.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had the following components.

Component 1 - Water Supply (US$13.20 or 44 percent of the total cost): This component
was to finance 90 new boreholes; rehabilitation of 1050 existing boreholes; and a variety of other
schemes (including 20 hand-dug wells, 20 new and 13 rehabilitation of small water supply
distribution systems, 2 haffirs (surface open water reservoirs), 1 water distribution system with
treatment, and 6 spring protection systems. In addition, this component would finance the
assessments, feasibility studies, and design of water supply and sanitation systems for 7 state
capitals (Bor, Rumbek, Yambio, Torit, Kuacjok, Aweil, and Bentiu). The focus was to be on
previously neglected areas identified from the MWRI database and in response to requests
received from County and State authorities.

Component 2 - Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion (US$5.33 million or 17.8 percent of the
project cost): This component comprised the introduction of sanitation facilities and promotion
of the concept of Community Lead Total Sanitation. The focus would continue to be on
household, environmental, and institutional sanitation, both in the rural and urban areas, such as
in a number of public places, including schools, health facilities, markets and bus parks, and
provision of equipment for sewage removal and disposal, with emphasis on effective delivery of
key hygiene messages to effect behavioral change. MWRI was to work more closely with MoH
and MoEST before contracting institutional latrines at health centers and schools to ensure
facilities were built where they were really needed and to avoid duplication. VIP type latrines
would be promoted for those who could afford to build them, and unsustainable subsidies would
be discouraged.

Component 3 - Water Resources Technical Support Promotion (US$2.40 million or 8
percent of the project cost): This component comprised development of knowledge based
WRM activities, in view of the prevailing conspicuous lack of accessible data on the water
resources of Southern Sudan. This was to provide technical assistance for designing a water
information system for the water resources (surface and ground water) assessment in Southern
Sudan to enable collection of much-needed information on the country’s water resources and
development of guidelines on future activities. Establishment and equipping of water quality
laboratories in state capitals including training of staff was also one of the main activities under
this component.

Component 4 - Capacity Building (US$4.67 million or 15.6 percent of the project cost): This
component aimed to build the capacity of staff, giving emphasis to gender balanced selection of
staff at the central and state levels, in the management, monitoring, operation, and maintenance
of rural and urban water and sanitation utilities. The component would also provide for


                                                 5
improvement of office space, provision of vehicles, office equipment, and furniture, acquisition
of billing and collection systems for the water operations and the rehabilitation of Amadi Rural
Development Institute. The capacity building would also include on the job training of local
staff by consultants during the feasibility study, design, and construction phases.

Component 5 - Project Management Support and Strengthening MIS/Data Base (US$3.38
million or 11.3 percent of the project cost): This component included the technical support
provided to the Project Management Team (PMT), the operating expenses of the project, and a
continuation of the establishment and strengthening of the database for water supply that was
started under Phase I. The PMT would be supported by a Technical Assistance Support Team
(TAST), which was designed to help strengthen implementation capacity. Under Phase I, a
prototype Management Information System (MIS) and water supply database was developed and
staff were trained on its structure and how to input data. Provision of technical support for
further effective use of the system and setting up a network to connect all the departments in
MWRI including the 10 state directorates, were to be important activities under this component.

1.6 Revised Components

During the project’s Mid-term review (MTR) conducted in October 2011, the project
components were revised as follows:

Revision of Component 2: Two activities identified under the Sanitation Component were
deemed to require a more detailed study and clarification of institutional responsibilities within
the government and the Component revised. These were: (i) construction of oxidation ponds in 5
State capitals, excluding Juba; and (ii) provision of vacuum trucks and backhoes to handle
septage. MWRI decided instead to carry out preparatory work for these activities, including
design and Environmental Impact Assessment studies, deferring the construction and
procurement of goods for a later intervention. A decision was made to reallocate part of the
resources under this component to other activities that could reasonably be completed in the
available time.

Component 3: Cancellation of the HIS activity: As discussed under the section on Revised PDO
above, the consultancy for the design of the Hydro-Meteorological System estimated at US$1.2
million was cancelled at the request of the Government. The funds freed up by cancelling of this
activity were reallocated to other activities, including construction of Haffirs (open water
harvesting structures).

1.7 Other significant changes

The project underwent several other significant changes which were facilitated through two
formal restructurings conducted during implementation. These are outlined below.

(i)   Extensions of the project closing date: The first restructuring, approved on June 14, 2011,
      involved an extension of the project closing date by one year from June 30, 2011 to June
      30, 2012, to make up for the substantial time lost as a result of the slow start of activities in
      the first year of implementation. During that restructuring the PDO remained unchanged.


                                                  6
        However, the Project’s Results Framework was adjusted to align with the timeframe of the
        proposed extension. The second restructuring, approved on June 28, 2012, involved
        extension of the project closing date by an additional six months from June 30, 2012 to
        December 30, 2012, resulting in an overall eighteen month extension for the project.

(ii)    Revision of the PDO: The PDO as mentioned above was revised during the June 2012
        restructuring, six months before the closing date, to read as stated in Section 1.3 above.

(iii) Revision of the Results Framework and Targets: The Results Framework was revised to
      align targets with the revised PDO. Specific changes involved; (a) deletion of one of the
      project outcome/result indicators “Water resources assessment carried out and published?;
      (b) change of the unit of measure for the indicator “Targeted water community points with
      an established water committee? from “percentage? to “number?; and (c) a scale down of
      the output targets for certain indicators as shown in Table 1.1. The change in the end
      targets reflected two main issues. First, it reflected a reduction in the number of boreholes
      to be installed through the project due to a failure to attract responsive contractors in certain
      project areas. Second, it reflected a substantial scaling down of investments due to cost
      overruns driven by price escalations during implementation brought about by security and
      market concerns.


             Table 1.1: Summary of revised outcome indicators (June 2012)
 # Project Outcome Indicators                    Original project Revised project %
                                                 end date target end target       change
 1     Direct project beneficiaries (number), of    662,000          419,000         36.7
       which female are 50%
 2     People in project areas with improved        25,000           25,000
       access to sanitation facilities. (number)
 3     People in project areas with improved        637,000          394,000         28.1
       access to water sources (number)
 4     Targeted Water Community Points with         1140             620             46.6
       an established Water Committee and
       O&M plan in place (number)
 5     Water resources assessment carried out       Yes              No
       and published (yes/no)

(iv) Reallocation of project funds: Project funds were reallocated by Component and Category
     as shown in Tables 1.2 and 1.3, respectively, in response to price escalations and revisions
     to the scope of activities/components, including cancellation of the Hydro-Meteorological
     Information System (HIS), changes to Component 2, and the client’s decision to finance
     the construction of Haffir (an open water harvesting structure) in Jonglei as a conflict




                                                  7
     mitigation measure. This required revisiting of the allocation between categories and use of
     part of the operating cost, whose initial estimate was relatively high.

                            Table 1.2: Reallocations by Component
                                                      Project Costs (US$m.)
      Components/Activities                           Original        Revised
      Component 1:Water Supply Services               13,202,000      15,083,432
      Component 2: Sanitation                         5,325,000       773,213
      Component 3: Water Resource Management          2,400,000       3,327,305
      Component 4: Capacity Building                  4,673,600       5,136,860
      Component 5: Project Management Support         3,380,000       5,240,109
      Contingencies                                   1,019,400       439,081
      Total                                           30,000,000      30,000,000

                             Table 1.3: Reallocations by Category
            Category of Expenditure                  Allocation           % of Financing

         Current             Revised       Original   Revised Original Revised
         1) Goods,           1) Goods,    13,448,000 13,233,136 100%    100%
          Services,           Services,
        Workshops and       Workshops and
          Training            Training

           2) Works            2) Works       15,572,000 16,286,864      100%      100%

         3) Operating        3) Operating       980,000      480,000     100%      100%
            Costs               Costs

           TOTAL                TOTAL         30,000,000 30,000,000



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The context within which the project was prepared should be an integral part of the analysis of
factors affecting implementation and outcomes. The project was prepared while South Sudan
was just emerging from conflict, and restoring basic services, including water supply and
sanitation were considered an integral part of the ‘peace dividends’ for the country. The political
uncertainties experienced during this period were further complicated by the emerging




                                                8
government administrative structures and institutions, lack of basic infrastructure, and a weak
economic base which was compounded by the global financial7 crisis.

The project was processed in accordance with the Bank’s OP 8.0 (Emergency Recovery), which
allows for expedited processing procedures from project initiation through approval. This
allowed the project to be prepared over a period of just eight months. The project used the
established Project Implementing Unit (PMU) within the Ministry of Water Resources and
Irrigation (MWRI) which had some experience in implementing projects under similar
arrangements from the first RWSP.

Soundness of Background Analysis and Strategic Context: The project preparation process, as
reflected in the Project Proposal Document and other documents, reflected a sound
understanding of the fundamental challenges facing South Sudan in developing and delivering
adequate water supply and sanitation services to its people. The project supported the
Government’s sector development priorities and goals for nation building, conflict prevention,
and bringing about a process of rapid economic development to reduce poverty. Project design
drew upon global best practices and preliminary lessons and experience with water supply and
sanitation projects in South Sudan and elsewhere.

Assessment of Project Design: Overall, the PDO responded directly to South Sudan’s
development priorities for the water sector. The project components were generally well
structured, and activities were designed to contribute to achievement of the objectives. In
hindsight however, the project design had several shortcomings: (i) the original PDO and scope
of activities and targets were too ambitious considering the prevailing difficulties associated with
the post-conflict environment, including the limited capacity, security concerns, and other
challenges facing in South Sudan; (ii) the broad geographical dispersion of the project area –
covering all ten states of South Sudan, some of which faced logistic challenges such as
constrained access to sites due to poor infrastructure and security concerns, and the added
administrative burden of engaging and implementing the project with officials from ten States,
added to the implementation complexity; and (iii) the multi-focal nature of the interventions –
focusing on both water supply and sanitation issues in rural and urban areas, as well as on water
resources management issues in one project – added to the complexity. The Government and the
team recognized these shortcomings during implementation and restructured the project to reflect
a more realistic PDO and targets, thereby sustaining design relevance. Despite the overall
eighteen month extension cumulatively afforded the project through the restructuring, the risk of
not completing some of the activities envisaged in the Procurement Plan in a timely manner
remained significant throughout implementation.

Project Preparation and Implementation Timeframe: The project was prepared within a space
of just eight months, largely driven by the Parent MDTF’s then impending closing date.
Notwithstanding the fact that the project was processed and implemented under OP 8.50, this
timeframe was not sufficient to prepare implementation ready activities, and the project was


7
  South Sudan’s economic base was affected by the crude oil crisis which saw the country’s revenues fall
substantially.



                                                   9
approved before technically completing preparation of many project activities. As a result, the
first year of what was originally approved as an eighteen month implementation period was spent
completing procurement, design, and other preparatory activities. Likewise, project
implementation over the originally envisaged eighteen month period, was unrealistic. It too was
apparently driven by the Parent MDTF’s closing date of June 30, 2011. While ideally, the scope
of activities could have been reduced to make implementation more realistic within that
timeframe, there were indications of the likelihood of an extension of the MDTF’s closing date.
Initially, an extension of the MDTF by one year had been foreseen, but a decision on the matter
was deferred for a while in view of the uncertainties at the time surrounding the upcoming
Referendum in January 2011. After the Referendum, the MDTF extension was granted, allowing
the project closing date to be extended accordingly. The team constantly flagged the issue of the
time constraints faced by the project, both as a risk in the Project Proposal and throughout
implementation.

Adequacy of Government Commitment: The Government of South Sudan was fully committed
to the project and it ensured that adequate implementation arrangements were put in place to
manage project implementation. After the MTR, for instance, the MWRI was able to mobilize,
facilitate, and assign a team of local engineers to support project supervision and contract
administration activities in all States, to expedite implementation. There was also a reasonable
degree of State participation in the project. Biannual meetings were to be held to allow MRWI
and the States to coordinate their policies. An M&E team would also visit each of the States on a
regular basis to monitor project implementation.

Assessment of Risks: Key risks threatening the project were recognized during project
preparation and adequately rated in the Project Proposal. Unfortunately, some of the identified
mitigation measures turned out to be insufficient to fully address the risks, resulting in
implementation delays, significant cost overruns, and other challenges outlined under the section
on Implementation below. For instance, the 3 percent contingency amount built into the project
to mitigate the risk of cost overruns proved to be inadequate in light of the 30-230 percent price
escalations experienced.

2.2 Implementation

The project faced numerous challenges that affected its outcomes over the course of
implementation. The ICR affords substantial attention to the challenges faced during
implementation to give the reader a greater appreciation of the tremendous efforts required on
various fronts to achieve the results achieved in the prevailing context. Some key issues are
highlighted below.

Implementation Capacity: The limited number of experienced and qualified staff at all levels to
supervise project implementation and operation affected project implementation. Although the
project did provide qualified consultants to support implementation, and the consultants were
expected to transfer their skills, knowledge, and experience, it was difficult to hire sufficient
local counterpart staff to be attached to the consultants. The capacity issues were compounded by
the overall lack of facilities and infrastructure, especially at the State and community levels.
Technical support for direct supervision of the project was provided at the Federal MWRI level.



                                               10
Support at the State and community levels was however limited. The project did provide good
support in form of capacity building in terms of training, goods and equipment, vehicles and
other facilities for the longer-term management of the sector. These measures were an important
first step. The challenge is to ensure that support to the sector will be sustained.

Implementation Timeframe: The original timeframe between the approval date and the grant
closing was only seventeen months, which as mentioned earlier, was grossly inadequate. This
timeframe was reduced further to thirteen months because the project experienced a delay in
achieving the conditions of effectiveness, in part due to capacity constraints in preparing the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework, which was a condition of effectiveness for the
project. The first twelve months of implementation were largely used to complete project
preparatory activities and procurement, not unexpectedly given the limited preparation time.
Procurement of most contracts did not mature until June to September 2011, and contracts were
only signed after that. The high profile Referendum held in South Sudan in January 2011 and
the associated euphoria also appears to have somewhat affected the focus of the PMT, slowing
down overall implementation progress during that period. The need for additional time to
complete the activities under the project was recognized right from the beginning and
highlighted as early as November 2010. As earlier explained, the project closing date was
confined by the Parent MDTF-South closing date. As discussed in Section 1.6 above, the
changes made as part of the project restructuring were instrumental in addressing these issues to
some extent, allowing the project design to be adapted to the existing realities.

Enabling Environment: The unfavorable political and economic conditions prevailing in the
post conflict South Sudan context provided a less than ideal enabling environment to support
project implementation. These conditions affected basic sectors such as banking and financial
institutions. As a result, contractors were unable to obtain basic financial requirements such as
Bank Guarantees for Advance Payment and Performance Securities required under Bank
procurement procedures. Basic construction materials and supplies such as cement and borehole
parts also had to be imported from neighboring countries, substantially increasing the associated
costs.

Security Issues: As alluded to above, conditions linked to the prevailing post conflict
environment in South Sudan, in particular security concerns in parts of the country affected
project implementation on several fronts. First, it was difficult to attract enough qualified
contractors willing to work in the affected areas. Second, the associated closure of the oil
pipelines, combined with ongoing hostilities between Sudan and South Sudan significantly
affected all contracts by increasing fuel and material prices, disrupting supply lines, and
minimizing supervision capacity, ultimately leading to termination of some contracts. It was for
instance not possible to maintain contractors in some of the areas such as Jonglie and Upper Nile,
and the total number of boreholes in these areas had to be scaled down, reducing the total
number of project beneficiaries substantially.

Contractor Capacity: Contractor capacity was a major hindrance to implementation progress,
leading to significant delays on two fronts; first during procurement, and second, during
implementation of contracts. With regard to procurement, in addition to already mentioned
difficulties in attracting highly qualified contractors in the difficult enabling environment, some



                                                11
of the contractors that did submit bids for construction of WSS facilities lacked experience in
World Bank/international bidding procedures. Several contractors under-quoted on contracts, a
situation deemed to be primarily due to failure to conduct pre-bidding site investigations, in part
due to security concerns, and subsequent lack of knowledge of the project areas. Consequently, a
lot of time was lost in procurement processing in the prevalent capacity constrained context. In
one case, selecting a contractor for a major Contract for the Drilling of New Boreholes and
Installation of Handpumps, Rehabilitation and Repair of Existing Boreholes, and Construction
and Rehabilitation of Small Water Distribution Systems (Lots 1-5), took more than seven months,
as a result of failure to obtain responsive bids after evaluation, in spite of an initial submission of
eight bids. Ultimately the MWRI and the Bank procurement team working closely together
decided to re-package the bid into ten smaller Lots, based on works in the ten States, to attract
more bidders. The seven month procurement period represented four months more than what was
originally envisaged in the Procurement Plan. The actual prices of various works contracts
differed vastly among bidders, and also compared to the initial cost estimates.

Price Escalations and Cost Overruns: As the result of the above mentioned procurement,
security, and other concerns, contract costs under the project increased between 30 and 230
percent depending on conditions affecting project localities, resulting in substantial cost-overruns,
and ultimately leading to scaling down of some activities.
Seasonal Constraints: Implementation of works was severely affected in some areas by the
heavy rainy seasons which hindered progress and made several sites inaccessible for weeks or
months on end. The MWRI had to extend the contract periods for several of the contracts to
address this issue, impacting the project’s overall implementation period in turn.

Land Acquisition: The project did encounter delays on some sites due to problems with land
acquisition. This was particularly the case for some of the public sanitation facilities, as most of
the land is fragmented and privately owned.

Restructuring: Project supervision missions and the MTR provided opportunities for the Bank
and Government to review progress and make adjustments to project design in light of changing
circumstances and existing realities. Consequently, the project was able to sustain relevance by
undergoing two restructurings, as discussed earlier.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: An M&E framework and database were established in the MWRI under the
RWSSP with the support of the TAST. These became core components for the M&E under the
new project. Appropriate indicators were identified to monitor implementation and progress
toward achieving the PDO. The project’s Results Framework, as laid out in the Project Proposal
was adequate for monitoring progress towards achievement of the PDO, with minor
shortcomings. For instance, there was no reliable baseline data at the start of the project due to a
virtual lack of capacity for monitoring of the sector. The Results Framework therefore focused
primarily on monitoring additional beneficiaries resulting from the project. The Framework was
revised as part of the project restructuring to reflect the substantially scaled down targets with
respect to some of the project components. It is fair comment in retrospect to note that the




                                                 12
original targets with respect to some of the indicators were somewhat ambitious in the
circumstances.

M&E Implementation and Utilization: In line with the above mentioned M&E framework
developed under RWSSP, a robust supervision and monitoring framework for the project was
developed, allowing the project team to track progress on the numerous sites across the country.
Progress was monitored on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis by a team comprising
members of MWRI, TAST, SDWSS and the County Commissioner’s offices of each State.
Progress data on on-going activities was evaluated and used by TAST to identify problem areas,
which were discussed in subsequent monthly PMT meetings to facilitate their resolution and
resource allocations. Regular weekly progress reports were prepared and submitted to the Bank
by the MWRI, enabling tracking of progress in the Bank’s Implementation Status and Results
(ISR) reports throughout project implementation. Project related photographic evidence and
video-documentation has also been produced and made available for reference. The sector’s
M&E capacity has been strengthened through formal and on-the-job training in the use of the
M&E system at the Central Government and State levels. The M&E system has been
mainstreamed under the MWRI’s M&E system which is available on its website. The system is
likely to be sustained beyond the operation’s implementation period.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards Compliance: The project triggered two Safeguards policies: Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Projects on International Waters (OP/BP 7.50). OP 7.6 (Projects
in Disputed Areas) was not considered triggered as the project was only implemented in the ten
states of Southern Sudan and not in the three disputed conflict affected areas of Abyei, South
Khordofan, and Blue Nile.

Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01): The project was classified as Environmental Category B
(Partial Assessment). A draft overall Framework for Environment and Social Assessment
(ESMF) was prepared for all MDTF projects prior to project preparation, and an ESMF was
prepared as part of project preparation since not all sites had been identified. Environmental
Assessment was implemented in accordance with required procedures and was rated Satisfactory
throughout implementation.

Projects on International Waters (OP/BP 7.50): The project triggered OP 7.50 since several
tributaries of the River Nile flow through South Sudan, and investments under the project
involved rehabilitation and drilling of shallow boreholes within the Nile watershed, as well as
provision of technical assistance for assessing water resources in Southern Sudan. The River Nile
is a trans boundary river with ten riparians: Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda. As a general rule
the Policy would have required that other riparians be notified of the project. An exemption to
the policy was however granted by the Bank’s Africa Regional Vice President on December 2,
2009, in accordance with Paragraph 7(a) of the Policy because most of the works related to
rehabilitation of existing schemes as opposed to new ones - the project was to finance the drilling
of about 90 shallow boreholes against the rehabilitation of 1050 existing ones, which was not




                                                13
expected to adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians, nor to
be adversely affected by the other riparians' possible water use.

Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management Compliance: The ICR rates Financial Management compliance under
the project Satisfactory overall, considering both project preparation and implementation aspects.
A Financial Management Assessment was conducted for the MDTF. In view of the high risk
and weak capacity environment, a set of fiduciary accountability systems were put in place to
manage funds from the GoSS and the TF, which included the project. Under the established
system, responsibility for accounting activities for the entire MDTF remained centralized under a
Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) established in the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning (MoFEP) to ensure proper accounting and reporting of transactions in
accordance with International Accounting Standards. A Finance team within the PMT under the
MWRI’s Directorate for WSS, was responsible for management of day to day FM aspects at the
project level.

Financial Management under the Project was rated Satisfactory throughout implementation and
the Financial Management risk was rated Moderate. Independent audits were conducted annually
and all audit reports and Interim Financial Reports were promptly prepared and submitted to the
Bank in a timely manner. The audited financial statements were unqualified. However, there
were some internal control and accountability issues identified that was subsequently rectified.
Challenges in accounting of project funds and management of operating costs by PMT staff were
overcome by continuous enlightening, coaching and monitoring by Bank staff, and performance
in compliance at the time of project closing was adequate.

Procurement Compliance: Implementation of the Procurement function under the project is
rated Moderately Satisfactory, with moderate shortcomings, mostly associated with the operating
environment. Procurement was conducted in accordance with the Bank’s Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated May 2004, revised October 2006; and
Guidelines for Selection of Consultants dated May 2004 and revised October 2006, and specific
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. A Procurement Capacity Assessment was
conducted as part of project preparation and the overall procurement risk was rated High. The
Procurement Unit in the PMT under MWRI, responsible for this function under the RWSSP,
remained responsible for procurement, having gained experience from the on-going project.
Capacity was further strengthened by an experienced internationally recruited Procurement
Advisor maintained through its TAST. The team was provided with both formal and on-the-job
training during implementation.

The project encountered a series of procurement related challenges throughout implementation,
mostly linked to the operating environment within which the project was implemented, and
associated challenges such as failure to attract highly qualified responsive vendors at reasonable
costs. These issues were addressed by the Government in close coordination with and with
support from the team and the Bank’s Procurement Specialists. Further details on key issues in
this respect, how they affected implementation and how they were addressed, were discussed
under Section 2.2 above.



                                               14
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Sustainability concerns relating to post-completion operation of investments financed by the
project and associated outcomes are driven by two main factors: (a) the establishment of
effective systems at all levels to ensure sustainable management; and (b) availability of adequate
resources, including financing for operations and maintenance of facilities given South Sudan’s
current fiscal crisis. These issues need to be addressed at the multiple levels; national, State, and
community levels, and from various fronts; technical, institutional, social, and financial. The
project design included several measures to support sustainability of post completion operations.

•   To strengthen the technical and institutional capacity to ensure sustainable operations and
    maintenance of services, warehouses were built in nine States and stocked with hand tools
    and spare parts for facilities such as the India Mark II hand-pump systems that were installed.
•   The project supported activities to further advance the Government’s capacity building
    agenda, such as the rehabilitation of the Amadi Rural Development Institute which will
    provide further training in O&M of facilities and other relevant topics for sustainable
    management of these services for sector staff at all levels. The Government of the
    Netherlands is providing further support to the Institute in form of furniture and equipment,
    support for some operational costs, and support for development and delivery of appropriate
    curriculums and training activities.
•   The project design included establishment of Water Committees to manage operations and
    maintenance of WSS facilities financed through the project. Of the total 620 facilities
    established through the project, WSS Committees have been established in 518 across
    country. As part of the construction contracts, contractors who constructed the facilities
    provided O&M training to Committee members. The Committees were also trained on
    Hygiene and Sanitation issues to promote behavioral change. The MWRI should provide
    continued support for establishment of Water Committees for the communities where they
    weren’t in place by the end of the project.
•   The MWRI has also prepared O&M Manuals for the WSS point facilities, which have been
    distributed to the States, to facilitate provision of timely knowledge and technical support for
    O&M to the beneficiary communities thereby increasing the likelihood of sustainability.

While these developments represent substantial progress, broader questions arise with regard to
the long-term financial sustainability of the WSS facilities supported by the project in light of the
uncertainty of resource allocations imposed by austerity measures at the national level due to
South Sudan’s current fiscal crisis. .

Follow-on Bank and Related Operations: The Bank is preparing a Local Government and Social
Development Project (LGSDP), in which water supply and sanitation are expected to be
important elements that will be implemented through a Community Driven Development (CDD)
approach. This project will serve as an important conduit for continued monitoring and follow up
activities in the sector, including dialogue with sector institutions to support implementation of
sustainable operation and maintenance of WSS services. Additionally, the Water and Sanitation



                                                 15
Program (WSP) has identified South Sudan as a focus country for Analytical and Advisory
(AAA) work in the WSS in Africa and plans to undertake an assessment of the sustainability of
WSS in the country, and to make recommendations on, among other things, the financial
sustainability for the long-term management of the WSS sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1   Objectives

Rating: Highly Relevant

The PDO was and remains highly relevant to South Sudan’s development priorities. Not only did
it support the GoSS’s immediate post-conflict priority of establishing government administrative
structures, rehabilitating key infrastructure, and delivery of basic services identified in the
Government’s Sector Policy Framework approved in November 2007, but it also remains aligned
with the overall objective of South Sudan’s current Development Plan for 2011-2013, which
seeks to ensure that by 2014 the country is a united and peaceful new nation, building strong
foundations for good governance, economic prosperity and enhanced quality of life for all. The
Development Plan recognizes the fact that actions to improve key basic social services, such as
health, education, and water and sanitation, address poverty by increasing well-being and labour
productivity. The PDO was revised during implementation through restructuring to reflect
changes in some of the GoSS’s priorities for the sector, thereby maintaining its relevance. The
PDO is also aligned with the Bank’s current Interim Strategy Note for South Sudan for 2013 to
2015, one of the focus areas of which is improving economic management and governance for
effective local service delivery.

3.1.2   Design and Implementation

Rating: Substantial

The relevance of the project design and implementation are assessed as Substantial. The PDO
and other elements of design, as discussed above were and remain aligned with South Sudan’s
previous and current development priorities. Implementation arrangements were generally
sound, largely informed by the World Bank MDTF-SS modality which placed Government as
recipient in the key implementation role, but provided for adequate technical support and
capacity building through external consultants. The project design was in principle technically
sound, and the components well-structured for a WSS operation of its nature, duly considering
lessons from the RWSP and other similar projects. The PDO targets were however rather
ambitious given the context, and the decision to combine the project’s focus on WSS with
broader Water Resources Management amidst the prevailing capacity and resources limitations
was perhaps loading more than could be reasonably accomplished in one project. This
shortcoming was recognized during implementation and the project design’s relevance to the
context sustained through the adjustments made as part of restructuring, which aligned the PDO
and targets with changes in the context and availability of resources.



                                              16
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Partially achieved/ Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR assesses efficacy with respect to project outcomes as Moderately Satisfactory, based on
substantial achievement with moderate shortcomings, of the project objective measured against
both the original and revised project objectives, in accordance with the requirements of the ICR
Guidelines for projects whose objectives have been formally revised. In this regard, separate
outcome ratings against original and revised project objectives are weighed in proportion to the
share of actual grant disbursements made in the periods before and after approval of the revision,
which was made as part of the restructuring conducted in June 2012. At the time of PDO
restructuring in June 2012, grant disbursements were at 49 percent.

Achievement of Original Objective: To increase access to safe water supply and sanitation in all
States by building a sustainable management system and developing the knowledge on water
resources in Southern Sudan.

The original PDO is considered as having three sub-objectives: (a) increasing access to safe
water supply; (b) increasing access to sanitation; and (c) developing the knowledge on water
resources in South Sudan. Achievement of each of the above is weighted equally (33.3 percent).
According to the definition, increasing access to safe water supply and sanitation is also intended
to be carried out in a sustainable manner. The element of ‘building a sustainable management
system’ in the PDO was considered a means to achieving the objective rather than an objective in
itself. Nonetheless, it is an important element, hence an indicator was rightfully included to try to
capture it - the number of community water points with an established water Committee and
O&M plan in place (%).

The project was able to provide access to safe water supply to about 394,000 people and access
to improved sanitation to about 22,500 people in South Sudan. Access to improved WSS services
is expected to bestow benefits to the beneficiaries on many levels, including health,
environmental, social, and economic benefits. Moreover, according to GOSS Sector Policy, it
served as part of the basis for improving the overall health and productivity of the population. In
the communities where project activities have taken place, the beneficiaries were trained in
hygiene practices and linkages between sanitation, water, and disease, further increasing their
likelihood of attaining the full health benefits of investments. As a result of improved access to
sanitation facilities there was a reduction in open defecation practices, resulting in overall
environmental and aesthetic benefits, especially around congested areas such as markets and
other public places. The project contributed to improved capacity of the primary WSS
institutions at the national, State, and community levels’ to manage services in a sustainable
manner.

While there is a plausible link that the provision of improved access to WSS services can serve
as a basis for improving overall health and productivity of the population, there is no data on the
health benefits of the improved access to these services because of the lack of data collection
capacity in South Sudan, as well as issues of attribution given the number of active players in the
WASH sector in South Sudan. Nonetheless it can be concluded from relevant studies that



                                                 17
WASH impact does extend beyond diarrhea to include diseases such as acute respiratory
infections, under-nutrition, soil-transmitted intestinal helminth infection such as ascaris,
trachoma, guinea worm, etc. Accordingly, investment from the project are expected to generate
health benefits in terms of lives saved, which are measured in economics mainly through
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) saved. This is measured in monetary terms by multiplying
the beneficiary number by twice the per capita income of South Sudan in purchasing power
parity (PPP) terms. Given the high per capita income of South Sudan (about US $1,513, in 2011,
World Bank, 2013) the health benefits are expected to be high. Similarly, though not quantified
at this stage, benefits with regard to averted productive loss and cost savings on health care in
general are envisaged.

Achievement of the targets with respect to each of the key outcome indicators of the PDO was
calculated as follows based on project results:

    •   PDO Indicator 1: Achievement of the target with respect to direct project beneficiaries
        (number) of which are female was calculated as follows: 416,500/662,000 = 0.63 or 63
        percent. Of these, an estimated 220,745 are female, based on gender demographics in
        South Sudan8 where 50.3 percent of the population are female.
    •   PDO Indicator 2: Achievement of the target with respect to increase in population with
        access to safe water supply as a result of the project is calculated as follows:
        394000/637000 = 0.62 or 62 percent.
    •   PDO Indicator 3: Achievement of the target with respect to increase in population with
        access to sanitation as a result of the project is calculated as follows: 22500/25000 = 90
        percent.
    •   PDO Indicator 4: Achievement of the target with respect to percentage water community
        points with an established Water committee and O&M Plan in place is calculated as
        follows: 586/1140 = 0.514 or 51.4 percent
    •   PDO Indicator 5: Achievement of the target with respect to developing knowledge on
        water resources was zero.

Achievement of the original objective, based on the weighted achievement of each element is 1/5
* (0.63 + 0.62+ 0.9 + 0.51 + 0) = 0.53 or 53 percent. The project was therefore rated
Unsatisfactory against the original PDO.

Revised Objective 1: To increase access to safe water supply and sanitation in all States of South
Sudan

The revised PDO is considered as having only two sub-objectives: (a) increasing access to safe
water supply; and (b) increasing access to sanitation in South Sudan. It however was measured


8
  Monitoring under the project did not explicitly collect gender disaggregated data, and used demographic
correlation.



                                                   18
through four outcome indicators. Achievement of the targets with respect to each outcome
indicator of the PDO was calculated as follows:

    •   PDO Indicator 1: Achievement of the target with respect to direct project beneficiaries
        (number) of which are female was calculated as follows: 416,500/395,500 = 1.053 0r
        105.3 percent
    •   PDO Indicator 2: Achievement of the target with respect to increase in population with
        access to safe water supply as a result of the project is calculated as follows:
        394000/370,500 = 1.063 or 106.3 percent.
    •   PDO Indicator 3: Achievement of the target with respect to increase in population with
        access to sanitation as a result of the project is calculated as follows: 22,500/25,000) or
        90 percent.
    •   PDO Indicator 4: Achievement of the target with respect to percentage water community
        points with an established Water committee and O&M Plan in place is calculated as
        follows: 586/620 = 0.95 = 95 percent

Achievement of the revised objective, based on the weighted achievement of each element is 1/4
* (1.05 + 1.06 + 0.9 + 0.95) = 0.99 or 99 percent. The project was therefore rated Satisfactory
against the original PDO.

The aggregated achievement of the PDO, based on the separate outcome ratings against original
and revised project objectives weighed in proportion to the share of actual grant disbursements
made in the periods before and after approval of the revision (49 percent: 51 percent) is
calculated as (0.49*53) + (0.51*99) = 25.97 + 50.49 = 76.5 percent, which represents a partial
achievement of the aggregated targets9. Based on the partial achievement of the intended overall
target, combined with uncertainties with respect to sustainability of the investments in some
places, the efficacy of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

                   Table 3.1 Aggregated Assessment for Achievement of PDOs
                                  Against original              Against             Overall
                                  PDOs                          revised PDOs
1    Rating                       Unsatisfactory                Satisfactory
2    Weight      (%     disbursed 49%                           51%                 100%
     before/after PDO change)
3    Weighted value               0.53 (53%)                    0.99 (99%)          0.765 (76.5%)
4    Final rating (rounded)                                                         Moderately
                                                                                    Satisfactory




9
  The same methodology is applied to the individual outcome indicators, based on weightings of achievement of the
original and revised outcomes in proportion to the disbursements before and after the PDO restructuring and are
presented in the Results Framework in the Datasheet.



                                                       19
3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

No financial and economic analysis was conducted during project appraisal. Assessment of the
project’s efficiency is therefore based on comparison of the average per capita investment costs
of schemes financed through the project with African averages. This assessment has revealed
that the project has utilized the available resources efficiently. The project spent about US$14.44
million for the construction and rehabilitation of about 586 schemes providing access to 404,580
people with safe drinking water. The unit cost per beneficiary is about US$40, which is well
within the average per capita cost for Africa that ranges from US$20 to US$90. The choice of
low cost technology (largely point sources suitable for the rural settlement pattern in South
Sudan) and the competitive award of contracts is believed to have contributed to this low unit
cost per beneficiary.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating for the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory on balance, in light of
its high relevance, Moderately Satisfactory efficacy with regard to achievement of the PDOs, and
satisfactory efficiency with respect to use of available resources.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

While there was no formal poverty reduction assessment conducted at any stage of the project, it
is fair to state that in providing access to safe water to 394,000 beneficiaries and improved
sanitation services to 22,500 beneficiaries, many of whom are poor, the project improved the
well-being of these people to some extent and as such, potentially had some impact on overall
poverty reduction. 51 percent of people in South Sudan live below the poverty line. Similarly
impacts on gender are envisaged to have been positive given that women and children are
usually responsible for managing water, sanitation, and hygiene related issues at the household
and community levels. Women are an integral part of Water Committees established through the
project. Each one of the Committees comprises seven members, at least three of whom,
including the Treasurer, are women. Inclusion of women has not only enabled greater gender
balance, but also adds value in knowledge and management of services since women are
primarily responsible for managing WSS at the household and in often community levels.

(b) Institutional Change/ Strengthening

While the PDO aimed to achieve improved access to safe water and sanitation services, it
implicitly sought to strengthen the newly established institutions responsible for operation and
maintenance of these services in South Sudan to ensure that they are managed in a sustainable
manner, through capacity building efforts and technical assistance targeting institutions at the



                                                20
Federal and State levels responsible for management of water supply and sanitation. The project
has registered achievements in terms of capacity built through training of Federal and State
government staff in subjects needed to sustainably manage water and sanitation services; and
provision of equipment and facilities to strengthen sector institutions. Staff from MWRI, who
worked closely with the TAST consultants during project implementation, were later deployed to
provide technical support to State Directorates at the State level. Although the overall capacity of
sector institutions needs to be further strengthened, the project has been instrumental in
establishing the basic support structures to set the stage for further development of the sector,
which will be a long-term undertaking.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Reduction in water related conflicts: Anecdotal evidence10 suggests that the project was able
to positively impact the occurrence of water related conflicts in some areas. This was particularly
the case in areas where the haffirs were built, providing year round water supplies to dry areas
where water related conflicts between rival cattle grazing communities were common. Since
2005, the MWRI has coordinated interventions pertaining to water harvesting and storage with
support from various development partners and the Government. One of such facilities is the Pul
Dool Haffir for Pul Dool pastoralist community of Uror County in Jonglei State. During dry
seasons, these pastoralists used to migrate to neighboring counties such as Pigi, Ayod and Nyirol
of Jonglei, and in the worst cases to Nasir County in the Upper Nile State, in search of water.
Their migration to Ayod County had in the past resulted in conflict with other pastoral groups. It
is now anticipated that with the operation of Pul Dool Haffir starting during the upcoming dry
season, migration to Ayod County will be minimized, which would mitigate the conflict and
contribute to peace making in the area. Similarly, with the upgrading of Lui Water Supply
System comprising a combined water system for integrated management and use of water
resources, including a rainwater harvesting reservoir, cattle troughs, water purification system,
transmission line, distribution system, and kiosks, in an area that previously experienced water
scarcity due to low yielding boreholes and seasonality of rivers, one of the inter-household
conflict triggers has been removed.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No formal beneficiary survey was conducted for the project. However, some beneficiary
opinions obtained during the ICR mission shed light on some of the project’s impacts.
Beneficiaries generally corroborated project documents and the ICRs general assessment that the
project substantially achieved its objective of improving access to safe water supply and
sanitation services, with overall impacts on the health, well-being, and dignity of beneficiaries.




10
     Anecdotal evidence on this issue was provided by the MWRI/TAST team.




                                                      21
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial: The ICR considers that the risk that development outcomes from the project
will not be maintained is Substantial, and briefly discusses the rationale for this assessment
below. It is worth noting though that the ICR review was conducted as the project was closing,
which was too early to fully assess the sustainability of investments established through it. The
true test of sustainability will only be felt several years after completion of the project. Moreover,
as already discussed, the project was implemented in a very challenging enabling environment.

Maintaining the development outcomes achieved by the project requires that the beneficiary
communities that have attained improved access to water supply and sanitation services through
the project are able to continue operating the facilities in a sustainable manner and to fully reap
the intended benefits over their design life. Sustainability in terms of continued delivery and
uptake of services is threatened by various technical, financial, attitudinal, institutional, and
economic factors. The sustainability of community water supply and sanitation systems involves
a chain of four essential links, the failure of any one of which endangers the entire enterprise:
they are Motivation; Maintenance; Cost Recovery; and Continuing Support (Carter, et al, 1999).

Motivation to use the facilities is not a major risk in this case given the dire need for WSS
services in the targeted communities. Motivation to use the new sources could however be
affected by concerns related to payment, including affordability, particularly where use of new or
rehabilitated facilities involves changes from non-payment to payment systems. The provision of
hygiene and sanitation education and sensitization to beneficiaries was a first step in addressing
the latter risk by creating a greater awareness of the benefits of using the safe water supply and
sanitation facilities. More should be done however to maintain the engagement with
communities on these issues even as the project closes. This will require monitoring and
continued allocation of resources specifically for these purposes. Success will depend on whether
the resources needed to continue this support are fully available.

Risks such as inadequate maintenance of facilities leading to their deterioration are also inter-
linked with the other aspects, cost recovery and continuing support. All of these aspects are
considered to constitute moderate to substantial risks in the South Sudan context. A well-
structured, adequately resourced and trained maintenance organization is necessary for technical
sustainability of facilities. On the whole, the technologies supported through the project are fairly
simple and fundamentally easy to operate and maintain with adequate training of operators and
availability of tools and spare parts. Training and spare parts have been provided through the
project to cover the short- to medium-term maintenance requirements. For the longer term
however, they are also closely dependent on sound management and maintenance systems being
in place and the continued availability of resources.

The project has made efforts in the limited time available to initiate establishment of
management organizations to support O&M of most the WSS facilities, based on models that
have worked elsewhere. A case in point is the Community Water Committee model for
management of borehole operations and maintenance, to receive continued support from the
State Water Ministry, which would in turn receive support from the MWRI. Establishment of
sound community management systems based on this approach however remains a post



                                                 22
completion challenge in some areas. Government is preparing guidelines on handing over of
completed schemes to beneficiary communities, with sample tripartite agreements, to be
distributed to state & county authorities and beneficiary Communities.

Other management models appeared even more uncertain at the time the project closed. For
instance, envisaged management models for community distribution systems, which were
envisaged to be based on Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangements, were still not
established. Similarly, Water Users’ Management Committees for management of haffirs had not
been established by the end of the project. Experience from other places indicates that once
projects close it becomes more difficult to establish such institutional structures without
significant efforts, capacity, and resources. Moreover, the challenge is in not just putting the
necessary structures in place and building needed capacity, but also in enforcing their adoption
by the communities. Alternative options should be defined in case the envisaged arrangements
are not feasible in some areas.

Last but not least is the risk relating to the long-term financial sustainability of services. This is
particularly important if cost recovery and fee collection from WSS service consumers does not
fully materialize, thus requiring support from already stretched government budgets, the absence
of which could mean a total run-down of systems. The long-term sustainability of WSS services
will therefore depend on whether an adequate cost-recovery or other financing mechanism is
assured at the community levels, and continued support is maintained through continued follow
up and provision of needed resources and support from MWRI and the States.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

While no formal quality at entry assessment was conducted for the project, the ICR rates Bank
performance in ensuring quality at entry Moderately Unsatisfactory on balance, based on the
extent to which it identified, and facilitated preparation and appraisal of the project to be able to
achieve its original development objectives, taking account of the prevailing circumstances
including time limitations brought about by the MDTF closing dates and the subsequent need for
processing under expedited preparation procedures (OP 8.00), as well as capacity limitations and
other exogenous factors such as the MDTF’s changing priorities in light of the financial crisis,
which resulted in a significant cut in the resources originally envisaged for the project by more
than 50 percent. Most elements of project preparation and appraisal, such as the Safeguards and
fiduciary assessments were adequately addressed, and appropriate implementation arrangements
made to manage them, based on lessons from similar projects. The ICR however considers
significant shortcomings in the technical appraisal of the project, which resulted in setting
development objectives and targets that were too ambitious given the prevailing contextual
limitations. There is evidence that these targets were partly influenced by the political pressure of
delivering on peace dividends envisaged under the CPA. These issues subsequently had to be



                                                 23
addressed through restructuring during supervision, substantially scaling down the original
project scope and targets.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR rates Bank performance for quality of supervision as Satisfactory. It takes account of
the extent to which the Bank team was able to proactively identify and resolve threats to the
achievement of relevant development outcomes and to play its fiduciary role in a satisfactory
manner, with minor shortcomings. The project was implemented in about half the time that it
would normally take to implement similar projects under non-emergency conditions, and was
able to achieve a significant proportion of its targets.

Project supervision inputs and processes were adequate. A total of seven supervision missions
were conducted, and adequate budget and staff with an appropriate skill mix were allocated
throughout the project implementation period. One Task Team Leader managed the project
throughout implementation, maintaining continuity, institutional memory, and client
relationships. The team’s efforts to conduct project supervision activities under what were often
very difficult conditions is highly commendable. For instance, access to certain sites was
sometimes impossible due to the poor condition of the road network, which were sometimes
rendered impassable for extended periods, especially during the rainy season. It was also difficult
to find reasonable accommodation and other basic amenities in many areas, and security was
always a major concern. The task team was collaborative and proactive in addressing challenges
and shortcomings. Although the project was labeled a problem project at MTR (Oct. 16, 2011)
because of concern on timely completion of all activities within the project closing date, the
supervision team was able to work closely with counterparts to resolve the outstanding issues,
proactively providing technical support and engaging the PMT, Government, and the OC in
dialogue as needed to address pertinent issues, including through restructuring, allowing the
project performance to be upgraded. One shortcoming in relation to project supervision relates to
the speed at which the final project restructuring was completed. This delay was attributed to
difficulties in securing timely agreement of all parties of the OC to the restructuring.

The team closely monitored progress and implementation progress, and issues were candidly
described in Bank aides-memoire and ISRs. Sufficient attention was also paid to safeguards and
fiduciary aspects as needed, and these aspects of the project were managed in a satisfactory
manner in compliance with Bank requirements, with minor shortcomings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR rates the overall Bank performance as Moderately Satisfactory on balance, considering
the Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for performance in ensuring quality at entry and the
Satisfactory quality of supervision, in view of the Moderately Satisfactory overall project
outcome.



                                                24
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR assesses Government performance as Satisfactory, based on the extent to which the
Borrower, in particular the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation
played a strong supporting role during project preparation and implementation under prevailing
capacity constraints, and generally complied with agreements, toward achievement of
development outcomes. Government ownership of the project was enabled by the World Bank
MDTF-SS modality, which placed the Government in key governance and implementation roles
for the project. The Government was fully committed to the project and it ensured that adequate
implementation arrangements were put in place to manage implementation. After the MTR, for
instance, the MWRI was able to mobilize, facilitate, and assign a team of local engineers to
support project supervision and contract administration activities in all States to expedite
implementation. Biannual meetings were held to allow MRWI and the States to coordinate their
policies. There was close coordination and dialogue between relevant government entities and
the Bank at all times to address issues as they arose.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR rates the performance of the project implementing agencies, in this case MWRI,
supported by TAST, as Satisfactory, based on the extent to which it supported project
preparation and implementation, despite the prevailing capacity and other constraints discussed
above. MWRI was able to oversee implementation of activities under the project effectively,
adequately fulfilling its key roles during implementation, including Project Management, and
management of the procurement and safeguards functions in accordance with the Project
Implementation Manual. This assessment is supported by the general rating of the performance
with respect to these aspects in Bank ISRs throughout supervision. The MWRI, with the support
of TAST closely supervised implementation to ensure technical quality of design and
construction work. The Government was also able to manage specific project related functions
such as financial management, which was done through a central the PFMU located within the
Ministry of Finance, in a satisfactory manner with minor shortcomings. Management of the
M&E function was also carried out in a satisfactory manner, through a robust framework
developed with the TAST support. This view is supported by the timely preparation and
submission of project progress reports in accordance with the Grant Agreement, as well as the
delivery of the sound Management Information System which provided a basis for overall M&E
for the sector beyond the project life.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                              25
Overall Borrower performance takes into consideration both the Government and the
Implementing Agency’s performance during preparation and implementation as discussed above.
On the basis of justification provided above, the Borrower’s overall performance is rated
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Implementation of the project has highlighted a number of important lessons, some specific to it
and others consistent with broader lessons emerging in the MDTF portfolio and lessons from
other projects in fragile and conflict affected states at large. Key lessons are highlighted below.

   i.   Political and technical considerations must be closely managed during project design and
        implementation, and expectations on what a project can realistically deliver clearly
        assessed and communicated to all stakeholder constituencies’ right from the outset.
        Although development and recovery are open-ended processes, the time limitations of the CPA
        created pressure to deliver the peace dividend to all constituents, leading to unrealistically high
        targets and expectations under the project in both geographical and technical scope and scale.
        This lesson is not unique to this operation, alone, but is consistent with the experience across
        several other projects under the broader MDTF-SS portfolio.

 ii.    Project design in fragile and post conflict States, which often face multiple barriers to
        service delivery, including a capacity conundrum characterized by weak institutional
        structures and other limitations to the enabling environment, should be simple and
        flexible. The project design, covering water supply and sanitation services in all ten states
        of South Sudan, in addition to water resources management aspects, was somewhat
        complex in the challenging post conflict context.

 iii.   MDTF financed operations should duly recognize and highlight limitations imposed by
        the TF structure and modalities on the design, and realistically align desired outputs,
        outcomes, and implementation schedules accordingly.

 iv.    Projects in fragile and post-conflict environments are sometimes developed and
        appraised with limited or incomplete information, and other dynamic conditions, which
        may create risks to implementation and outcomes. Underlying assumptions where
        applied, should be duly acknowledged and associated risks and mitigation measures
        identified.

  v.    Trade-offs between quality and timeliness of delivering services should be carefully
        balanced, and project design should be cognizant of the fact that sustainable WSS service
        delivery requires adequate time to do well, especially in regard to the need for
        strengthening institutional capacity at the national, state, community, and civil society
        levels, and elements that require behavioral change such as CLTS. According to portfolio
        wide experience from the MDTF, highlighted in the IFE report, “some projects can be
        done quick and well, while some can only be done well with time?. It notes that
        delivering “quick and bad? products had a corrosive effect on public perception when the
        goods and service delivered as a “peace dividend? were of poor quality, not sustainable,
        and/or did not produce meaningful changes in living conditions in South Sudan.



                                                   26
 vi.    All aspects of Procurement Planning, including selection of procurement methods,
        contract packaging, timing allowed for implementation of activities, and other pertinent
        factors in fragile and post-conflict situations such as South Sudan should be more
        flexible, duly considering the context in which operations are implemented. Procurement
        under the project encountered numerous challenges from the outset, including low
        capacity of local contractors and a difficult enabling environment in terms of the
        economic, financial, and political conditions, to attract qualified contractors from
        elsewhere. Aid modalities can be used effectively to not only address emergency needs in
        fragile and conflict affected States, but to also re-build basic sector capacities to manage
        service delivery in a sustainable manner. Integrating capacity building efforts within
        sectoral operations such as the current WSS rather than as stand-alone efforts, is an
        effective way of providing direct support to service delivery while contributing to
        formation and strengthening of national institutions to ensure sustainable delivery.

vii.    Structures established to operate and maintain facilities to ensure continued service
        delivery at the local or community level should be provided with ongoing support during
        the post construction stage, to ensure sustainability. While the project has facilitated
        establishment of structures such as Water Committees in most water points, it is
        imperative that mechanisms be put in place to ensure that they continue to be monitored
        and provided with needed support during the operation phase to sustain and build upon
        the practices established.

viii.   Effective governance requires transparency and mutual accountability between all
        principle stakeholders, framed by clearly defined roles and responsibilities, and M&E of
        the performance of the governance systems and individual stakeholders. Communication
        lines and response times between the community and the State agencies for managing
        WSS services should be clarified, and a system of accountability put in place for these
        institutions to remain accountable to the top and bottom.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

Not applicable as issues were not raised.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                              Percentage of
Components                        Estimate(USD      Estimate(USD
                                                                               Appraisal
                                    millions)          millions)
Component 1: Water Supply
                                          13.202             15.35                116.3
Component 2: Sanitation                   5.325                   0.914            17.2
Component 3: Water Resources
                                             2.40                 3.719            155
Technical Support
Component 4: Capacity Building            4.674                   4.473            157
Component 5: Project and
                                          3.380                   5.358            186
Information Management
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                    1.019                   0.185            18.2
Price Contingencies                        0.00
Total Project Costs                       30.00                 29.999             100


(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                   Type       of Estimate        Estimate      Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing (USD              (USD          Appraisal
                                                 millions)       millions)
Trust Funds                                      0.00            0.00
Multi-donor Trust Fund for South
                                                    30.00        29.99           99.99
Sudan


c) Project Eligible Expenditures WSSP
 Category                 Allocated amount        Amended allocated       Percentage of
                             of the Grant         amount of the Grant     expenditure
                                (USD)             31st December 2012
                                                         (USD)
 1) Goods, Services and      13,448,000.00             13,023,095.03             100%
    Workshops and
    Training
 2) Works                    15,572,000.00             16,496,904.97             100%
 3) Operating Costs             980,000.00                480,000.00             100%
                             30,000,000.00             30,000,000.00




                                             28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project had five main components: (i) Water Supply; (ii) Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion;
(iii) Water Resources Technical Support; (iv) Capacity Building; and (v) Project Management
Support and Strengthening MIS/Database. Implementation and overall achievement of expected
actual outputs against planned outputs was generally satisfactory with moderate shortcomings for
all components, except the Water Resources Technical Support Component, the main activity for
which was cancelled. Further detail on the achievement of outputs by Component is provided
below.

Component 1 - Water Supply

This component was to finance 90 new boreholes; rehabilitation of 1050 existing boreholes; and
a variety of other schemes (including 20 hand-dug wells, 20 new and 13 rehabilitation of small
water supply distribution systems, 2 haffirs (surface open water reservoirs), 1 water distribution
system with treatment, and 6 spring protection systems. In addition, this component would
finance the assessments, feasibility studies, and design of water supply and sanitation systems for
7 state capitals (Bor, Rumbek, Yambio, Torit, Kuacjok, Aweil, and Bentiu). The focus was to be
on previously neglected areas identified from the MWRI database and in response to requests
received from County and State authorities.

The following outputs were achieved under this component:

•    A total of 45 new boreholes (50%) were drilled and equipped with hand pumps
•    245 existing boreholes were rehabilitated
•    300 existing boreholes (100%) were repaired
•    18 new and 11 existing small water distribution systems were constructed and rehabilitated,
     respectively
•    One water distribution system (Lui)11 with treatment (100%) was upgraded. It consists of
     four reservoirs, a treatment plant, supply and installation of generator and pumps,
     construction of pump houses and office, supply and laying of 680 meters pressure main and
     over 14 Km distribution line, as well as construction of 10 water vending kiosks and
     connection to seven public facilities have been completed.
•    One new Haffir was completed
•    Feasibility studies and detailed designs of water supply and sanitation facilities for the seven
     State capitals were completed.



11
   Rehabilitation and upgrading of Lui water supply system with treatment was initially planned to be implemented
under RWSSP. However due to lengthy negotiations with the contractor, including the need to review the design
proposals, the contract could not be signed on time and therefore the project was transferred from RWSSP to WSSP.




                                                       29
Of the 620 community water points, 586 have established water and sanitation management
committees that were elected by user communities. Where there are no water committees, there
is at least one focal person as hand pump caretaker for each facility. Additionally, public private
partnership (PPP) management is envisaged for small water distribution systems, but it is unclear
when such systems will be established. For the Haffir, a water users’ management committee has
been initiated.

An estimated 394,000 are expected to benefit from the completed schemes. Key outcomes
achieved under this component relate to the following:

   •   Drilling and equipping of all planned 45 new boreholes benefitting about 22,500 people.
   •   Rehabilitation of all planned 235 existing boreholes benefitting about 117,500 people.
   •   Repairing of all planned 300 existing boreholes benefitting about 150,000 people.
   •   Construction of 17 new small water distribution systems benefitting 51,000 people.
   •   Rehabilitation of 12 existing small water distribution systems benefitting 36,000 people.
   •   Upgrading of one water distribution system with treatment benefitting 17,000people, and
   •   Construction of 1 new Haffir benefitting a total of 1,800 people from 300 households.

Component 2 - Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion

This component comprised the introduction of sanitation facilities and promotion of the concept
of Community Lead Total Sanitation. The focus would continue to be on household,
environmental, and institutional sanitation, both in the rural and urban areas, such as in a number
of public places, including schools, health facilities, markets and bus parks, and provision of
equipment for sewage removal and disposal, with emphasis on effective delivery of key hygiene
messages to effect behavioral change. MWRI was to work more closely with MoH and MoEST
before contracting institutional latrines at health centers and schools to ensure facilities were
built where they were really needed and to avoid duplication. VIP type latrines would be
promoted for those who could afford to build them, and unsustainable subsidies would be
discouraged.

Under this component, the following outputs were achieved:

   •   A total of nine public latrine blocks (90%), out of the planned ten, were completed in 9
       states of the Republic of South Sudan. Each block had eight seats, four for males and four
       for females. The original plan to construct 50 public latrines at was reduced to 10 due to
       unexpected price escalation on construction materials and fuel in the country, which led
       to revision of the outputs and cancellation of other subcomponents. The latrines were
       constructed at strategic locations in State capitals, such as markets and entry points to the
       towns. The completed schemes were handed over to the Town Authorities, who will be
       responsible for their overall management and day to day operations and maintenance. A
       total of 22,500 people are estimated to benefit directly from this component.

   •   Feasibility Studies and Detailed Designs for Wastewater Treatment Systems (oxidation
       ponds) have been completed for 7 towns (Kapoeta, Nimule, Maridi, Wau, Raja, Malakal,

                                                30
       and Renk) out of the planned 8 towns. The study in Jikou was cancelled due to the
       limited number of beneficiaries. Resolution of land issues took excessive time to
       negotiate with the communities and in some towns resulted in delay of the detailed design
       activities as originally anticipated.

Component 3 - Water Resources Technical Support Promotion

This component comprised development of knowledge base WRM activities, in view of the
prevailing conspicuous lack of accessible data on the water resources of Southern Sudan. This
was to provide technical assistance for designing a water information system for the water
resources (surface and ground water) assessment in Southern Sudan to enable collection of
much-needed information on the country’s water resources and development of guidelines on
future activities. Establishment and equipping of water quality laboratories in state capitals
including training of staff was also one of the main activities under this component.

The following outputs were achieved under this component:

   •   All water quality laboratories in 9 state capitals were established and equipped with
       laboratory equipment, chemical reagents and portable water testing kits.
   •   Thirty seven staff members from the states and national ministries were also trained.

Component 4 - Capacity Building

This component aimed to build on the process of building capacity of staff, giving emphasis to
gender balanced selection of staff at the central and state levels, in the management, monitoring,
operation, and maintenance of rural and urban water and sanitation utilities. The component
would also provide for improvement of office space, provision of vehicles, office equipment, and
furniture, acquisition of billing and collection systems for the water operations and the
rehabilitation of Amadi National Training Centre. The capacity building would also include
training by consultants during the feasibility study, design, and construction phases.

The following outputs were achieved under this component:

   •   Construction works for Amadi Rural Development Institute, including a guest house,
       workshop, dining room, classroom renovations, and hostels were completed.

   •   Construction and rehabilitation of office facilities and warehouses for State Water
       Directorates were completed and handed over to the States, together with vehicles.
       Eleven vehicles were provided to MWRI, ten of which were distributed to the ten State
       Directorates for WSS (SDWSS).

   •   MWRI and all ten SDWSS were provided with furniture & equipment, computers,
       copiers and generators. The ten SDWSS were also provided with V-Sats and hand pump
       spare parts.



                                               31
     •   A total of 333 persons were trained in various disciplines and subjects related to WSS
         management. The training included a total of 7 tailor made trainings, 21 regional
         trainings, and 11 conferences and exchange visits. Participants from the national Ministry
         of Water Resources and Irrigation account for 41% while those from States were about
         57% and the remaining 2% were participants from other government institutions
         (Ministry of Health, Education, Agriculture and the Urban Water Corporation). The
         training package was able to train more than what had been planned, with lower budgets,
         largely due to savings made by economical use of travel arrangements and due to
         trainings provided by bringing trainers to South Sudan instead of sending trainees abroad.

Component 5 - Project Management Support and Strengthening MIS/Data Base

This component included the technical support provided to the Project Management Team
(PMT), the operating expenses of the project, and a continuation of the establishment and
strengthening of the database for water supply that was started under Phase I. Under the RWSS,
a prototype Management Information System (MIS) and water supply database was developed
and staff were trained on its structure and how to input data. Provision of technical support for
further effective use of the system and setting up a network to connect all the departments in
MWRI including the 10 state directorates, were important activities under this component.

Under this component, the following outputs were achieved:

     •   TA was provided to PMT through TAST and PSCs.
     •   The Operating Account was allocated to facilitate project management activities.
     •   Establishment and strengthening of the database for water supply continued throughout
         the project life through the development of Management Information System (MIS) and
         Water Supply Database. Staff members were trained for this purpose.

         Table A2.1    Summary of Outputs by Component (based on Revised Targets)

 No Component         Original Sub-             Revised sub-              Outputs (as of 31st
                      component*                component**               Dec 2012)
 1       Water Supply • Construction of         • Construction of 45      • 45 new bore holes
                        90 new boreholes;         new boreholes;            (100%) drilled

                        • Rehabilitation of     • Rehabilitation of 235   • 235 boreholes
                          1050 existing           existing boreholes        (100%) rehabilitated
                          boreholes; and a
                          variety of other      • Repair of 300           • 300 boreholes
                          schemes                 existing boreholes        (100%) repaired
                          (including 20         18 new and 11             • 100% completed
                          hand-dug wells),      rehabilitation of small



                                                32
                 • 20 new and 13        water supply
                   rehabilitation of    distribution systems,
                   small water supply   • Construction of 1
                                           new haffir            • 100% of the work
                   distribution
                                                                   completed
                   systems,             • Upgrading of Lui
                                          Water Supply with
                 • 2 haffirs (surface                            • 100% of the work
                                          Treatment
                   open water                                      completed
                   reservoirs),
                                        • Cancelled
                 • 1 Water
                   Distribution         • Assessments,
                   System with            feasibility studies and • 100% of the work
                   Treatment.             design of water           completed
                 • 6 spring protection    supply  and  sanitation
                   systems, and           systems for 7 state
                 • Assessments,           capitals (Bor,
                   feasibility studies    Rumbek, Yambio,
                   and design of          Torit, Kuajok, Aweil,
                   water supply and       and Bentiu).
                   sanitation systems
                   for 7 state capitals
                   (Bor, Rumbek,
                   Yambio, Torit,
                   Kuajok, Aweil,
                   and Bentiu).
2   Sanitation   • Construction of 50 • Construction of 10       • 90% of the
                   public latrines in   public latrines in 10      construction
                   community            towns of South             completed.
                   schools and health   Sudan, and
                   centres.
                                      • Cancelled
                 • Provision of
                   sanitation and
                                                                 • The feasibility
                   hygiene                                         studies and detailed
                   equipment,         • Feasibility studies        design of wastewater
                   including about 20   and detailed design        treatment systems
                   vacuum tankers       of wastewater              (oxidation ponds) for
                   and about 5          treatment systems          7 towns (Kapoeta,
                   backhoes.            (oxidation ponds) for      Nimule, Maridi,
                                                                   Wau, Raja, Malakal
                                        8 towns including 2
                 • Construction and                                and Renk)


                                        33
                  fencing of               state capitals           completed.
                  oxidation ponds          (Kapoeta, Nimule,
                  for waste water in       Maridi, Wau, Raja,
                  5 towns of South         Malakal, Renk and
                  Sudan.                   Jikou).
                • Provision of       • Cancelled
                  Hygiene
                  Education to water
                  committees.
                • Development of
                  sanitation strategy.
3   Water       • Technical              • Cancelled
    Resources     assistance for
    Technical     designing a water
    Support
                  information
                  system for the
                  water resources                                  • 90% water quality
                  (surface and           • Establishment and         laboratories
                  ground water)            equipping of 9 water      established and are
                  assessment in            quality laboratories      equipped with
                  South Sudan              in state capitals         laboratory
                                                                     equipment, chemical
                                           including training of     reagents and
                • Establishment and
                                           staff                     portable water
                  equipping of water
                  quality                                            testing kits in 10
                                                                     state capitals and 37
                  laboratories in
                                                                     number of staff
                  state capitals                                     trained
                  including training
                  of staff
4   Capacity                             • Amadi Rural             • 100% of work under
    Building                               Development Institute     WSSP completed

                                         • Provision of Vehicles   • 100% of the
                                                                     vehicles (11 of
                                                                     them) provided
                                         • Provision of Office
                                           Furniture – Equipment • MWRI and all 10
                                                                   states’ DWSS
                                                                   provided with
                                         • Provision of V-sats,    furniture &


                                          34
                                             PCs, copiers,             equipment
                                             generators
                                                                     • V-sats were
                                                                       provided to all
                                                                       DWSS in 10 states
                                            • Provision of hand
                                                                       and PCs, copiers and
                                              pump spare parts
                                                                       generators were
                                            • Training Program         provided to MWRI
                                                                       and all 10 states’
                                                                       DWSS
                                                                     • 100% completed

                                                                     • 333 persons in total
                                                                       trained
5   Project         Support to PMT          Support to PMT           • TAST and PSCs
    Management      Updating and            Updating and               recruited
    Support and     strengthening: (i)      strengthening: (i)
    Strengthening   project management      project management        • Operation Cost
    MIS/Data        information system;     information system; and     allocated
    Base            (ii) the inventory of   (ii) water and sanitation
                    water points in all     database                  • Monitoring teams at
                    counties; and (iii)                                 national and state
                    water and sanitation                                levels established
                    database                                            and regular
                                                                        monitoring of
                                                                        project activities
                                                                        carried out.
                                                                     • Data on the facilities
                                                                       entered in the
                                                                       database.




                                             35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The appraisal process did not involve a formal financial and economic analysis. Assessment of
the project’s efficiency is therefore based on comparison of the average per capita investment
costs of schemes financed through the project with African averages. This assessment has
revealed that the project has utilized the available resources efficiently. The project spent about
US$14.44 million for the construction and rehabilitation of about 620 schemes providing access
to 416,500 people with safe drinking water. The average unit cost per beneficiary is about US$40,
which is well within the average per capita cost for Africa that ranges from US$20 to US$90.
The choice of low cost technology (largely point sources suitable for the rural settlement pattern
in South Sudan) and the competitive award of contracts is believed to have contributed to this
low unit cost per beneficiary.




                                               36
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
Names                       Title                                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation

Tesfaye Bekalu Wondem       Sr Water and Sanitation Specialist AFTU1 Task Team Leader
Alfred Gunther Gutknecht    Water & Sanitation Specialist      AFTU1 Technical
Anjani Kumar                Sr Procurement Specialist          AFTPE Procurement
Solomon Alemu               Consultant                         AFTU1 Technical
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola   Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTME   Financial
                                                                         Management
Marie Claire Li Tin Yue     Sr Program Assistant                 AFTU1
Supervision/ICR
Solomon Alemu               Consultant                           AFTU1 Technical
Tesfaye Bekalu Wondem       Water and Sanitation Specialist      AFTU1 Task Team Leader
Alfred Gunther Gutknecht    Water & Sanitation Specialist        AFTU1 Technical
Anjani Kumar                Sr Procurement Specialist            AFTPE   Procurement
Bedilu Amare Reta           Environmental Specialist             AFTN3   Environmental
                                                                         Safeguards
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola   Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTME   Financial
                                                                         Management
Sanyu Lutalo                Sr Water and Sanitation Specialist AFTU1 ICR Author
Marie Claire Li Tin Yue     Sr Program Assistant               AFTU1
Suzan Poni Piwang           Team Assistant                     AFMJB

(b) Staff Time and Cost10
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY08                                                2.32                    10.0
FY09                                               17.52                    74.4
FY10                                               11.50                    17.2
Total:                                                                     101.6
Supervision/ICR
FY10                                                8.80                    33.1
FY11                                               30.30                    38.0
FY12                                               44.48                   106.4
FY13                                               40.16                    92.5
Total:                                                                     270.0



                                             37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                        39
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



                      The Republic of South Sudan

                      Ministry of Water Resources & Irrigation



Multi-Donor Trust Fund –SS
Water Supply and Sanitation Project (WSSP)
Grant No. TF 096197 - P111061




Implementation Completion and Results Report

Juba, February 2013




                                            40
1 Background

The immediate post-conflict priority of GOSS was the establishment of government
administrative structures, rehabilitation of key infrastructure and delivery of basic services. In
line with this a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSSP), for a scope of US$30
million was approved for financing by the MDTF on a 50:50 cost sharing basis with GOSS, to
respond to the immediate provision of improved water supply and sanitation to rural areas of
South Sudan and alleviate the low capacity for implementation and coordination of infrastructure
projects. Under RWSSP, drilling of 597 new boreholes fitted with hand pumps, rehabilitation of
548 existing boreholes, construction of 14 small distribution systems, 3 haffirs, 2 roof water
harvesting systems, 4 warehouses and 109 blocks of institutional latrines completed and
assistance was provided to the construction of 1,071 household latrines. These interventions
benefitted more than 639,250 people.

Due to serious funding constraints, largely triggered by the global economic crisis (including the
fall of oil prices), a total budget of US$30 million only, fully financed by MDTF, was allocated
to the water supply and sanitation needs in urban and rural areas of RSS.

The project had the following milestones (key dates)

Approval of the MDTF-SS by Oversight Committee              16 December 2009
Project Effectiveness                                       7 May 2010
Mid Term Review                                             17 – 21 October 2011
Original Closing Date                                       30 June 2011
First Project Extension                                     30 June 2012
Revised Project Closing Date after extension                31 December 2012

The Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigations (MWRI) recognized the importance of
developing effective water supply and sanitation services as a basis for improving the overall
health and productivity of the population. MWRI developed a Water Sector Policy, which
outlines the vision of the GoSS and established the basic principles and objectives. The Water
Sector Policy, which would guide development efforts in the sector, had been approved by South
Sudan Legislative Assembly in November 2007. This policy addresses issues identified during a
series of consultations held with water stakeholders between 2005 and 2007. The policy
represents an important first step towards the establishment of a comprehensive regulatory
framework for rational management and utilization of water resources and effective delivery of
water and sanitation services in South Sudan. The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS)
and Urban Water Supply and Sanitation (UWSS) sections of the water policy have laid down the
(i) guiding principles, (ii) Specific Objective and (iii) Key Issues and Priorities for RWSS and
UWSS.

The interventions included in WSSP are, therefore, based on this overarching development
policy and strategy of RSS. The implementation of the project also intended to contribute to the
broad sector objective of providing access to safe water supply and improved sanitation services
and to improve the overall capacity in project implementation and operational efficiency of the
project implementing agency.


                                               41
2.1 Project Development Objective

The original overall Project Development Objectives (PDO) were

   (i) “To increase access to safe water supply and sanitation in all 10 States by building a
       sustainable management system?.

   (ii) “Develop the knowledge on water resources in South Sudan?.

During the Mid Term Review (MTR), however, it was agreed to revise the PDO as the project
component of Hydro-meteorological Information System (HIS) had been dropped. The revised
PDO, then, became “Increase access to water supply and sanitation in all States of South
Sudan?. Subsequently, the key project outcome indicators had been revised as it is indicated in
the following table.

        Table 1: Key project outcome indicators
   No    Project Outcome Indicators                   Original        Revised    project
                                                      project output output end date
                                                      end date target target
   1     Direct project beneficiaries (number)           662,000         395,500
   2     People in project areas with improved     25,000           25,000
         access to sanitation facilities. (number)
   3     People in project areas with improved     637,000          370,500
         access to water sources (number)
   4     Targeted Water Community Points with      1140             610
         an established Water Committee and
         O&M plan in place (number)
   5      Water resources assessment carried out   yes              No*
         and published (yes/no)
        *The component, HIS, of this outcome indicator had been dropped during the MTR.

2.2 Project components

The components of WSSP were water supply, sanitation, water resources technical support,
capacity building, and strengthening the data base and Project Management; focusing on the
following and each incorporating a range of activities:
    (i) development and rehabilitation of water supply facilities in rural areas and villages and
         trading centres across all States of South Sudan, and assessments, feasibility studies and
         design of water supply and sanitation systems for 7 state capitals (Bor, Rumbek, Yambio,
         Torit, Kuajok, Aweil, and Bentiu).
   (ii) construction of public latrines at selected urban centres and assessments, feasibility
         studies and detailed design of wastewater treatment systems (oxidations ponds) for 6
         towns and 2 state capitals
   (iii) water resources management support through knowledge-based activities.




                                                 42
  (iv) building the capacities of the PMTs at the National level and in the States, through human
       resources development based on institutional capacity needs and provision of adequate
       infrastructure (such as office facilities, office equipment, transport), and
  (v) continuation of development and improvement of an adequate Management Information
       System and provision of technical assistance to enhance overall execution and
       management of the Project

2.2.1 Component 1 - Water Supply: As indicated in Annex 1, this component included drilling
of 45 new boreholes; rehabilitation of 235existing boreholes; repair of 300 existing borehole; a
variety of other schemes including 17 new and 12 rehabilitation of small water supply
distribution systems, construction of 1new Haffir (primarily for livestock), upgrading of 1 water
distribution system with treatment. In addition, the component included the assessments,
feasibility studies and detailed design of water supply and sanitation systems for 7 state capitals
(Bor, Rumbek, Yambio, Torit, Kuajok, Aweil, and Bentiu). The focus was on previously
neglected areas identified from the MWRI database and in response to requests received from
county and state authorities.

2.2.2 Component 2 - Sanitation: - Under this component, WSSP planned to implement the
construction of 10 public latrines in 10 states, and feasibility studies and detailed design of
wastewater treatment systems (oxidation ponds) for 8 towns including 2 state capitals (Kapoeta,
Nimule, Maridi, Wau, Raja, Malakal, Renk and Jikou).

2.2.3 Component 3 – Water Resources Technical Support: - Under this component, WSSP
focused establishing and equipping of Water Quality Laboratories in 10 state capitals to monitor
and acquire data on the water quality of ground and surface water resources of South Sudan. The
component also included training of staff.

2.2.4 Component 4 – Capacity Building: -. This component aimed to build on the process of
building capacity of staff at the central and state levels in the management, monitoring, operation
and maintenance of rural and urban water and sanitation utilities. WSSP under this component
also provided vehicles, office furniture & equipment, V-sats, PCs, copiers, generators, and hand
pump spare parts. Additionally, Amadi Rural Development Institute was supported by
constructing new buildings and rehabilitating of existing ones. The capacity building also
included facilitation of different types of trainings in and outside of the country.

2.2.5 Component 5 – Project Management Support and Strengthening MIS/Data Base: -
This component included provision of technical support to the Project Management Team
(PMT), the operating expenses of the project and a continuation of the establishment and
strengthening of database for water supply that was started under RWSSP. The PMT was
supported by a technical assistance support team (TAST) and Programme Support Consultants.
Under RWSSP, a prototype Management Information System (MIS) and Water supply database
has been developed. Staff members have been trained on its structure and on how to input data.
Follow up on this and providing technical support for further effective use of the system and
setting up a network to connect all the departments in MWRI, including the 10 state directorates,
were important activities under this component.




                                                43
2.3 Project Outcomes

The summarized project outcomes at closing date (31 December 2012) of the project are
indicated in the following Table 2.

Table 2: Achievement of Project Outcomes
 No Project Outcome Indicators                 Revised     Actual project % of actual
                                               project     output     end project output
                                               output end date target     at end date
                                               date target
 1     Direct       project      beneficiaries    395,500     400,300         101%
       (number)
 2     People in project areas with               25,000      22,500          90%
       improved access to sanitation
       facilities. (number)
 3     People in project areas with               370,500     394,000         106%
       improved access to water sources
       (number)
 4     Targeted Water Community Points            620         610             98%
       with      an     established    Water
       Committee and O&M plan in place
       (number)
 5      Water       resources     assessment      No*         No
       carried out and published (yes/no)

In order to achieve the above indicated outcomes, the project carried out the following:
Component 1-Water Supply
                                                 • Drilling and equipping of all planned 45
                                              new boreholes benefitting about 22,500 people.
                                                 • Rehabilitation of all planned 235 existing
                                              boreholes benefitting about 117,500 people.
                                                 • Repairing of all planned 300 existing
                                              boreholes benefitting about 150,000 people.

                                                  • Construction of 17 new small water
                                              distribution systems benefitting 51,000 people.
                                                  • Rehabilitation of 12 existing small water
                                              distribution systems benefitting 36,000 people.
                                                  • Upgrading of one water distribution system
                                              with treatment benefitting 17,000people, and
   •   Construction of 1 new Haffir benefitting a total of 1,800 people from 300 households.




                                                44
These facilities have been implemented in all 10 states of South Sudan and a total of 395,800
people have benefitted from them.
Component 2 – Sanitation
   •   A total of 9 public latrines have been constructed in 9 states
       of South Sudan out of the planned 10, and feasibility studies
       and detailed design of wastewater treatment systems
       (oxidation ponds) for 8 towns including 2 state capitals
       (Kapoeta, Nimule, Maridi, Wau, Raja, Malakal, Renk and
       Jikou) have been carried out. The contract of 1 public latrine
       was cancelled due delay in handing over of the site by local
       authorities
The constructed public latrines benefitted a total of 22,500 people
making the achievement output target 90%.
Component 1 & 2 have contributed in benefitting a total of 403,300
people and enabled 397,000 people to have access to improved water sources.

Component 3 – Water Resources Technical Support

                                  A total of 10 water quality laboratories have been established
                                  and equipped in all 10 states of South Sudan and a total of 37
                                  persons have been trained for this purpose.

Component                         4 – Capacity Building

Under this component, the following activities have been
carried out.
    • In Amadi Rural Development Institute, construction of
        the following facilities has been completed: a
        Guesthouse, Workshop, Dining room, Classroom
        renovation, Gents Hostel and Lady’s Hostel.
    • 11 motor vehicles have been provided to MWRI and 10
        States’ Directorates of Water Supply and Sanitation
        (SDWSS).
    • MWRI and 10 SDWSS have been provided with Office
        Furniture and Equipment, PCs & laptops with
        accessories, copiers and generators.
    • 10 SDWSS were provided with V-sats and hand pump spare parts, and


                                               45
   •   A total of 325 persons received training including those for water quality testing.

Component 5 – Project Management Support and Strengthening MIS/Data Base
Under this component, the following support was provided to PMT.
   • TA has been provided to PMT through TAST and PSCs.
   • Operating account has been allocated to facilitate project management activities.
   • Establishment and strengthening of database for water supply continued throughout the
       project life through the development of Management Information System (MIS) and
       Water Supply Database. Staff members have been also trained for this purpose.

3 Institutional and Project Implementation Arrangements

3.1 Institutional Arrangement

Figure 1 below shows the overall institutional structure for project management indicating the
flow of responsibilities and accountabilities, each party having its own roles and responsibilities.

Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (MWRI) was the lead institution for the Water
Supply and Sanitation Project (WSSP). The management of the implementation was vested in a
project management team (PMT) created in the Directorate of Water Supply and Sanitation
(DWSS) in MWRI. A technical assistance team (TAST) and individual program support
consultants were recruited to provide support to the PMT. The major part of PMT’s works
concerned tendering and procurement of works contracts, goods and services. The PMT was
responsible for the preparation of the detailed design, implementation management, planning,
communication, coordination, financial and procurement management for all WSSP activities.

South Sudan Water Sector Steering Committee (SSWSSC): The Government of South Sudan
had oversight of the project through the SSWSSC whose members included Ministry of
Cooperatives and Rural Development (MCRD), Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries,
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Ministry of Energy and Mines, Ministry of Gender and
Social Welfare, Ministry of Transport and Development Partners in the sector and was chaired
by MWRI. The SSWSSC was responsible for policy issues and strategic guidelines, for
providing overall policy and strategy direction of the Project, coordination with donors,
overseeing implementation and monitoring progress of the different MDTF-funded activities,
approving annual work plans and budgets.

State Water Sector Coordination Committees (SWSCC): This committee was not established
due to lack of capacity in the states. However, each State Directorate of Water Supply and
Sanitation (SDWSS) under State Ministry, which is responsible for water and sanitation, was
the coordination unit in each specific State. Further, SDWSS was responsible to follow up
implementation, to provide support for the contractors and consultants, for the management of
activities at town, county and payam levels, follow up the establishment of Water and Sanitation
Committees (WSC), strengthen and support the existing WSCs, lead the operation and
maintenance activities at the state level.



                                                46
3.2 Project Implementation Arrangement

Safeguards: An Environmental and Social Assessment Framework (ESAF) was prepared in
May 2010 immediately after the effectiveness of the project. Implementation of ESAF has been
incorporated in all activities of WSSP and a sample mitigation plan of it is shown on Annex 7.
ESAF implementation under WSSP has been reflected during boreholes drilling, SWDS and
Haffir construction. Feasibility studies for water supply and sanitation facilities also incorporated
it as one of the scope of their works. At a later stage MWRI has also assigned a focal person
under the Directorate of Planning and Programmes in the Aid Management, Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit to undertake the required decisions on MWRI’s behalf.

Annual work plans: The annual work plans and budgets were prepared by the PMT (using July-
June Fiscal Year) after getting information from communities, payams, boma and counties that
was sent to and/or collected by the SDWSS. These annual work plans were submitted to WB for
approval. SDWSS prepared a priority list for projects to be included and financed by WSSP.
The priority list from each state was sent to PMT (delegated by SSWSSC) where the actual
project proposals were discussed and finalized. All PMT decisions were recorded and
documented.

Monitoring Agent: WB appointed monitoring agent that carried out regular monitoring
activities to the project and its findings have been recorded and documented in the Projects
Financial Management Unit (PFMU) within the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(MoFEP).

Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation: Implementation progress of WSSP was
monitored regularly by teams established by PMT as indicated on Annex 4. Each team consisted
of staff members from MWRI, TAST, SDWSS and County Commissioner Offices of each state.
Monitoring expenses were covered from operation account. Staff members from SDWSS stayed
at project sites more time to supervise physical project activities. Each monitoring activity was
reported and documented. Issues arising from monitoring visits and status of the implementation
were discussed in the weekly PMT and TAST meetings every Saturday and rectifying measures
were recommended and implemented.
WSSP was reporting to the WB on quarterly basis while the TAST was reporting on weekly,
monthly, quarterly basis. This Completion Report is also part of the reports submitted to the WB
that highlighted assessment project outputs, project objectives, performances of MWRI, WB,
contractors, consultants, and challenges faced during implementation and lessons learnt.
The MTR of the project, which was carried out in October 2011, made some revision in the sub-
component of the project and this ICR has been prepared in accordance to the revised project
development objective.

Financial Management: Due to limitations on capacity within the government agencies, all
project accounting activities were centralized within MoFEP. MoFEP established Project
Financial Management Unit (PFMU) to handle all financial matters relating to the MDTF for
South Sudan. Financial statements of WSSP have been audited yearly and audit reports are kept




                                                 47
within PFMU. In addition, unaudited financial statements have been prepared and furnished to
WB regularly as part of project reports.

Procurement: All goods, works and services for the project were procured in accordance to WB
“Procurement Guidelines?. In this regard, the procurement methods used for works were ICB,
NCB and Direct Contracting; for goods ICB, NCB and Procurement from United Nations
agencies; and for services SSS, IC and QCBS. PMT prepared and awarded a total of 55
contracts; 31 works, 11 goods and 11 (13) services’ contracts. The detail is shown on Annex 6.
Although, WB procurement guidelines have been used, some of the procurement processes
encountered challenges during the pre-bidding, during the bidding and post bidding time.
Overlooking the time required to prepare the basic requirements for tender documents such as
specifications, bill of quantities, drawings and terms of references. These had affected the
timeline for the procurement activities. Some bidders submitted poor quality bids that led to high
incidences of non-responsiveness due to failure of bidders to follow appropriate procedures such
as; asking for clarifications within the period allowed; completing relevant forms such as
contractors bid form; bid securing declaration forms before submitting their bids and late
collection of bid documents that led to submission of poor quality bids. It was also observed low
level of responsiveness to invitations to bid.

Change of some sites by some states after being agreed upon had delayed the mobilization of
      A former high ranking state official wanted a SWDS to go to his home which  some contracts that itself
 so happened to be in the middle of a cattle camp with about 7 households in its  results in loosing time in the
 vicinity. On visiting the site, MWRI-TAST members realized that just a few       process. In addition, some
 kilometers from the SWDS site was a highly populated Payam without running
 water! Therefore, it made social and economic sense for the SWDS to be           sites were not accessible due
 relocated to such an area. Needless to say, this was no minor task; as the State to rains and insecurity (border
 Governor had to be involved and convinced that eventually MWRI will have to      areas between South Sudan
 prove to the Monitoring Agents (MA) that the facility locations were “value for
 money?. After lengthy explanations and negotiations the issue was resolved and   and Sudan due to border
 the SWDS was relocated to serve more beneficiaries.                              skirmishes).

                                                                   Actions have been taken to
address the above mentioned challenges included that bidders were educated on how to complete
the bid documents. During the bidding period, bidders who purchased the bid documents were
shown on how to correctly complete the bid documents and the relevant forms to be submitted.
In some cases, bid submission period was extended to allow bidders more time to prepare and
submit quality bids. Invitation for bids (IFBs) were also advertised in the local newspapers,
government website, public notice boards, regional newspapers and in UNDB online in case of
ICB to attract more qualified bidders. These actions had relatively attracted qualified bidders.

Visibility and Visit: Donors visibility has been implemented in all project activities of WSSP
where it was appropriate. Sign post or banners were fixed at project sites or vehicles. Contractors
were responsible to fix the sign posts. Occasional visits to the project sites by Donors
representatives have been also facilitated by MWRI during the implementation of the project.




                                                       48
4. Assessment of the Project Outputs, Objective, Design, Implementation and Operation
   Experience

4.1 Project Outputs

The overall project output is rated as Satisfactory. The justification for overall output as
satisfactory is based on the achievements as indicated in Annex 1 and individual rating of each
component.

4.1.1 Water Supply Component:
The Water Supply Component is rated as Satisfactory. A total of 45 new boreholes (100%)
drilled and equipped with hand pumps, 235 existing boreholes rehabilitated, 300 existing
boreholes (100%) repaired, 18 new and 11 existing small water distribution systems constructed
and rehabilitated, 1 water distribution system (Lui) with treatment (100%) upgraded, the
construction of 1 new Haffir completed by the closing date of the project despite inaccessibility
of sites during the rainy season and contractors unwillingness to bid for certain contracts in tough
states and lack of proper construction supervision at the initial stage by the states. In addition, a
feasibility studies and detailed designs of water supply and sanitation facilities for the 3 and 4
towns completed.

Most of the boreholes have established new or revived existing water and sanitation management
committees that were elected by user communities. Where there are no water committees, at least
there is one focal person as hand pump caretaker for each facility. On the other hand, a public
private partnership (PPP) management is envisaged for small water distribution systems. For the
Haffir, a water users’ management committee has been initiated.

Rehabilitation and upgrading of Lui water supply system with treatment was initially planned to
                                                                    be implemented under RWSSP. However
  As plans were underway to demarcate the areas that Lui WSS
  would serve, communities on the other side of the river           due to lengthy negotiations with the
  complained that they have been left out as rightful beneficiaries contractor, including the need to review
  to the scheme. The left out community members campaigned for      the design proposals, the contract could
  MWRI to extend the services of the scheme to their areas. In the
  end, MWRI complied and made arrangements to extend the            not be signed on time and therefore the
  distribution to their area by 6 kilometers.                       project was transferred from RWSSP to
                                                                    WSSP. After Lui transferred to WSSP,
the project was initially supposed to be funded by both MDTF with community contribution.
However, MDTF WSSP grant agreement did not allow co-financing. So, it was meant that the
community contribution could not be embedded in the contract. MWRI overcame the challenge
by having a separate tripartite agreement with Constituency Development Fund (CDF) and the
Contractor. However, there was a challenge as at the time the community had already diverted
their funds elsewhere and could not honour their contractual obligation to pay the contractor on
time. MWRI again intervened and paid the contractor from its own resources.

4.1.2 Sanitation Component:

The Sanitation Component is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. 9 public latrines (90%), out of
the planned 10, have been completed in 9 states of the Republic of South Sudan. Initial plan to



                                                    49
construct 50 public latrines at the time of GA has been reduced to 10 due to unexpected price
escalation on construction materials and fuel in the country. This had led to revise the output and
cancellation of other subcomponents.

Feasibility Studies and Detailed                         The oxidation ponds’ studies were conducted at the time when there
Designs of Wastewater Treatment                          was serious shortage of fuel in the country, which was worst in Unity,
Systems (oxidation ponds) have been                      Western Bahr el Ghazal and Upper Nile States because of border
                                                         closure with North Sudan. This resulted in great difficulties in
completed for 7 towns (Kapoeta,                          reaching the designated sites. To make it worse, car rental prices in
Nimule, Maridi, Wau, Raja, Malakal,                      these states were literally increasing by the hour at that time!
and Renk) out of the planned 8 towns.                    Travelling by plane in places such as Wau was also a challenge. The
                                                         Consultant had to fly to Awiel first and then by car to Wau and
The study in Jikou cancelled due to                      Rajah. The frustration of waiting for a plane for long hours was
less number of beneficiaries. Land                       exacerbated by passengers being asked to pay extra fare to be
issue took excessive time to negotiate                   allowed in the plane!
with the communities and at some
towns resulted in delaying the detailed
design     activities  as    originally
anticipated.

                                                                     There has been also
  The public latrine construction in Terekeka, Central Equatoria State, had a shortfall of
                                                                     observation of change of
  a dedicated water supply. PMT-TAST therefore decided to ask a contractor to drill a
  borehole near the vicinity of the latrine as a source for water supply for the facility.
                                                                     site of the public latrines
  The next supervision visit was informed that the borehole works was complete, only to
                                                                     in some states like in
  realize that the borehole was 2km away from the latrine. On asking the contractor for
                                                                     Western Equatoria and
  an explanation, he informed PMT-TAST that the State officials ordered him to change
  the borehole drilling site because there was a community 2km away that was more in
                                                                     Upper Nile States or
  need of water than the public latrine facility. The situation was ultimately saved by the
                                                                     siting on wrong places
  discovery of an existing old borehole near the latrine; which was thereafter repaired to
  serve the purpose.                                                 (outside of the public
                                                                     areas) like in the case of
                                                                     Warrap State (although
this has been rectified later). These had contributed misunderstanding and delay in the
implementation within the initial agreed upon construction and completion time as decision has
to come from the local authorities.

4.1.3 Water Resources Technical Support Component:

The Water Resources Technical Support Component is rated as Satisfactory. All water quality
laboratories in 10 state capitals are established and equipped with laboratory equipment,
chemical reagents and portable water testing kits and 37 staff members from the states and
national ministries have been trained.

During implementation of this component, some supplies of equipment were delayed as a few
manufacturers could not meet the specifications required by the suppliers as specified by MWRI.
When suppliers started delivery, there appeared a shortage of storage space. This was later
addressed by renting of a warehouse to keep the items until they are dispatched to each specific
state.




                                                               50
4.1.4 Capacity Building Component:

The Capacity Building Component is rated as Highly Satisfactory. The rating was based on the
following achievements. All works of Amadi Rural Development Institute, under WSSP, have
been completed. All of the vehicles (11 of them) were provided to MWRI and all 10 SDWSS. In
addition, MWRI and all 10 SDWSS were provided with furniture & equipment, PCs, copiers and
generators, and all 10 SDWSS were provided with V-sats and hand pump spare parts.
                                             Under this component, a total of 319 persons have
                                                                                          been
                                              Some female participants had to attend   trained.
                                             trainings/workshops with infants and nannies for
                                             family reasons otherwise were forced to lose out the
                                                                                               As
                                             chance altogether. This had implications on project
                                             expenses related to travel logistics and       shown
                                             accommodation.
                                                                                               on
                                                                                           Annex
                                                                                           6, the
percentage of females is below the proposed 25%. The overall outcome indicates that only 18%
of the females had participated in the training/conferences/water events against 82% males.
Various parameters might have led to this discrepancy key among them being few females
having engaged in the formal education, a small percentage of this had studied technical
schools/colleges and a majority of them being from Arabic pattern. Given the fact that in South
Sudan, English is an official language, MWRI started to exert efforts in bringing up the standard
of English among the employees of the government prior to the project training activities; and a
number of Arabic background employees were enrolled into comprehensive English training
courses: 10 in Kampala-Uganda (3 males and 7 females), and in Juba 14 (6 males and 8 females).
Yet, these endavours did not help in overall female aggregates under the project training courses,
especially when come to the very technical courses such as drilling operations, a scenario that
has its genesis in the old Sudan policies where women, for instance were not allowed to join
department of survey in the higher institutions of learning. Therefore, while implementing
WSSP, MWRI was not able to nominate a reasonable number of female participants, because of
their educational backgrounds in technical areas such as solar technology, IT, drilling
supervision, WRM, laboratory technology and even the professional fora. But, it is clear that in
the other subjects such as public administration, financial management, clerical, secretariat and
social participation, female participation was significant.

4.1.5 Project Management Support and Strengthening MIS/Data Base Component:

The Project Management Support and Strengthening MIS/Data Base Component are rated as
Satisfactory. Instituting TA from the initial stage of WSSP was paramount for timely and
adequately implementation of WSSP. In this regard TA support was provided to PMT through a
Technical Assistant Support Team (TAST) from a consultancy firm and individual Programme
Support Consultants (PSCs). The TA to the PMT had focused in the areas of procurement,
financial accounting, supervision and monitoring.

The PMT was supported as well by Operating Costs for project expenses. Additionally,
monitoring teams at national and state levels were established and regular monitoring of project


                                               51
activities carried out using the teams as indicated on Annex 4. For the feasibility studies,
different key staff members from MWRI and states took part in the studies. This has improved
the involvement of states in the project implementation. Different reviewing teams, which were
constituted staff members from MWRI and different national ministries (like Ministry of
Housing and Physical Planning, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Health etc.) were also
established and the teams have reviewed different reports of feasibility studies for water supply
and sanitation facilities and provided feedback and recommendations to PMT’s decision.

All necessary data about different facilities have been regularly collected and entered in
prototype Management Information System (MIS) and Water supply database that was
developed under RWSSP. Staff members from the database also received technical support and
training for this purpose.

4.2 Project Objective
The Project Objective is rated as Satisfactory. After revision of the development project
objective, the project has benefitted about 400,000 people (101%) as compared to the envisaged
395,500 people as most of the outcomes were achieved at100% at the closing date of the project.
Despite this, the outcome of sanitation is much less as compared to the original outcome
indicator. Although it was necessary to revise the scope of the work for the sanitation component
according to the work plan, MTR did leave it as it was in the original figure.

4.3 Project Design
The Project Design is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The project was designed at the time
of the interim period and in the time of CPA implementation. Until the people of South Sudan
voted for secession in January 2011, which resulted in bringing an independent and sovereign
state of the Republic of South Sudan in July 2011, there was an atmosphere of political
uncertainty. The interim period was characterized with weak government structures and
institutions, lack of basic infrastructure and weak base economic activity.

WSSP was designed during the interim period to complement the efforts made by the RWSSP.
In this regard, WSSP was addressing the project objective through establishing facilities of water
supply and sanitation in both urban and rural areas, and building the capacities of MWRI and ten
SDWS.

The project design had quite a number of weaknesses. In some circumstances, there was
                                                          unrealistic estimate of preparation and
  In some States, a lot of time was lost by the
  Contractors in searching of borehole sites (new,        implementation, over optimism about the
  repair or rehabilitation) as they had to travel with    situation in South Sudan and under estimation of
  State authorities for confirmation and taking over of   the available capacity. Taking into account the
  sites . This exercise should have been established well
  before the contractor was on the ground.                above situations, inadequate capacity at the
                                                          beginning and delivery of outputs in the shortest
                                                          possible times, WSSP revised its procurement
plan several times based on the identified needs, changing situations and available time for the
implementation in order to achieve its objective.




                                                    52
4.4 Project Implementation

Project Implementation is rated as Satisfactory. Implementation of WSSP started a little prior
the closing of RWSSP. MWRI learnt a lot from that project and built its experience to gear
forward with WSSP. More participation at different levels occurred at different levels. Roles and
responsibilities cleared at the beginning, and decision on prioritization was mostly made at state
levels.

In order to achieve the PDO, project implementation considered the following aspects. The first
step was establishing technical assistance support systems within PMT like
supervision/monitoring teams, procurement and financial management. For overall financial
management, PFMU supported WSSP while operating account was managed internally.

In selecting the technology, its appropriateness has been assessed in terms of capacity by the
users to operate and manage it, and against its environmental & social impacts including conflict
mitigation over scarce available/created resources.

4.5 Sustainability

The Sustainability is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Although sustainability of facilities
created as a result of WSSP intervention requires some time in the future, efforts have been
already started at different levels such as preparation of road-maps, guidance
notes/administrative letters on the management of facilities/services, as-built drawings, O&M
manuals, etc., to improve and strengthen the supervision, monitoring, operation and maintenance
at institutional level, for instance, means of transportation (vehicles), means of communication
(V-sats, PCs and laptops), hand pump spare parts, etc have been provided to MWRI and all
SDWS. Water quality laboratories have been established and equipped for monitoring of quality
of water in each state. Although the need is still huge, different types of trainings have been
provided to upgrade and improve skills of staff.

At facility levels, like in the case of boreholes, WSMCs have been established, PPP has been
envisaged for SWDS and Water Users Committee for a Haffir.

Practical exercise was the first aspect of capacity building of staff for Lui when the construction
of the works was on going. MWRI assigned four technical staff to the site to learn and have first
hands on experience in the construction activities and the process of the facility. The second
aspect of capacity building was on job training in operation and maintenance.

For public latrines, a self sustaining management system based on commercial basis has been
envisaged. Some ground works are already undergoing like collecting info on the management
type of similar facilities in different towns.

Water quality laboratories have been designed to function on commercial basis for the services
they are providing. In this regard, they will charge for the services they render.

Strengthening of the database continues for informed planning and decision making processes at
the national and state levels.


                                                53
Under WSSP, MWRI has also invested in the Amadi Rural Development Training Institute
(RDI) to accommodate WASH training and research activities. This will improve both state and
county level technical skills in the water supply and sanitation sectors, including community
participation aspects. With support of the Dutch Government, MWRI is currently at a kickoff
stage towards operationalisation of the envisaged WASH related human resource development.
Among others, the NICHE programme of The Netherlands will provide equipment and facilitate
development of the curriculum, attachment of instructors, preparation of national tutors, etc for
various required Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) skills and knowledge at RDI.

5 Evaluation of MWRI’s own performance

MWRI’s own performance is rated as Satisfactory. MWRI through the PMT was the
implementing agency and coordinator with sector development partners. While implementing the
process of the Water Policy, MWRI was coordinating physical implementation of WSSP. Some
of the coordination activities with states included distributing of bids ahead of time, invitation to
project launching workshops and meetings and administrative letters on what type of staff to be
involved at national and state levels, etc before implementation started.

With the guidance of SSWSSC, MWRI has been able to formulate and published the WASH
Strategic Framework during WSSP and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Action and
Investment Plan, with sector development partners funding. The Water Act is also under
preparation in coordination with another sector development partner.

PMT with the support of TAST and PSCs was managing the day to day implementation
activities. Roles and responsibilities were identified and agreed upon right from the beginning in
order to achieve the objective of WSSP. Although some decisions were taken alone by the PMT
in very few circumstances and due to the time constraints, WSSP, most of the time, employed
much participatory approach with SDWS, local authorities, community representatives etc. as
compared to RWSSP.

Where implementation issues arisen, MWRI discussed them with all stakeholders and resolved
them in time and an example in this regard could be the change of project sites at state levels.
Fiduciary compliances were also observed despite liquidation of Operating Account that took
some time as there was a backlog and it was not done case by case.

6 Evaluation of the performance by the Bank or other partners

Evaluation of performance by the Bank is rated as Satisfactory. This rating was based on the
supervision support given by the Bank for timely implementation of WSSP through their formal
and informal technical supervision activities, provision of timely feedback after prior or post
review of procurement processing documents, supervision of fiduciary and safeguards
compliances. These supports have been provided throughout the implementation period of WSSP
and issues arisen have been transparently discussed and rectified in time. MWRI has now better
PMT than the time of RWSSP. The PMT can now confidently handle procurement process as it
has developed better capacity.



                                                 54
7 Challenges

•   Contractors could not easily acquire bank guarantees for advance payment due to
    unfavorable bank conditions in South Sudan like requirement of an equivalent amount of
    money as the bank guarantee requested.
•   A number of contractors were inexperienced in World Bank / international bidding and
    contractual requirements or guidelines.
•   Lack of community mobilization and sensitization before and during the implementation
    phase of the facilities.
•   Changing of the work quantity by state ministries that had implication on variation e.g.
    perimeter wall construction in EE state.
•   Changing the sites of the works e.g. Water Quality Laboratory in CE, SWDS in NBG and
    Public Latrine in Western Equatoria & Upper Nile States.
•   Contractors under-quoted due to lack of knowledge of the project areas, resulted from lack of
    pre-bidding site investigations. Another factor that contributed for this was that MWRI did
    not carry out prior feasibility studies. It had, therefore, resulted in using of generic
    specifications, bill of quantities and drawings.
•   MWRI was forced to contract to higher bidders for few contracts as most bidders were non-
    responsive for the bids due to lack of availability of qualified contractors/consultants in the
    country/region.
•   Land issues: Acquisition of land for the project was also a delaying factor in some project
    sites although the problems have been resolved with community dialogue and involvement.
•   The seasonal cycle in the country (the wet season) has significant impact on performance of
    contractors. Most contractors did not manage to complete the projects on time as initially
    planned due to poor infrastructure and inaccessibility of sites during the wet season. MWRI
    addressed the challenges by extension of the period of performance as requested by the
    contractors.
•   Some laboratories had no water supply and sanitation facilities as these were expected to be
    available at the site where they were constructed. The project made variation orders to the
    existing contract to avail water and sanitation services at laboratories devoid of these services.
•   Inadequate experienced and qualified national staff to effect supervision and lack of
    incentives for the national staff.
•   Inadequate office and storage space at national and states levels.
•   Level of payment of the DSA rate for internal and external visits and trainings sometime
    created misunderstanding between the trainees and the project.
•   Due to limited local trainers, the training of personnel in some areas particularly the highly
    specialized areas was just too expensive. This was brought about by the demand to hire such
    trainers from other countries as far as Europe to come and conduct the training locally.
•   Finances and Administration: Delays in replenishment of the operating account and the
    release of funds for training activities, conferences etc. did affect smooth implementation of
    activities such as advertising for tenders, arrangements for field trips etc. The timely
    processing of payment requests was also a challenge in particular for the capacity building
    activities, i.e. regional training activities and conferences, especially, where payment for
    registration fees has to be made directly to institutions. This led to delays in the execution of
    the training program and discontent with the participants.



                                                 55
•   Overall work environment-affecting efficiency: The overall working environment and
    circumstances for both the PMT and TAST had been a challenge throughout the
    implementation of WSSP:

      o It is important to recognize the complexities of operating in South Sudan. For instance,
        the period leading towards the referendum and transition towards independence did
        generally slow down progress, as contractors were cautious in field implementations.
      o Poor infrastructure, low and inadequate capacities especially at state level;
      o Frequent interruptions and at times total absence of internet connection;
      o Increased power outages (poor city supply, break down of the generators, fuel shortage
        in Juba);
      o An estimated further 35% to 40% of the TAST time and efforts had to be spent on
        finalizing/closing the various RWSSP contracts, which was not anticipated.

8 Lessons learned

The lessons that have been learnt so far from the design, inception, administration,
implementation and management of the WSSP are:
•   It is planned that the laboratories will to some extent operate on a commercial basis. MWRI
    will propose modalities on how to make the management of the laboratories sustainable.
•   Proper planning for SWDS is required such that the dry season should be left for actual
    construction only. MWRI should carry out feasibility studies before preparing tender
    documents.
•   Carry out pre-bid site visits. Preparations of complete detailed designs should be done and
    community mobilization should be carried out prior to tender documentation.
•   The contractor for Lui was selected on a single source selection basis. This was done because
    the feasibility study was done by the contractor and therefore they had an in-depth
    knowledge of the project besides their construction experience in the country. While this
    might have an appropriate procedure to shorten the procurement process, but in future it will
    be advisable to conduct feasibility studies and design and construction separately through
    competitive bidding for similar types of facilities.
•   On the other hand, increased WB support to the water sector is motivating the private sector
    to bring in suitable equipment and technology to meet the challenges of tapping deeper
    aquifers as there is an increased application of geophysical methods to locate groundwater.
•   It has been observed that there are some boreholes which give 5 or more cubic meters per
    hour which can be upgraded and installed with motorized pumps especially with institutional
    boreholes.
•   There is a need of a sociologist or community mobilizer in the implementation of such kind
    of programmes. These persons should be local and positioned at the national ministry and
    state ministries.




                                               56
Project Design
The underestimation of project design and implementation vis a vis the allocated project time
period deserves serious thought. Especially as this led to unrealistic high expectations in
delivery of outputs in the shortest possible time;

Outstanding RWSSP activities
Completion of some works signed under RWSSP were delayed due to difficulties of access to
some sites e.g. in Jonglei, Upper Nile, and Unity States. Consequently, some of these contracts
had to be extended a number of times, which required additional unforeseen workloads from the
PMT and TAST that should have been spent on the WSSP. There was an under estimation of
time required to wind up outstanding RWSSP activities.

Stringent tender qualification and evaluation criteria
Though with few modifications, the Bank administered WSSP by using their procurement
guidelines and procedures for loan products, in their effort to safeguard the client (i.e. MDTF),
the Bank expected bid conditions and requirements which are similar to bid procedures in more
advanced and better developed countries to be met by the prospective bidders in South Sudan. At
the same time, local and regional contractors are not familiar with Bank conditions, requirements
and procedures, since the Bank has had no continuing projects or programs in Sudan (South
Sudan) for many years. As a result, compliance to these conditions caused serious problems, for
instance international banks’ refusal or at the least are very reluctant to secure bank guarantees
for projects in Sudan (South Sudan).

A lot of PMT and TAST efforts were directed at sharing opportunities to as many prospective
bidders as possible through international advertisements. The response had in certain instances
been poor to a greater extent, translating to non-award of contracts. For instance, the initial
bidding for Lots 1-5 for water points constructions (boreholes drilling and SWDSs) with an
estimated cost of USD 8.5 million through international competitive bidding (ICB) yielded only
8 responses that, after evaluation, none were successful. Most bidders could not meet the Banks’
procurement requirements such as bid security, the required average annual construction
turnover and specific experience. Subsequently, the tender was repackaged into 20 Lots – 10 lots
for boreholes drilling/rehab/repairs only and 10 lots for construction/rehab of SWDSs – with less
stringent conditions, and re-advertised. This resulted in considerable project implementation
delays and unforeseen extra inputs from the TAST. Also, the procurement process for purchasing
of vehicles failed in two attempts as none of the prospective bidders met the requirements
including supply of manufacturer’s authorization and financial capability status. The condition
was only salvages when UNOPS agreed to purchase the vehicles using their procurement
procedures on behalf of the Ministry. It was also noticed that by just simplifying of the
conditions for the bids and avoiding lots of scope of the works in a single lot attracted more
bidders to participate.

Disbursement rate
At the Project’s initial end date (30 June 2011) less than 15% of the project investment budget
had been committed/contracted. Clearly the projected one-year WSSP project duration was
underestimated (i) to prepare/design, (ii) to specify tender documents, (iv) to tender, (v) to
evaluate, (vi) to contract, (vii) supervise the actual implementation, and (viii) to build in extra



                                                57
time to mitigate foreseeable and unforeseen potential delays due to factors outside the scope and
control of PMT and TAST.

Approval periods
Approvals on the TAST prepared tender documents at times took long to get approval from the
Bank. This appeared to be caused by the stringent Bank guidelines and conditions required to
qualify prospective contractors.

Availability of staff during tender evaluation
For each tender evaluation, a team of staff was usually formed comprising MWRI staff and
TAST members. However, during follow up meetings to finalize the reports, there was a
tendency of inconsistence attendance on the part of MWRI staff leading to delays in submission
of the evaluation reports. This was vested in the fact that, some staff especially
technical/professional cadre were assigned on an ad hoc basis to project activities while still
required to fulfill their other duties within the ministry.

Additional requested project activities
From time to time, and in line with the project ToR, the MWRI/PMT did call upon individual
TAST experts for contributions to specific MWRI issues (such as Development of GAP; WASH
Strategic Framework etc.), which also sometimes affected the full time engagement of the TAST
member on WSSP project implementation schedule. Further it should be remarked that due to
MWRI understaffing and overload of daily operations, regular TAST-PMT meetings and other
consultative meetings were held during weekends, i.e. on Saturdays and sometimes Sundays.
Compensation in the form of paid leave days for this overtime was considered reasonable and
desirable.

9 Recommendations

Project Design
The current projects have been designed in the context of post-conflict recovery and
reconstruction concepts. Future projects should be based on priorities of the RSS WASH
Strategic Framework as opposed to individual donor priorities, and designed in the context of a
long-term development perspective.
Given that groundwater is a major source of water for domestic use, thorough geological,
hydrogeological and geophysical surveys are necessary before carrying out drilling operations. In
the project, this activity has not been exhaustive enough to gather sufficient information for
decision making as contractors mobilized both the geophysical survey and drilling teams
simultaneously, giving little room for detailed data analysis as the drilling rig is on standby
waiting to commence drilling. This has created problems with beneficiaries when a
Hydrogeologist indicates that chances of getting water are slim. This approach has also limited
the budget for geophysical surveys.

Water supply system with treatment in peri-urban areas: MWRI need to take attention at Lui
water supply system with a treatment as it is among the very few in the small peri-urabn setting
of the country and this type of system will provide useful learning lessons to MWRI for future
applications in terms of construction, design, and operation and maintenance aspects.



                                               58
Overall work environment-affecting efficiency
Develop ‘communication function’ of MWRI to reinforce decentralization process (e.g. proper
website management, establish information hubs at State levels, dissemination of key documents
such as reports, contracts, strategy documents). This also includes assuring timely payment of
subscriptions for Internet and website hosting services.
Review and recommend improvements of adequate workspace and creation of appropriate
working environment especially at national level.

Tender qualification and evaluation criteria
The Bank would be well advised to revisit their procurement guidelines and procedure in light of
the existing capacity of local and regional contractors operating in South Sudan. Implementing
tailored procurement procedures and evaluation criteria will empower such contractors to
provide the different services required by the project and will also improve the overall rate of
disbursements.

Financial issues
PMT/MWRI treasury should become more active and involved; in disbursing and accounting for
the expenditures concerning the costs (travel costs-DSA) for training and/or conferences etc.

Capacity Development
 An updated training needs assessment for staff at national and state levels (linked to information
available with personnel/HR department, job descriptions, academic qualifications) to determine
nature of training (long-term, short-term, in-service) seems to be needed. WB can take a
proactive position in building capacity of private sector competitiveness in public procurement
through seminars, workshops and training.
Increased WB support to the water sector will motivate the private sector to bring in suitable
equipment and technology to meet the challenges. The growing drilling industry needs
groundwater investigation equipment to determine deeper aquifers than being exploited now and
bigger rigs to reach those depths.

The full report from the Government of South Sudan is available in the project files.




                                                59
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Comments on ICR WSSP
  • The report is a valuable analysis and summary of performance, constraints and lessons
    learned.
  • The report identifies clearly key constraints, particularly at the onset and design phase of
    the project.
  • Below please find comments on the ICR. Some of the comments are questions for
    clarification on specific parts of the report:

Financial Information
   • Table G: Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs lists that the actual disbursement as at
       12/07/2012 is US$23.22m. It is assumed that this is the disbursement at the given date. It
       is further assumed that the ICR refers to implementation status at end of implementation.
       Would it not be preferred if the ICR refers to final total disbursement for the rating on
       disbursements? Alternatively at least it should refer to figures from end Dec 2012 instead
       of beginning of Dec 2012? This assumes that disbursements after end of Dec are in line
       with the closing procedures.
   • How does the figure given in this Table relate to the figures provided in the financial
       status reports? The Dec 2013 Financial Status Report gives US$24.49m as cumulative
       disbursement and the Feb 2013 Financial Status Report the cumulative disbursement is
       reported with US$29.997m. The Feb 2013 report would imply almost 100%
       disbursement and would change the rating.
   • The report does not refer to actual expenditure. It does list commitments, but not
       expenditures. I assume this goes back to old discussions cut-off date of and date for
       finalization for ICR?!

   •   The narrative on review of project does not give enough explanation on drastically
       reduction of funds on component 2 – sanitation. The government report gives more
       details on this. However, with a reduction from over US$5m to ca. US$0.8m the WB ICR
       should probably provide more explanation on this and the rational of redistribution to
       other components.

Sustainability
Operationalization and management of facilities
   • There are discussions on sustainability of interventions in different parts of the document
       particularly focusing on systems provided by government which would guarantee
       operation and management of facilities provided by WSSP (p.17, 2.5 and 4. Assessment
       of Risk). These discussions are held too general and do not provide enough information
       on:
   • How the project tried to mitigate risks
   • Why operation and management strategy was not put in place prior to construction of
       facilities (or if there was a management strategy).
   • MWRI reported several times during meetings that they are developing manuals and it
       sounded like it was


                                               60
   •   In my opinion a valued lesson would be here that any support to hardware should be
       supposed with sufficient support on software side. The current ICR reads as if the relation
       between support to hardware and software were not adequate. There were other reasons
       which led to the lack of systems at end of implementation, but it would need to be
       explained clearly.
   •   The report currently reads that it would not be responsibility of WSSP to have addressed
       the matter. One part of the problem is certainly the problems at design phase, which are
       mentioned at different sections of the document.

Technical support to Ministry
   • One interesting aspect for the report would be analysis on impact of technical support
       provided to Ministry and sustainability of management systems set up given the fact that
       technical support to Ministry will not continue to MWRI after the project e.g.:
           o Did MWRI provide adequate counterparts to technical support to ensure?
           o How did the TAs perform in terms of knowledge transfer to Ministry staff?
           o How much of the work was done by the Ministry staff at beginning and at end of
              project (did TAs just took over the duties or was there a gradual handing over
              from TAs to ministry staff)?

Annex 2 – Outputs by Component
   • The percentage under the output section of Component 1 does not make sense looking at
      the targets provided under the narrative e.g. narrative gives a total of 90 boreholes,
      achieved outputs give 45 boreholes and 100%. In table the revised targets are given, but
      this part in the narrative is very confusing.
   • Narratives under other components refer to revised targets.


General question on ICRs
As they are valuable analysis of lessons learned for the sector they should be made available for
development partners in the sector. Will they be shared?
The assumption is that all ICRs report on donor and government contribution?!




                                               61
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Proposal Document. December, 2009.
Grant Agreement.
Project Papers on Restructuring.
Amendments to the Grant Agreement.
Project Supervision Aides-Memoire
Project Implementation Status and Results Reports.
Project Financial Reports
Project Procurement Plans
Draft Independent Final Evaluation of the MDTF-SS




                                            62
                                                                                                                28˚E                                    30˚E                                                    32˚E       To                                        34˚E
            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                             Khartoum
            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                Renk

             0         50          100           150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                             SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                        To                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                      Kadugli                                                                                      Ed Damazin
             0                50                     100                 150 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH
                                                                                        To                   To
                                                                                                          Babanusa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUDAN
                                                                                       Nyala

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Paloich
                                                              Arab
                                                     Bahr el '
           10˚N              To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10˚N
                            Nyala                                                                                                                                                                                                UPPER NILE
                                                                                                                             ABYEI                                                                                     Kodok

                                                                                                                              Abyei                                     l Ghazal
                                                                                                 NORTHERN                                                       Ba h r e                                    Malakal
                                                                                                  BAHR AL                                                Bentiu
                                                                                           Lol    GHAZAL

                                                                                                                                                  UNITY                                                                                                                       ETHIOPIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        So
                                                                                                                               Jur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ba
                                                                                                      Aweil                                                                                                                                     Nasser




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t
                                                                                                                                                                                          f
                                                                                                                                                                                      ara
                                                                     Raga




                                                                                                                                                                             Bahr ez Z
                                     I                                                                                                      Meshra’
                                         r                                                                                    Warab                                                                                    Waat
                                             o
           8˚N                                   n                                                                                                                                             Ayod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8˚N
                                                      s                                                                               WARAB
                                                          t
                                                              o
                                                                    po




                                                                     o
                                                                  n S
                                                                                                          Wau
                                                                                                                                               N u b i a n                                                                                    Akobo
                                                                    e
                                                                                WESTERN                                                                                                                                                                       Ak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                JONGLEI
                                                                             BAHR AL GHAZAL                                           Ton




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                         P




                  CENTRAL
                                                                                            go
                                                                         l




                                                                                                                                                                                    Shambe
                                                                             a




                                                                                                                                                  LAKES
                                                                                         Pon




                  AFRICAN
                                                                             t
                                                                                 e




                                                                                                                                                      Rumbek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pibor
                                                                                 a




                  REPUBLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                     u




                                                                                                              Sue




                                                                                                                                                                                              hite
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nil




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                     e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6˚N
                        SOUTH SUDAN
                      WATER AND                                                        To
                                                                                                      Tambura
                                                                                                                                                                                                         CENTRAL
                                                                                                    Li Yubu                            WESTERN
                      SANITATION                                                     Djema
                                                                                                                                      EQUATORIA                                                       EQUATORIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EASTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EQUATORIA
                       PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5˚N
                                                                                                                                               Maridi                                                      JUBA                                               Kapoeta
                                                                                                                            Yambio
                            CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                     Torit
                            WILAYAH (STATE) CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                t o n g
                                                                                                                                                                                              I m o                              M t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s .
                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                   D.R. OF CONGO                                                                                                                    Kinyeti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KENYA
                            RIVERS                                                   4˚N                                                                                                                                                                                                        4˚N
                                                                                                                                                                            Yei                                                  (3187 m)
                            MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 40033
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nimule
                            RAILROADS                                                                                To
                                                                                                                    Isiro                                                                                                     UGANDA
MAY 2013




                            WILAYAH (STATE) BOUNDARIES
                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           28˚E                                     30˚E                                                    32˚E                                                  34˚E
