FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P - 1638-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE
MEKNES AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 23, 1975
This report was.prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (DH)
DE 1  - U4Z$.242
Ub$ 1     DI 4.114
E&change rate fluctuatea with weighted
average of major currencies; rate used
in appraisal Report is US$1 = DH L.14
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR THE MEKNES
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$14 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms, to help finance the Meknes Agricultural Develop-
ment Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Morocco" (R329 MOR, dated February 7, 1974) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on March 6, 1974. The report and the following discussion of the
economy are based on the findings of an economic mission which visited Morocco
in September 1973. An updating economic mission visited Morocco in March and
April 1'975, but has not yet completed its findings. Country data are attached
as Annex I.
Past Developments
3.        The overall performance of the Moroccan economy improved during the
Second Five-Year Plan (1968-72), despite difficult political circum5tances in
1971 and 1972. Aided by favorable weather conditions and good crops in 1968,
1971 and 1972, real GDP growth accelerated from an average annual rate of
about 3 percent in 1960-67 (barely above the rate of population growth) to
5.6 percent in 1968-72, thus exceeding the modest Plan target of 4.3 percent,
and permitting real gains in private per capita consumption of about 2 percent
a year though in the rural sector the benefits accrued mainly to larger farm-
ers. At the same time, the implementation of prudent fiscal and monetary
policies contributed to a significant improvement in Morocco's domestic and
external financial situation, despite shortfalls on planned capital inflows
from official external sources. Government saving and investment exceeded
slightly the modest Plan targets, while price stability was maintained. Fol-
lowing a decade of recurring deficits, the balance of payments registered a
surplus in 1969-72, mainly because of sharply rising receipts from merchandise
exports, tourism and remittances by Moroccan workers in Europe. At the end
of 1972, Morocco had accumulated net foreign assets of DH 1.3 billion, equiva-
lent to 3.5 months' imports of goods and non-factor services at 1972 levels;
these rose further to the equivalent of more than 5 months by the end of 1973.
4.        Although the acceleration of GDP growth in 1968-72 was in part due
to generally favorable weather conditions, it appears that the economy has
moved onto a path of more rapid long-term growth. Agriculture, export in-
dustries, tourism and sectors with derived demand (energy, transportation,



- 2 -
communications and modern services) seem to have acquired a capacity for sus-
tained growth. In agriculture, expansion of irrigation, increased use of key
inputs in rainfed areas (improved seeds, fertilizers and timely ploughing) and
a large number of trained extension personnel have generated faster growth of
output. In the export sector, the phosphate company (OCP) has regained
leadership in the world market as a result of internal reorganization and
investment carried out during the Second Plan and the Export Trade Company
(OCE), which has a monopoly over Morocco's exports of fresh and processed
foodstuffs, hab acquired considerable dynamism in management and marketing.
Further, a relatively broad range of industries, including some sub-contract-
ing companies, have emerged with a good competitive position and sizeable
sales on external markets.
5.        These achievements should not detract attention, however, from the
serious difficulties which Morocco still had to overcome at the end of the
Second Plan period. There was a need to revive private investment, which had
stagnated in 1971 and 1972 mainly because investors adopted a cautious atti-
tude in the light of political developments and the expectation of new incen-
tives and new regulations regarding the association of Moroccan and foreign
capital in business ventures ("marocanisation" laws). There was also a need
to increase private savings, which remained at an insufficient level, in part
because of the relatively low returns on domestic financial assets. Finally,
the Government would have to increase investment capacity in the public sector
by appropriate changes in staffing and organization.
6.        Difficult social problems also had to be tackled.   Unemployment
remained at a high level, averaging 9 percent of labor force nationwide and
ranging between 12 and 16 percent in large urban centers. The proportion of
urban population in substandard housing was large and rising. Wealth and
income differences between cities and villages, among regions, and between
rich and poor were widening, while about one third of the rural population
in the less fertile agricultural areas were experiencing a slow decline in
real consumption.
Long-Term Development Prospects
7.        Recognizing these difficulties and problems, the Government began
in 1971 to revise its development policies, paying increasing attention to
social objectives. Reflecting the changed orientations, the Third Five-Year
Plan (1973-77) aims at:
-    achieving a real GDP growth of 7.5 percent per year between
1973 and 1977, mainly through a 10 percent a year rise in
exports and a doubling of investment over the Plan period;
and
-    improving distribution of growth benefits, mainly through
further land distribution to poor farmers and more emphasis
on rainfed farming in agriculture, the association of Moroccan
nationals with foreigners in services and several industrial



- 3 -
sub-sectors, large increases in Government spending on social
services and low-cost housing, a more progressive tax system,
and appropriate changes in wages and in the prices of basic
agricultural commodities.
Departing from the previously strict financial orthodoxy, the Plan calls for
an expansionary fiscal policy and a more liberal credit policy, accepting the
risk of less price stability. It recognizes that, in spite of faster economic
growth, increased public works and continued emigration, unemployment may
rise in absolute, and perhaps also in relative, terms because the growth of
the working-age population is accelerating (from 2 percent a year in the
1960's to 4 percent a year in the 1970's).
8.        In accordance with its export-oriented strategy, the Plan gives
priority to sectors contributing to exports; these include phosphate mining
and processing by the state-owned phosphate company (OCP), as well as other
mining, agriculture, fishing, food processing, subcontracting industries,
tourism and transportation. This priority is reflected in the allocation of
Government resources to investment in these sectors, and in the measures in-
troduced in August 1973 to provide better incentives to industrial exports
and private investment. Achievement of the Plan's export targets will depend
on further expansion in some export sectors, which is being carried out, and
on the strength of external demand. External demand for Moroccan phosphate
rock has risen continuously in 1974, and the average price per ton received by
Morocco increased from about $13 in 1973, to around $40 in the first half of
1974 and to more than $60 in the second half. However, due to the supply
response of other producers, the price per ton may decline substantially over
the period 1975-80. Demand for other Moroccan goods and services may also
weaken over the next few years as a result of the economic slowdown in devel-
oped countries. On balance, real export growth, which exceeded Plan expecta-
tions in 1973, may probably be somewhat below Plan targets during most of
1974-77, while in current prices export receipts will exceed substantially
the level envisaged in the Plan.
9.        The Plan proposes significant changes in the investment strategy
designed to increase labor intensity, and improve the situation of less
favored groups of society and less developed areas of the country. Education,
health and housing, together receive a significantly higher share of planned
Government investment (23 percent) than during the Second Plan (11 percent).
Among sectors, the main change concerns agriculture, for which the Plan re-
duces emphasis on dam construction, and favors on-farm irrigation development,
intensification of rainfed cropping, improvement of animal husbandry and
implementation of land reform. New incentives for private investment are
less biased in favor of imported equipment than the previous system and en-
courage efficient operations and location in less developed areas. In view
of the higher-than-planned level of export receipts (and domestic saving), the
Government is carrying out an upward revision of investment targets, the de-
tails of which are not yet available.



- 4 -
10.       In changing its investment strategy, Morocco is breaking new ground,
and significant shortfalls or, planned investment could well be experienced in
new priority sectors as a result of staffing and organizational constraints,
which can only be relieved gradually. Shortfalls will probably affect mainly
rainfed cropping, livestock production, low-cost housing and tourism infra-
structure. In addition, most of 1973 was lost for the revival of private
investment, since the new incentives were introduced only in August, and the
start of new public investment programs was delayed, since the Plan was is-
sued only in July. However, indications are that investment picked up at a
fast pace in 1974.
11.       Despite the acceleration of investment and related import growth,
financial resources are not expected to be a constraint in the medium term,
provided increased inflows of official assistance are achieved. The strength-
ening of the balance of payments since 1969 has continued in 1973, and the
steep rise in the price of phosphate in 1974 has enabled the country to offset
the increase in the import billl due to higher prices, in particular for
petroleum. This favorable situation, however, may be eroded in later years,
since the price of phosphate is likely to decline, while prices of imports
and import requirements will keep rising. Nonetheless, until the end of the
Plan period, phosphate and other exports, and worker's remittances, together
with the expected increase in capital inflows, should provide enough foreign
exchange to meet import requirements and maintain reserves at a sufficient
level. On the domestic side, the phosphate company (OCP) will be able to
make large, additional remittances to the Government, which should help fi-
nance public investment in a non-inflationary manner. However, the Govern-
ment will have to proceed with planned tax measures in order to make the tax
system more responsive to economic growth and more equitable, and with planned
improvements of the capital market to facilitate the mobilization of private
saving and' the financing of private investment.
12.       The financial situation may become more difficult beyond 1977, if
the predicted trends in exports (with no further gains from phosphate prices)
and import requirements continue. To prepare for this eventuality, Morocco
needs to increase, as planned, the level of external borrowing on favorable
terms from official sources, and this will require improved project prepara-
tion. At the end of 1973, Morocco's external debt amounted to an estimated
$977 million excluding undisbursed amounts. Service payments during 1973 re-
presented only 8 percent of goods and non-factor services exports. Although
long-term prospects are for more pressure on the balance of payments than at
present and a considerable rise in the debt service ratio, to perhaps about
20 percent of exports by the mid-1980's, Morocco can service substantial ad-
ditional debt.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
13.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 22 projects with
financing totalling $519 million (net of cancellations), of which $291 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY 73. IDA credits, totalling $36.8 mil-
lion, have been made available for four projects. IFC investments have
amounted to $1.5 million.   Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1975, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays have been caused by
management or procurement difficulties, and recently the risk of cost overruns
has increased due to the upsurge in investment activity in Morocco and the
recent acceleration of inflation. However, performance in project execution
has usually been good.
14.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the industrial and
agricultural sectors, which together have accounted for two thirds of total
net commitments; the balance is accounted for by utilities (15 percent), roads
(9 percent), tourism (5 percent) and education (4 percent). Apart from the
transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group net commitments amounted to 9.5
percent of total fixed investment over the second Five Year Plan, 1968-72),
the main objectives of lending were to foster and strengthen development
institutions, provide technical assistance, particularly for project prepara-
tion, and increase productive capacity, particularly in order to improve the
balance of payments.
15.       While these objectives remain, emphasis is now also being given to
supporting the new orientation of the Government's development effort in the
field of income distribution. Future Bank lending will reflect this orienta-
tion. Increased shares of Bank Group lending will be devoted to agriculture,
education and urbanization, mainly at the expense of industry. The overall
volume of lending will continue to increase, although not so rapidly as in
the past, in the light of Morocco's present improved external resource posi-
tion arising from the sharp increase in phosphate prices.   No further IDA
lending is contemplated beyond the credit proposed in this report.
16.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development
and credit. While continued lending for irrigation is envisaged, greater
emphasis will be given to supporting the improvement of rainfed farming and
lending will in general be focussed on support to small farmers. A large
project, to complete irrigation development which is possible using existing
diversion structures on the Oum-er-R'bia river, is to be appraised shortly and
Joint financing with the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development is
envisaged. Projects for livestock/rural development in a rainfed zone in
northern Morocco and for agricultural credit are also being prepared.
17.       Continued lending for industry and tourism through two DFC's (Banque
Nationale pour le Developpement Economique and Credit Immobilier et Hotelier)
will be proposed. A project for the construction of a large cement plant in
the less developed northeast part of the country has been appraised, and Joint



- 6 -
financing of this project with the Arab Fund is also envisaged. As Executing
Agency for a UNDP-financed study, the Bank is helping to prepare a tourism
infrastructure project which would alleviate the scarcity of improved land
for hotel development in the Agadir region. Projects in these sectors help
to raise foreign exchange earnings and help improve sectoral policies.
18.       A first sites and service project, to be located in Casablanca, is
being prepared. It will aim at making a major contribution to solving the
problem of rapid growth of slum areas. A substantial social services com-
ponent to the project is envisaged. The Bank is Executing Agency for project
preparation being financed by UNDP; UNDP is also providing technical assist-
ance for overall planning of the sector. A second water supply project is
being prepared by the Government, to meet the needs of several urban and
rural centers. A third highway project would induce further policy changes
in the transport sector. A multipurpose development, mainly for power but
also with substantial irrigation and industrial and potable water supply
benefits, located in the Oum-er-Rbia river, is being prepared.
19.       Education is a critical bottleneck in Morocco's development.    Two
IDA credits have been made to improve technical and vocational training. Fol-
lowing a UNESCO project identification mission, in the framework of the Bank-
UNESCO Cooperative Programme, which visited the country in September 1973,
a third project has just been appraised.
20.       A consultative group for Morocco was formed in April 1967 under the
chairmanship of the Bank. It includes Belgium, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Spain, the U.K., the U.S., IMF, UNDP, OECD/DAC, the
African Development Bank and the European Investment Bank. The last meeting
of the Group, on March 28 and 29, 1974, expressed satisfaction with the im-
provement in Morocco's economic performance in recent years, and the emphasis
in the Third Five-Year Plan (1973-77) on improving the distribution of growth
benefits. The next meeting of the Group is scheduled to take place 4n 1976.
The gross inflow of official loans and grants to Morocco rose from $129 mil-
lion in 1966 to $159 million (of which $18 million in grants) in 1971, but
temporarily fell to $138 million in 1972 and $115 million in 1973. The major
sources of aid were France, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group.
21.       At the end of 1973, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's external
public debt was estimated at 13.4 percent on a disbursement basis. The share
of the Bank Group in debt service was 11.2 percent in 1973. By the end of
the 1970's the Bank Group's share in public debt and debt service is expected
to rise to about 20 percent.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN MOROCCO
22.       Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Morocco.
An average of six million ha are presently cultivated each year, of which
about 1/2 million ha are perennially irrigated. About 55 percent of the



- 7 -
labour force is directly dependent upon agriculture for a livelihood. Until
the recent rise in phosphate prices, the sector contributed about one third
of GDP and accounted for over half of merchandise exports. Poor performance
of the agricultural sector in the decade after Independence contributed to
general economic stagnation, while in the years 1967-72 more rapid growth of
agriculture - mainly because previous large investments in the modern sector
began to bear fruit - was accompanied by overall expansion. Despite past
development of irrigation, performance of the sector is very sensitive to the
substantial variations in annual rainfall which affect much of the country.
In 1972/3 and again in 1974/5, inadequate rainfall seriously affected crop
production and, it is expected, overall growth performance, despite rapid
expansion in mining and manufacturing.
23.       The Government's intervention in the agricultural sector until
recently concentrated on the expansion of irrigated farming. During the
Second Five Year Plan, 26 percent of total Government development expenditure
was devoted to dams and irrigated farming. Under the Third Five-Year Plan,
this share is planned to decline to about 14 percent. Greater attention is
being given to improvement of rainfed agriculture, livestock production,
training, improvement of the extension service, credit to small farmers,
research and marketing. Farmgate prices were sharply increased in December
1973, and again in November 1974, to encourage the production of cereals,
sugar, edible oil seeds and dairy products.
24.       In many parts of the country, the small size and fragmentation of
holdings, and complex traditional tenure systems, frequently involving joint
ownership, have been major obstacles to improving agricultural productivity.
The Government has taken various measures to overcome these problems, and to
encourage the adoption of modern cultivation methods, particularly on lands
with high production potential. First, under legislation introduced in 1962,
the Government has successfully started a program of land consolidation;
during the Second Five Year Plan, 1968-72, 80,000 ha benefitted. Secondly,
the Government has acquired land, previously held by foreigners, for distribu-
tion to the rural poor, both small farmers and landless. Two hundred and
twenty thousand ha were acquired between 1963 and 1965, and legislation
passed in 1973 provided for the acquisition of at least a further 326,000 ha.
Under a law of 1966 (amended in December 1972) the Government is distributing
this and other state-owned land to Moroccan farmers meeting competence,
poverty, age and character criteria. Recipients are obliged to renounce all
other rights to land and to join a Government-sponsored cooperative. Some
180,000 ha were distributed by the end of 1972, and the Plan target is to
distribute a further 395,000 ha by end 1977. Thirdly, the Agricultural
Investment Code enacted in 1969 gave powers to the Government to organize
agricultural development in irrigated areas. The Code provides for transforma-
tion of some tribal land into individually held freehold plots, prevents
excessive fragmentation of holdings, and obliges farmers to follow a cropping
pattern in exchange for various subsidies.
25.       The legislation as a whole has been carefully designed to ensure
that changes in the tenure system, particularly the transfer of foreign-owned
farms to small Moroccan farmers, do not lead to declines in productivity.



Implementation, however, is complex and slow due to the limits of the Govern-
ment's administrative capacity. So far the land reform program has touched
only a very small proportion of poor farmers (about 1 percent), and this
proportion will rise to only about 5 percent with the implementation of the
1973-77 program. Moreover, its impact has been concentrated in the irrigated
areas.
26.       Government activity in the agricultural sector in Morocco is the
primary responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(MARA). The Ministry's activities are concentrated in the central Director-
ates of Agricultural Development and of Equipment, in provincial services
which serve rainfed areas, and in largely autonomous regional development
offices (ORMVA's) for irrigated areas. There are also three public institu-
tions with country wide responsibilities in the sector: The National Agri-
cultural Credit Bank (CNCA), the Cereals and Pulses Office (OCICL) and the
Export and Trade Company (OCE). Two state-owned companies are responsible for
managing the land acquired by the Government from foreigners, prior to its
eventual distribution under the land reform programme; the Farm Development
Corporation (SODEA), established in 1972, is primarily responsible for
managing plantations while Agricultural Land Management Corporation (SOGETA),
established in 1973, is primarily responsible for managing the annual crop
land acquired from foreign owners in March 1973.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
27.       The project is located in the Province of Meknes, in central
Morocco. Because of limited water availability and generally undulating
topography, the potential for increasing irrigated agriculture is not great
in this region. However, the region contains some of the best rainfed agri-
cultural land in Morocco, and winter rainfall, averaging about 500 mm per
year, is adequate for winter crops and does not vary greatly from year to
year. These factors have favoured the development of large-scale extensive
rainfed agriculture, and ownership of much of the land in the area passed
into foreign hands during the Protectorate period.
28.       The advent of foreign settlers precipitated major changes in the
traditional tribal structure of land use. The takeover by foreigners of
land used or controlled by tribal groups as part of a largely collective
pattern of migratory land use led to the introduction of settled cultiva-
tion by the local population, and a breakdown of traditional tribal rela-
tionships. As a result a dualistic agricultural structure has emerged:
large-scale farms, usually on better soils and using modern agricultural
practices, many of which were developed by foreigners but which have now
passed into private Moroccan or Moroccan Government hands; and smallhold-
ings and tribal land, cultivated using traditional methods by farmers who,



together with landless agricultural laborers, are amongst the poorest members
of the local population. The main potential for increasing agricultural
production in the region lies in extending modern agricultural practices to
those areas now cultivated using traditional methods.
29.       The potential for the development of the Meknes area was examined
as part of the studies of the Sebou river basin undertaken jointly by the
Moroccan Government and UNDP/FAO in 1963-68. The proposed project was sub-
sequently identified and prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme in
1972-3, and was appraised in June 1974. At negotiations in Washington in
April 1975, the Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. H. Belkora of the Prime
Minister's Office.
Project Purpose and Description
30.       The project area is located southeast of Meknes and extends over
about 170,000 ha comprising the districts of Dir, Sebaa Aioun, Ain Taoujdat
and Tizguit. It is divided into two distinct topographical zones: an agri-
culturally rich undulating plain to the northwest, and a poorer mountainous
area ("causse") to the southeast, where the potential for increased agri-
cultural production is limited (See Map). The objectives of the project
are to increase agricultural production, particularly on land presently culti-
vated by traditional methods, and to improve income distribution. Increases
in production would be achieved through: (i) the creation of viable, well
organized holdings and measures to limit future fragmentation, (ii) the
strengthening of extension services and introduction of cooperative management
to ensure that agricultural practices and inputs already developed are applied,
and (iii) the provision of agricultural infrastructure. Better income distri-
bution would be achieved by (i) distribution of land to the poorest members
of the population, and (ii) higher incomes to poor farmers resulting from
improved agricultural practices.
31.       The project consists of:
(a)  aerial photography of about 200,000 ha to a scale of 1:12,500;
(b)  soil, topographic, cadastral, and socio-economic surveys on
about 135,000 ha and preparation of maps to a scale of 1:5,000
followed by preparation of plans for and implementation of a
land reform program;
(c)  destoning of about 5,000 ha of cultivable land;
(d)  construction of about 160 km of earth access roads;
(e)  construction of wells to provide potable water for new coop-
eratives and installation of pumps, storage tanks and distribu-
tion systems to stand pipes;



- 10 -
(f) construction of stores for centers serving groups of four co-
operatives where adequate storage buildings do not already
exist;
(g)  rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and drainage system
extending on about 3,500 ha in the Betit area and extension
of the system to serve an additional 500 ha approximately;
(h)  construction of small irrigation systems to serve about 600 ha
on newly established cooperatives to utilize surplus water
available from wells constructed for potable water supply;
(i)  construction of offices needed for project administration, and
staff housing for agricultural extension agents;
(j)  purchase of equipment and vehicles for project administration
and agricultural services;
(k)  provision of adequate personnel to staff the project adminis-
tration and the agricultural services and their in-service
training; and
(1)  provision of consultants to assist in the surveys and prepara-
tion of plans for land reform, for a study of the constraints
limiting development of collective lands throughout Morocco,
and for such other needs as may arise.
Land Tenure
32.       The present land tenure situation in the project area is estimated
to be as follows:
ha
2995 individual owners of private freehold holdings       47,870
775 owners of private freehold on cooperatives             9,340
4205 holders of rights to tribal land                     37,300
Agricultural land held in trust for charitable use         2,650
Expropriated land held by the state                       27,600
State land used by tribal groups for grazing               7,000
Other state land, mainly non-agricultural
(including forests, military areas, public
highways, etc.)                                         38,200
Total                 169,970



- 11 -
33.       About 19,000 ha of former foreign owned land in the project area,
now held by the state, would be distributed to rightholders to tribal land,
smallholders of freehold and landless laborers in accordance with the Agrarian
Reform Legislation of 1972 (see paragraph 24). In addition, land ceded to
the State by smallholders of freehold who benefit from land distribution,
estimated to amount to 2,350 ha, would be redistributed. Land would be dis-
tributed in holdings of a size estimated to be sufficient to generate a first
year potential income of DH 6,000 (Section 3.05, draft Credit Agreement) and
beneficiaries would be obliged to join Government-sponsored co-operatives.
Fragmentation of land distributed under the Agrarian Reform Legislation will
not be permitted. All remaining freehold land in the project area will be
consolidated and future fragmentation would be subject to Government approval.
Tribal land which is presently scattered throughout the Project Area will be
consolidated into a few zones. Right holders to tribal land who benefit from
land distribution will cede such rights and their former holdings on tribal
land will be shared amongst the remaining right holders. In order to minimize
movements of families resulting from these land tenure changes, land consolida-
tion and distribution would take place in a combined operation. The Project
Area would be declared an area of consolidation in accordance with the 1962
Consolidation Law. Land Consolidation and Land Reform Commissions would be
established to supervise consolidation and distribution operations and
arbitrate in any disputes.
34.       The cultivated holdings of tribal rightholders who remain on the
tribal land would be enlarged, as a result of the cession of rights by right-
holders who benefit from the land distribution described above. In addition,
the productivity of these lands will be improved as a result of the destoning
for more intensive cultivation of about 5,000 ha and provision of cooperative
and agricultural infrastructure, which are included in the project. Under
existing legislation, these enlarged holdings would be ascribed to each right-
holder under a title giving him perpetual right of use to the holding, subject
only to its efficient agricultural management. Under the same legislation,
subdivision of these holdings would only be permitted on the death of a
rightholder, and provided the holdings created by subdivision are large enough
to provide the target income (see paragraph 33) adopted for land distribution.
Tribal land not suitable for cultivation, amounting to about 18,000 ha, and
located mainly on the "caussett, will remain as communal grazing land. Right-
holders will be grouped, on a voluntary basis, into cooperatives similar to
those to be established under the land distribution program. Success of the
project on the tribal lands will depend on the extent to which those lands
are decongested as a result of the land distribution program, and on the ex-
tent that the remaining rightholders to tribal land can be grouped into co-
operatives.
35.       The cooperatives will be the main channel for providing extension
services, credit and other inputs, and for ensuring the use of modern agri-
cultural practices. Beneficiaries of land distribution who receive rainfed
or irrigated land, other then orchards, and remaining tribal rightholders who
wish to participate on a voluntary basis would become members of service
cooperatives and would own or have use-rights to individual plots. About



- 12 -
4,300 ha of the former foreign land now held by the state is under orchards
which, because of the need for effective management and control, are not
suitable for distribution to beneficiaries as individual holdings. The
orchards would be distributed as large viable holdings, each of which would
be owned and operated jointly by groups of beneficiaries. Beneficiaries who
receive a share of an orchard would become members of production or "mixed"
(i.e. part production, part service) cooperatives, depending on whether or
not they also receive an individual rainfed arable plot.
36.       The proposed project tackles, for the first time in Morocco, the
problems of developing tribal land under rainfed conditions. The experience
gained under the project will assist the Government in formulating policies and
projects for the development of tribal lands in other parts of the country.
To this end, the project also includes a study of tribal lands throughout
Morocco, whose primary purpose would be to inventory the characteristics and
identify the development potential of these lands. The study would be carried
out under the general direction of the Ministry of Interior in coordination
with other Government agencies involved.
Project Execution
37.       Organization and Agricultural Extension.   Implementation of the
project would primarily be the responsibility of the Meknes Provincial Serv-
ices (SP) of the Ministry of Agriculture. In order to ensure that the SP is
able to execute the project effectively, as well as carry out its present
responsibilities in other parts of the Province, its organization and staffing
would be strengthened. A Deputy Chief of the SP has been appointed with re-
sponsibility, under the general direction of the Chief of Provincial Services,
for the project (Section 3.03(a), draft Credit Agreement).
38.       To provide extension services, SP's Agricultural Production Office
would be reorganized into Agricultural Extension and Cooperative services and
staffed accordingly (Section 3.04, draft Credit Agreement). The Agriculture
Extension Service would become fully responsible for extension services to
farmers not participating in Government-sponsored cooperatives. It would
operate in the Project Area through four district extension offices, consisting
of the existing Development Center (CT) at El Hajeb serving Dir, the sub-CT's
serving Ain Taoujdat and Sebaa Aioun, and a new office to serve Tizguit. The
Cooperative Service would supervise the activities of about forty group centres
in the Project Area, each responsible for about four cooperatives. The group
centre would be the unit with primary responsibility for providing extension
advice to farmers who are members of cooperatives, and would also be responsible
for supervising the activities of the cooperatives, endorsing credit applica-
tions by farmers and ensuring that recommended cropping patterns and practices
are followed. Each centre would be staffed by an Agricultural Assistant and
an Agricultural Agent, together responsible for extension work, and by a
clerk, who would be responsible for the supply and bookkeeping activities of
the centre, working closely with SP's Administration Office (Section 4.02(b),
draft Credit Agreement). The Agricultural Extension and Cooperative Services



would both be served by a group of subject specialists who would provide
specialized extension advice and training, as needed, through the district
extension offices and the cooperative group centres.
39.       Execution of land consolidation and distribution under the project
would be the responsibility of the Land Reform Section of SP's Equipment Office.
Through the Office of the Provincial Governor, the Ministry of the Interior,
which acts as trustee for tribal lands, would be responsible for executing the
tenure changes on tribal land described in paragraph 34. The SP and the
Office of the Provincial Governor would co-ordinate closely in these opera-
tions. The Studies and Construction Sections of the Equipment Office would
be responsible for the design and supervision of construction of the coopera-
tive and agricultural infrastructure components of the project. In planning
and developing the new wells for irrigation and potable water supply, these
Sections will be assisted by the Water Resources Division (DRE) in the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications. DRE would restrict future
development of groundwater resources in the Project Area in a manner to
protect existing groundwater supplies, as well as those to be provided under
the project (Section 4.04, draft Credit Agreement).
40.       Training.   Personnel recruited as Agricultural Assistants and Agri-
cultural Agents, both to manage newly formed cooperatives and to provide an
agricultural extension service for farmers other than those in cooperatives,
would have received formal training but generally would have had only limited
practical experience. In-service training programs would be required under
the project to provide instruction in the specific cropping practices applic-
able to the area and, where relevant, in the role of Agricultural Assistants
as managers of cooperatives. Similarly, newly appointed clerks for the co-
operative group centres would require in-service training in their duties and
particularly in the bookkeeping activities which they would undertake. The
SP would therefore prepare training programmes for extension service staff
by March 31, 1976, and start implementation of these programmes by December
31, 1976. (Section 4.02(a), draft Credit Agreement).
41.       Credit.   It has been agreed that project requirements for creclit in
the project area would be met by the .National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA)
in the case of co-operative members, and by CNCA's Local Agricultural Credit
Bank, in the case of individual small farmers. Resources of these institu-
tions are sufficient to meet project needs. Provision of credit would be
conditional on farmers accepting extension advice concerning agricultural
practices (Section 4.06, draft Credit Agreement).
42.       Consultants.   Incomes achieved by beneficiaries of earlier distri-
butions of land under the Agrarian Reform Legislation have varied rather
widely, due to large differences in the productive potential of the plots
received. To ensure that all beneficiaries of land distribution receive plots
which will enable them to achieve substantial increases in income, the proj-
ect would provide for a consultant who would draw up proposals for an improved
system of land capability classification. Consultants services would also be
provided for execution of the study of tribal lands (paragraph 36) and for
other short-term requirements which may arise (Section 3.02, draft Credit
Agreement).



- 14 -
43.       Project Accounts.   Apart from the nationwide study of tribal lands,
for which separate accounts will be maintained in the Ministry of Interior,
the Ministry of Agriculture would create a separate accounting system for the
project within the Meknes SP. The new system will include provision to
separately record the amounts collected from individual cooperative members
in payment for their land. The accounts would also show the amounts of
charges collected as repayment of capital costs and for operation and mainte-
nance of the Betit Irrigation Scheme (Section 4.01, draft Credit Agreement).
44.       Monitoring.   In order to identify possible problems at an early
stage, progress in execution, particularly of the land reform component, will
be closely monitored by the SP. Incomes of beneficiaries of land distribution
and enlargement of tribal land holdings will be surveyed by the SP (Section
3.05(b), draft Credit Agreement). The monitoring system will be based on pre-
paration of quarterly progress reports, which would identify problems and
propose measures to overcome them, and which would be submitted to the Asso-
ciation.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
45.       Cost estimates are shown in Annex III and are summarized below (in-
cluding $6 million of import duties and local taxes); references are to the
items listed in paragraph 31:
Millions of US$
Local   Foreign      Total
Land Reform (a,b)                          2.4      3.0        5.4
Cooperative and Agricultural
Infrastructure (c-j)                    4.6       3.9        S.5
Administration and Consultants (k,l)      3.1       1.2        4.3
Contingencies                              8.3      5.9       14.2
Total                          18.4      14.0       32.4
46.       The Association will finance the full foreign exchange cost of the
project, amounting to $14 million or 53 percent of total project cost net of
duties and local taxes of $6 million. The local costs of the project will
be fully financed by the Government.
Cost Recovery
47.       Farmers who receive land under the land distribution programme in-
cluded in the project would pay the fair market price of such land (Section
4.05(a), draft Credit Agreement). This price woul(d reflect the cost of land
improvements (construction of cooperative access roads, and construction of
small irrigation schemes covering 600 ha) provided for this land under the
project. Farmers who receive annually cropped land under the project would



- 15 -
pay for it in terms of a fixed amount of wheat, over 20 years, with reduced
payments in the first three years, at 4 percent interest. For plantations,
a shorter repayment schedule would be considered by Government if necessary.
48.       There would be no direct recovery of (i) the cost of executing land
tenure changes, including consolidation, (ii) the capital cost of co-operative
and agricultural infrastructure other than improvements to land to be dis-
tributed under the land distribution programme or (iii) the capital costs
relating to project administration. The operating costs relating to the
extension services would be borne by the Government, while the cooperatives
would bear the cost of the operation and maintenance of services provided in
common to cooperative members (potable water supply, cooperative stores, access
roads and the small irrigation schemes covering 600 ha). For the irrigation
network in the Betit area, charges would be levied to cover full operating
and maintenance costs and the beneficiaries of the extension to the network
would repay a reasonable share of capital costs (Section 4.05(b), draft Credit
Agreement).
Procurement
49.       Air photography; contract services for the surveys, mapping, prepa-
ration of plans, and implementation of the land reform program; the rehabili-
tation and extension of the Betit irrigation system; and equipment and vehicles
would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement". Other construction works under
the project comprising access roads, wells, potable water supply systems,
small irrigation distribution systems, and storage buildings for new coopera-
tives, as well as administrative offices and other buildings and the deston-
ing of about 5,000 ha would be too scattered and on too small a scale to
attract foreign competition. Contracts would therefore be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding. Adequate local civil works contracting
organizations exist in Morocco with the experience and equipment necessary
to undertake the work. Prior to issuing invitations to tender, the Associa-
tion would approve draft documents and specifications and the evaluation of
bids and recommendations for award of contracts would be sent to the Associa-
tion for approval before contract award.
Disbursements
50.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance the foreign ex-
change cost of the project and would be disbursed over a period of five years,
1976-80, as follows:
-    47 percent of the cost of civil works
-    100 percent of the cif cost of equipment and vehicles, or
70 percent of their ex-factory cost if purchased locally, and
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of total
expenditures for consultants.



- 16 -
Benefits and Justification
51.       The main economic benefit from the project would be the increase
in agricultural production arising from increases in yields and cropping
intensity. Wheat production would increase by 20,000 tons a year and vegetable
production by 44,200 tons a year by full development in 1985. By that time,
the value of net incremental production as a result of the project would
amount to $6.8 million, and net annual foreign exchange savings would amount
to $2.3 million. The economic rate of return, calculated including the
recurrent cost of extension services over the project life, is estimated
at 24 percent, and remains very attractive for a range of adverse assumptions.
52.       The main beneficiaries of the project would be about 8,500 families
of smallholders, landless labourers and rightholders to tribal land who
participate in the land distribution programme or have their holdings en-
larged. Other small and medium farmers would benefit from the improved
extension service, and from land consolidation. Eighty-five percent of the
main beneficiaries at present receive per capita incomes of less than one
third the national average. Increases in farm incomes would vary widely de-
pending on the beneficiaries' level of income without the project and on the
degree of their participation in the land reform program. Members of land
reform cooperatives would see their incomes increase from 160 to 1,200%,
whereas rightholders to tribal land who would only benefit from decongestion
would see their incomes increase from 70 to 340%.   The project would prevent
future fragmentation of existing viable holdings.   It will also provide the
Government with valuable experience, for the first time on rainfed lands,
in the improvement of productivity of tribal lands and the development of an
intensive extension service.  The project presents no significant ecological
or health risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Kin-dom of wIorocco and the
Association, the Report of the Committee provided for ir Article V, Section
1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approv-
ing the proposed Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
54.       Features of the Agreement of special interest are described in
paragrapths 33, 37-44, 47 and 48 of this report.
55.       Declaration of the Project Area as a Consolidation Zone and estab-
lishment of the Consolidation and Land Reform Commissions (paragraph 33)
would be additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit.
56.       I am satis'ied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 1 7 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. NIcNaTnara
President
Attachments






ANEX1
Page I of 3 PaPes
CU%2I7Y DATA-SONOCC
bi                    is.eanuDoc (eid-1972)                       ~~~260      Per btof arable land
SOCIAL IDqDCATORS
Rfece outisa
Mo...cco                 PhlIlno   rine  Trkey    Frances*
YOV  i=               am~~~27       1970         1970.
GP fnR CAPITA U3$ (ATLS RASIS) /1                                 200 lb         270 /            220 /c        370 /c      3,620 Ic
DEMIGRAP8IC
T-UM 65th  rate (per thousand)                                 .7 /d           50 4'            45  d         38          16.4A/
Crude death rat. (p-r thmousad)                                 19 7: £         17   7 /912 Ld                 13 ,{j      10.7  I
IWant -ot.1ity r.te (per th...aaod li.. births)                119             150d7~            901              I        12:'  T
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                50              50d~             58             5          72.3
G-ne reprduc,tion rae3.L4                                                      3.1 /4,~         3.326                       1.3
Pop.lation grnrt  rate                                         2.7             2.7   h 3/6h                    .   h         .0
rates                       Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~ks 
Plopulation gro,th rate - urban53L                                                                            4     k       2.
Ag. atruot-r (percen)
0-14                                                         4               L7 Ic                       11.8          23.I
15-6L                                                         52              507 77           54         53.9          627
65 and ovr                                                                     17               377        1.3          11.5
Age dependency ratio /L                                        0.9             1.0 41           0.9Mj         0.8          0.6 /
iconoe,io dependency ratio /1                                  2.0             2.21             0 .5           . 0         7 9
lJrban poplation us percent of total                            29 /4           37               32 /k       38 I /ak        70 1-.
Footly plo..oing,  N. of ....eptnro  -I.clti,e (thou....                        67              409           481 
Wo. of ceero (% of earied een                 .3                                8           8.2 
TotaT lab.r force (thuveads)                                 3,3u0           4,000 1         13,200l 14    1b, 500       210,53  1
Percen.tage, .eployed 1  agriculture                          56              50 145614-                      7          12 .8I1
Pernen.tage unexployod                                          9              97i              7/i           4           2.1~
ICOME OCISTRIBUTION
anooc.e rece.ived by higheot 5%                    ...                               25 /,         32      s~
Percent of natincul inocee received by highoest 20%             .               .540
Per-net nof naticol incme received by loWost 20%                .               .i 1                            3 /n,
%,rcet cf nuticcul. inoome received by 1oweet 40%               .               .12                            100  ;;
MISTRIBUTION OF LAND OiN4ERIP
% .end by top I00% of owner                                      ....                                         5.3
%  -.~d by -.llst 10% of coeo..                                                                  .0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Populatio  per phiotitn                                       9,700 /0      13,270            9,10o /t      2,220           71;C
Populatico per oursing person                                7,350 7.eu      2,760 ~0'        5,3907        1,8800u         3'0
Population per hoopita1 bed                                    620   oa        690 1            850 14         90           110 /c
Pe aopit: clorli~e euply am % of reqireesto a57                   e           9                85           110           12
Per c    pit  prti  eupply, total (graoe per dayL6               .3 0j6.                          578                       10)1
Of   hch   nimal and pule                                                     IL 1/c           22/           22/            .6
Death rate I-4 yeor- I?.7.                                                                        77-          15 Ty        0.8
i  djuated AS pri.ary school enrolisent ratio                     51              55              112 ~  _,  b 111           1 .
Adjusetd e2     ouayscolerlletrto5                                              12                45 /s        2 
Te ar of ilboling provided, first end second level               12             12               10            11            :.b
Voca-tional enrolleent ae % of aec. school enrolleent            30              3               10b/          ILc  1        23/.
Adult literacy rate %                                            17 /&o.ad      24 /i.ac..d     72     ~      55 /an         9
Average No. of pereono -Per rena (urban)                        2.0 /d         2.1 /i            .            1.9           0.9 /0.00
Percent of cocPied colt. withou t piped eater                    Li ~           35 ?a.ig         66   p,       61 L9Zo
Acne,, te electricity ~~~~(en %  f to tal PpoLatioc)       77   h          68 /i&f.         231 77        . 8b          29 771
Pe.rcent of tural Ppulation connected to electricity            32 7jah                           6      ~     18/.          9
I--per 1080 popoLation                             16              95 /c45                       327 /c         ,,
Paseenger care Per l00 pepolatton                                12             16   1            8 Ici
Electric pewer coneumaption (kwh p.c.)                           87             1139  c         2557:         3011 Zc     3,013 7:c
Newsprint consnopti.n p.c. kg per year                         0.2             0.3      ~       1.7 77:.a     2.21         11 l.2T7
Noteos  Figure. refer either to tie latest period. or to             a   ut of .nvironeen,     teprtr,body         eg,an
the      Latestyao.tOat periodie refer in Principle to             itioicb.g           and ea   f ntional popui.lat-e
theyer    1956-60 or 1966-70; tie iatest years In prL.n          /6  Protein standards (r,.qireete( for all co-triooaOata.
nil  n  90an     90                                                liahed by tUSDk   conu   Renearh ob  icri   provide for a n1inior
A4The Per Capita ONP estimate ia at nekot p,i-o for                  allowance of 60 gran   of total protin per day, and 20 green of
Y-n   othcr then 1960,c.alclet.d by the caeeneso ninal and pul.e protein, of hich 10 gr-s                      should he animal
tech.lque .o the 1972 Worid hank Atlce.                          protein.   Thweo etandard.s are -ooct lowe     than those of 75
/2 Average eubhr of daughtero per wonn      of reproductive          gr-    of total protein and 23 gram  of animal proeic ce an
age.                                                             average for the world, prop.oed cy PAO iv the Third World Fend
,a  Fbpulation groach rtec ore for the decodec endiog iv n       ~        Y
1960 and 1970.                                               17 Sote stu~dies have -oggeoted tnat crude death rates of children
A   R atio of population under 15 and 65 and over to pepulJ.-         ages I through 4 may be .eed asafirct appr-l..inalo      indexo of
tin  of age. 15-64 for age dependenoy ratio and to labor         eal-tritio..
force of age 15-64 far ecoonoeio dependency ratio.            '8  Pereectage enrolld of oevcd           population of sohool age
FAO1 reference etander4e repreest pkqaiologhcL.l      -   ~         as defined for each  nc..
Nuiretset for onocal activity end health, taking
/a   Eatteate;    /4  Cosopund by applying to the 1970 figure the growth rate of the GNP/capita in resi te-s, free 1960 to
1970;   oc 1972;     /d  UN estimate;    1   19-62;  If   Eatbeate based on ,es.pl. sury;      a41965-70;      1h_ 19-60-72;
A4   1971;    a   f17 urban centers;    A4  For~ the definition of urban, see UN .DeoUgraphic Yea-rbook 191, page 156;      11  Ove
2,000 population;    Zm  1965;    L4  1973;   /o  19,69;   /p  Urban cantem as per enwunr,ati.n     jl     1968;  14  Households;
DiCsposable ivncome;    1t   Personnel in gvermmant services only;      /u  Including eidwloes and assietmnt our.ee,
Derived free sample eurvsy eettiatea (240,000 perons), excluding 17 eaatern proin..eo;         /-  Gnrol. oc.t only;
Includes rural hospitals;    IL. 1965-67;    Lz  1964-66;    /-   Includes overage students;     lab  1967;    /cc  Read ace
write;   /a    Orer five years old;    /ae  Insaide;  /p7f  Urban only;     aA  Percent of hooseholde;    Li~   Percent of
dwellings with(electricity;    /ai   Iport. onlY;    /&i Inside or outside;      /.k  Adminiotrative centere of p-vice-
and distrIcts (Vilyet' and 'Eace' centers.);      /.l   196L-June 1974 (86 Percent being I3080);    /-   15 yeas end over;
Perena six yere old and over who tell the canosu takers tha,t they ca.n read and write;         /ao  Including om-ecnn
duelliege;    Lap  Including vacant duelling,.
SFrance is selected since it is a representative of the countrie5 of the EEC, to whIch the Morocco ocons.W cill probably
be increaningly linked.
ho Apr10 23, 1975



AONNR I
Paoe 2 of 3 noges
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC DIREWPINT DATA SIDlED
(Aesoonto in Millione a   US Dcllore)
Actual                                 Prgojeted                     1965-        1970-         1974-
A11           3m                 im                  m4           In            1970         nIt          niL           JA            im           niU
3&1fL2  LMA0   =L32-Doo                                          Avrc      t19-       9 Pricetad Eno  jchono    ae                         AverAon Annuol Growth R.to      - As Percent of CITY
Grost Domestic Product                             2561         3248          3535         3691         3877         5436           4,9          5.0          7.0          101.5        100.1        102.4
laosfanTrn. of Trod. Wi                     ....9          -34l          AZ7         __u           __u         :lai                         .             .          _.zL          -.z.       _.A_
Grose D one tic Inc omo                         2523         3214         3518          3736         3919         5307          5.0           5.4          6.3         100.0         100.0        100.0
Iaporsd (-laolding 971)                             504          772          832           896         973          1673          8.9           6.6         11.4           20.0         24.0         31.5
Ennorts   i-lsldisa NFS)(Ipoert Copccity)           518          671           767          B89          986         1351           5.3          9.8          6.6           20.5         20.9          25.5
R-ocr- Gop                                       -14          101           63            -2          -13          318            ...-0.5                                              3.1          6.0
Consuption Espenditcro                             2218         2000         2993          3181         3345         4500           4.8          4.6          6.0           97.9         07.1         84.0
lo--t-tx Expenditure       (tlsoldixg Stoks)        291          151          380           533          562         1125         12.1           0.4         14.9           11.3         16.0         21.2
Domesic Savings                                     305          414           522          328          607          807           6.2         11.3           5.9          12.1         12.9          13.2
Notionl Savings                                     239          432           370          630          661          832          10.8         12.2          5.2           10.3         13.4          16.0
MERC9ANDI0E TRADt AND    FSF                           dAssal Data or Cur-en     Price-  n   xlos       ae                                                  As Person   of Total
Phos:pho,to. fb113                                            0713         144           203          722          780          9.0         41.0           1.6          21.2          16.2         23.6
Ocher Goods,  fob                   ~~~~         ~~~~~323  373  490          699         8030         1612          3.0         19.7          14.8          60.5          33.7         48.7
Non   --moo  O-ico                                98          210          296           369         4,29          913         16.5          10.6         16.4-          18.3        3-0-.1        2277
Totol Espolrts                               534           698          930         1271         1960          3305          3.5         23.8          11.0         100.0         100.0        100.0
Petrolonn, elf                       ~~~          ~~~          ~~~~23  37  55  75        269          644           9.9         32.0         19.1            4.5          4.3          15.8
Ether Goods, elf                 406          ~~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~649  712  1030  12 33  22             9.9         16.6          18.0          80.2         3.            69.4
lon-facror Services                  ~~~         ~~~~~77  _168  897         245          291           6Di2        16.9         14.9          15.6         _15.3          19.7         14.8
Tosol loports                                 506          854.         964         13.58         1793         4075         11.0          19.0         17.9         100.0         IEE.O0       TOlE.0
PieInldices                                                        Aveee1676            0
Export Frie-   loden                             102           98           128          133          100          303          -0.9         13.2          1.3
ImportPrice Index                                118          103          118           1327         153          704         -2.0           9.5          5.9
Tor-s of Tt-de codas                              86           95           109          103          123          300           2.0          3.3         -4.2 
Export   colu-   Index                            90          116           833          139          131          273           5.2          7.0          9.4
VALEE, ADDED RY SECTOR                                       Annea   Dor. ai 1967-63 Price    nod E-eho-s   tote                            Actn    Annca1 Gr-eh Ruies-      As P    -tto f  T-ia
Agri-elt-r                                       755          891           980          921          994         1181           3.3          2.9           3.5          29.2         27.4          21.8
Teld ltry                                        630          097          903           942         1013         1611           3.1          6.5          9.7           24.           4.9         35.7
Service                                         1204         1547          1688         9755         1079         3633           5.1          5.4           7.0          46.5         47.7          40.6
Tofu!                                        2589         3245         3371          3618         3884         3426          4.6           5.0          6.9          1210.0       191.3        120O.
CESTOAL GOV'ERNMIENT FINANCE                                       MAcal. Datb us   C-rent Prices                                                            A, Percet ef COP
C-rr-u   Recipts                                 374          £44           731          979         1365         2246          31.6         19.7         11.4           Ili..        19~3          70.1
Curren   Epe-ditscre-                            390          544           684          910         1032         2080           6.9         16.9          15.0          13.0          16.2         17.8
RadBoeRtury    rla                             -16           102           47            69          333          266           .                          .36                        3.1          2.3
Sat Encarao 1 norrowiog             ~~~~~184       69            90           54          100          3300          0. 5        12.          25.3            4.0          21            2.6
lacestment Enoo-dit.r-                           123          226--         253          763          395         1000          12.3         16.4         22.3            4.8           6.7          9.3
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                  Actuol                 Co~t.                                                            S Million Currnt Prize         An1 Peeato      Total
(As, . of Totl1 Currant EpenditCure)               19_63      1978       1937-      1973                                                               1960-72       1973-77         1968-72       1973-277
DETA I  01 EON T.OVFNMENT INVESTMEN-      -ctal         pla--sd         ur,nal-      planne. d
Ed,cati-n                                       24.5       28.3       31.5       27.4                     Social S-cfor                               171           635            10.7           22.7
Other Seclul Services              11.3        9.7        9.7        8.3                     Agri-Itur-                                  462            798           40.0           28.5
Agri-el-r                                        7.7        7.2        7.1        6.5Id.ty                             dMiig11282,
Oth_rE-oosie Servo-                              6.         33         4.         4.35nutyadMnic11281.                                                                                            10.3
Adaiaist-tiin a-d S-crly30.7'                              30.:9      31.2       299                      T    _nrsa                                   307           647           76.7            2.3
Other                               1~~~  ~   ~~~~~      ~~~~~9.3  18.7  016.6  _24.4         Trspf         enolain;1824                                               16.              .
T-I C--, ftp..it.-         100.0      10.0       100.(      100.                       Othor                                      188            765           16.7          _27.3
Total Cerrent Espeadicucen  190.0  100.8  100.0   100.R                        ~~~~~~~~~~                                      ~    ~~~~Total  1129  2800  133.0   IDOl)
SELECTED INEICATORS                                1960-      1965-      19)73-     0973-                     FINANICING E                                              03              77      ~      ,
(Coles-ietd f-n 5-Yaut A-ergad Doto)               1963       1970       1973       1978                     CoeralIovtosig                              353           914            3133o
Average 100O                                     3.1        2.88       3.2        2-.5                    Soven"tir  orov                             588          1132            32.0          41.1
bopori Elastirity                   0~~~   ~  ~~~~~.05  1.98  1.6     1.0I.,                                         -C-il  eavet       -126           -2.79         -11.1          -9W9
Marisol Du--nir Savings Race                    0.07       0.16       0.1        0.12                           Tvto1 Fi--ngs                       1129          2830           100.0         103.0
Marinal Nuiona      Savigs Rate                 -0.02       U.24       0.10       0.10
-            ~~~Total Loba  Force                                  V.I., Adlod vet Worke     11967-69 Prices uad E-chona.Rogoivi)
1.AB00 cORCER AN OUTPUT PER WORKER                  oMilon            . of Total        Oot.ut1.00             Tnl LTS Tolar-                   lerceni of Avar.e.                     Crw     Rte5va
1960     1971     1960     1971           1960-71            1960     1871                   1960            1971                         1960-71
Agric-lt-r                                       .        2.2      .        5.P                                        430                                   570.3
"Indutr                                                   0 .6     .      15.0                ..                      1410                    .165.1
Series.                                                   1.2            _N3.0.O                                      13533                                 158.4
Total                                        3.3      4.0      100.0  100.0              1.0                       8 54                   100.8         000.0
evE applicable
not avilable                                                                                                                                                                           0849A OP IT
Aprl- 10, 1975
NOTE: Tcxv p-jetios-       ar   p-epa-d io Fobra..rp 1974      and do nor -oOlet moereet cegtIn export (phiosphatc)                -nd impalpie       aswlev        aib    Evro      vt
investmet    trotegy, aboat aIleS Ins..ffficient detceil is-selopcvt                      ncnnevsinI               czdldf         rive 1s M-roc     c- April 24, 17



ANNEX I
HOROCCO -   BALANCE CF PAYMBNTS    BIRIINAL ASSISTANCE ANS DEBT PR,01ECTIONS                                                Pae 3 of 3 races
(Axouct. fc millioca of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Acc. Acual    Crotch Rates
Actual                  Betimatad                     prolaccd                           ProJscosd    1974-          1979-
1969     1970     1971    1972       1973       1974     1975    1976     1977     1978     1979      1969           1979            1989
95904RY BALA8C! B? PAYMBENTS
Exports (includipg NP;)                                              667     696      737      930      1271       1960     2044     2226    2539     293      3305     11220         11. 0           13 0
Bacorte liocludioc SF9)                                              799     954      659      964      9395       1793     2036     2368    2882     3342      4074    13220         17.8            12.6
teo-urce Bola.ce (X-M)                                           -42     -156     -121      -34       YT         Ti! 
Interact   et                                                       -63      -52      -56      -71       -79        -64      -50      -49      -52     -65      -82      -873          5.1            26. 5
Dlreco Icorstwecc Incosec                                           -23      -25      -25      -28        -36       -37      -38      -40      -43      -47     -52      -131           7.1           10.0
Wurckr.. fr   ttaocca                                                 60       63      9S      137        160        168     176      185      196      205      216       351          501            5.0
Current Trcanfcrslcrt)                                                29          26   30       24         29         31      33       33       33          33     33      33          0.0             0.0
t  re A-cocuct                             -39       144      77       28         12       265      129      -32     -209    -333     -654     -2724            .;
Priate   Dtrct uInv   st                                               4       19      20       20         14         19       17      19       24       30       35       142         13.0           14.9
Official Capit, l . rocto                                             27       20       18      17         14         12       12      12       12       12       12       25          0.0             7.6
Public M64LT Locus
-Dib-urorm  _te                                                    67     129      141      121       101        192      237      268     298      315      453      4566        I.0             25.5
-BRoaregoto                                                       -36      35       49       49       -67         74      -82      -90       99    -114     -135     -1689         12.8            29.0
Eat Dib-ura-uota                                                36      94       92       72        34        118      155      17N     198      201      323      2877         22.3           24.5
Other MALT Lo-ac
-DBlbur-ee to                                                      -       -        -        -         -          10       21       22       23       24      25        82         20.1            12.6
-ce2avmercto                                                      _        _        _       _          _          _        _        -3       -6      -9      -17       -66           _             16 b
Nut Uiahoroea,rotu                                             -        -        -        -         -          10       21       19       17      15       13ti   't216          5.4            2.1
Capitol T-a a.ctcoce ote.                                             -1       47       18     -63                   40       19       l2        2       -1        5       80
Cheoge it Net Rcr-r-o    i---lcrrooc)                                -21      -36     -71      -74      -19        -364    -315     -184      -40       76     266      -416
GRANI AND LOAN COl0lIT5I0N0S
Offictal  Iracco oud iroot-like Loanc                                 27       20      16       17         14
Public MALT L..o.
IBRD                                                               53      25       35       87        49
1I4A7                                                                      -         9       10        -
Other tultlatrl                                                    -         3      -        -
Coteroasecte                                                       31      87       74       53        49
Iuppllerc                                                           3       12       2
Fioaoo.al Ioctitotio-e                                              3       25      32        1
_B.ndg                                                               I
Torsl Public M6LT Lo.ts                                         98     153      151      151        98
Actual Dobt Ot.ttndicg o      D0ceaber 31  1973
AEXUAL ANO PcOJRCTRc RBTRRNAL 000T                                   Dicb-rsed OuII    Pcrccur
lcRD                                                                      105        10.8
SeA                                                                        03         2 3
Other Multllutrcol                                                          3         0.3
Covercocentt                                                              657        67.5
Supplicro                                                                  69         7.1
Fin..clol I  ct-tittlot-                                                   57         5.8
bo'd                                                                       30         3.1
Public Deblt  - r1.                                                        29         3.0
Total Publict MLT Debt                                                 977       100.0
o-t Ipplicabl,                                                                                                                                                                EKENA CF IT C
t I          pligohle                                                                                                                                                          Aril I1, 1975
011T0:  These proJections acre prrpor"  d It Febr-acy 1974 cod du not reflect rcor recnth                  to coport (phuaphate) uod import pri -o1uerl so It the C.      oer
inve         tI_ft strcre6A, about ohiob i- cufflclIt detail ic avuOlohic ot crecot.   Ac Ococumlo mlaaloo Is scheduled to arrir So Mrortcc       0  April 24, 1973,



iNNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATION6 IN MOROCCO
A. oTATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1975)
Loan or
Credit                                                amount (less cancellations)
Number Year      Borrower           Purpose           Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
6even loans fully disbursed                          114.1
Two credits filly disbursed                                   17.3
79   1965   Kingdom of Morocco    Education                 11.0       1.3
642   1969   Kingdom of Morocco    Highways           7.3               1.9
643   1969   Kingdom of Morocco    Irrigation        46.o              20.7
704   1970   CIH                   DFC (Tourism)      8.8               0.5
266   1971   Kingdom of Morocco    Education                  8.5       8.4
848   1972   CIH                   DFC (Tourism)     15.0              10.5
850   1972   ONEP                  Water Supply      48.0              24.9
861   1972   CNCA                  Agriculture       24.0              16 5
890   1973   BNDE                  DFC               24.0               3.0
936   1973   ONE                   Power             25.0               8.2
955   1974   Kingdom of Morocco    Highways          29.0              28.1
1017   1974   Maroc Phosphore       Industry          50.0              31.3
1018   1974   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture       3200              23.3
1o6i   1974   BNDE                  DFC               30-0              30.0
Total                                  153.2    36.8     208.7
of which has been repaid               56.5
Total now outstanding                  396.7    36.8
Amount sold                1.3
of which has been repaid  1.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA*        396.7    36.8
Total undisbursed                      199.0     9.7     208.7
Prior to exchange adjustment
B. oTATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT6 (as of April 30, 1975)
Amount in US $ Million
Year   Obligor           Type of Business             Loan   Equity    Total
1962     BNDE            Development Bank              ---     1.5      1.5
1966     CIL             Canning Factory               0.9     0.5     1.4
Total gross commitments                  0.9     2.0      2.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    0.8     0.7      1.5
Total commitments now held by IFC        0.1     1.3      1.4
Total undisbursed                         _       _        _



Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 79 First Education Project: US$11 million Credit of October 11, 1965;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
The project, the construction and equipment of 21 secondary schools,
was initially affected by considerable delays. However, performance has im-
proved significantly since September 1972; construction and equipment of all
schools (except industrial equipment in two schools) has been completed, and
all schools are in use, project management is now satisfactory, construction
accounts have been brought up-to-date, local funds have been released for the
project, and the Association's procurement procedures for international bid-
dinig for furniture and equipment have been followed. In 1968, as a result of
educational reforms, construction of three agricultural schools was discon-
tinued with IDA's approval. The Closing Date has been extended five times
from the original date of September 30, 1974, to allow for completion of pro-
curement of the industrial equipment.
Ln. No. 642 and Cr. No. 167 First Highway Project: US$14.6 million of
!rovember 13, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
The project suffered from initial delays; however, it was completed
early in 1974 and within the estimated cost. By March 1975, $1.9 million
was still undisbursed out of the combined credit/loan, mainly because of cum-
bersome Government disbursement procedures. Ways of expediting payments were
discussed by the last supervision mission in September 1974. The original
closing date has been extended three times, from the original date of
February 28, 1974.
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Closing Date: November 30, 1978.
Progress in implementing the project is now satisfactory although
considerable problems were first experienced with management and procurement,
and some procurement difficulties continue. The major project structure,
Idriss ler Dam, is completed and equipment of 13,200 ha out of a total of
35,000 ha is completed. Additional infrastructure for the project area, in-
cluding a sugar cane processing factory and flood protection works, are being
provided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
LLn. No. 704  First Hotel Development Project; US$10.0 million of August 12,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
Disbursements and commitments were initially lower than originally
expected, as construction of some hotels ran into difficulties in 1971-73.
As a result, the original closing date of December 31, 1973 was extended, and
$1.2 million was cancelled from the loan. With returning confidence and
renewed investment activity, project execution substantially improved in 1974.
The loan is now fully committed, but a further postponement in the closing
date has been necessary to complete disbursements.
Cr. No. 266 Second Education Project: US$8.5 million Credit of August 18,
1971; Closing Date: April 30, 1976.
The project included the expansion and improvement of specific sec-
tions of the secondary, vocational and higher educational systems of the Bor-
rower, and technical assistance for project administration and school main-
tenance. Subsequently the Association agreed not to finance two Vocational
Training Centers and the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Accordingly, an
amount of about US$0.9 million has been transferred to the unallocated cate-
gory for future reallocation and/or cancellation. Limited delays occurred
in the appointment of consultant architects, in the recruitment of local
personnel and technical assistance experts for the Project Unit, and in pro-
curement. However, execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Physical
execution of the project is forecast for completion by the end of 1976, about
one year and a half later than originally planned, and an extension of the
closing date will be necessary.
Ln. No. 848  Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Commitments have initially been lagging behind expectations as in
the case of Loan No. 704 due to sluggish investment activity, but the loan
should be fully committed by June 1975, as against the original estimate of
year-end 1973.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are being completed on schedule except
for the treatment plant which is about six months behind schedule. The fi-
nancial position of the Borrower, Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP), is
satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for a tariff study which will
assist in improving ONEP's long-term financial performance. Consultants will
be engaged shortly to undertake a management study for ONEP.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln. No. 861, Cr. No. 338 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$34.0 million
of October 10, 1972; Closing Date: August 31, 1976.
The project has been progressing satisfactorily and disbursements
had reached US$17.5 million by the end of March 1975, slightly behind the
appraisal forecast.
Ln. No. 890 Sixth BNDE Project; US$24 million of May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The loan was fully committed by May 1974, about six months earlier
than expected, due to rapid improvement of the investment climate since mid-
1973. Disbursements are also running slightly ahead of the appraisal estimate
and should be completed by the end of 1975.
Ln. No. 936  Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Project is progressing satisfactorily, although delays of 2-4
months occurred during erection of the gas-turbines. Transmission works were
scheduled for completion in March 1975 and physical completion of the Project
is expected by the middle of the year.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Bids received for the highway construction works were about twice
the appraisal cost estimate whereas bids for highway improvement works were
about in line with the appraisal estimate. The Government has decided, with
the Bank's concurrence, to reinvite bids for the construction works. The
urban traffic and transport study in the towns of Casablanca and Rabat is now
under way. The Government will shortly invite consultants' proposals for
technical assistance for the establishment of a Transportation Planning Office
in the Ministry of Public Works.
Ln. No. 1017  Phosphoric Acid Project:   US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
This loan was declared effective on February 27, 1975. Progress
in project execution is good, although there is likely to be a delay in
completion of one to three months, due to a delay in the civil works compo-
nent of the turnkey contract. Commercial operations are presently scheduled
to start between October and December 1975.
Ln. No. 1018  Sebou II Development Project:   US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan became effective on February 28, 1975. Commissioning of
the sugar cane processing factory is scheduled for June, 1975, one month



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
later than originally scheduled, but in time to process the 1975 harvest.
Construction of the flood protection dykes and project area roads is on
schedule.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 20, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on January 15, 1975. Commitments
amounting to about half the loan amount are being processed. No disburse-
ments have yet been made.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MOROCCO
Meknes Agricultural Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:                   $14 million
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The purpose of the project is (i) to increase agri-
cultural production through the improvement of tradi-
tional agriculture and (ii) to improve income dis-
tribution through land distribution and improvement
of incomes of poor farmers. The project consists of:
(a) aerial photography of about 200,000 ha to a
scale of 1:12,500;
(b) soil, topographic, cadastral, and socio-economic
surveys on about 135,000 ha and preparation of
maps to a scale of 1:5,000 followed by prepara-
tion of plans for and implementation of a land
reform program;
(c) destoning of about 5,000 ha of cultivable land;
(d) construction of about 160 km of earth access
roads;
(e) construction of wells to provide potable water
for new cooperatives and installation of pumps,
storage tanks and distribution systems to stand
pipes;
(f) construction of stores for centers serving groups
of four cooperatives where adequate storage
buildings do not already exist;
(g) rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and
drainage system extending over about 3,500 ha
in the Betit area and extension of the system
to serve an additional 500 ha approximately;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(h)  construction of small irrigation systems to
serve about 600 ha on newly established coop-
eratives to utilize surplus water available
from wells constructed for potable water supply;
(i)  construction of offices needed for project ad-
ministration, and staff housing for agricultural
extension agents;
(j)  purchase of equipment and vehicles for project
administration and agricultural services;
(k)  provision of adequate personnel to staff the
project administration and the agricultural
services and their in-service training; and
(1)  provision of consultants to assist in the sur-
veys and preparation of plans for land reform,
for a study of the constraints limiting devel-
opment of collective lands throughout Morocco,
and for such other needs as may arise.
Estimated Cost:                                         Millions of US$
Local   Foreign    Total
A. Land Reform               2.4     3.0        5.4
B. Destoning                 0.9     0.8        1.7
C. Cooperative
infrastructure         2.0      1.8        3.8
D. Betit irrigation
scheme                  1.7     1.3        3.0
E. Project administration    3.0     0.8        3.8
F. Consultants               0.1     0.4        0.5
Subtotal               10.1     8.1       18.2
G. Contingency allowances
1. Physical               1.6     1.2        2.8
2. Price                  6.7     4.7       11.4
Total Project Cost     18.4    14.0       32.4
Financing Plan            Government          $12.4 million (net of local taxes
and duties of
$6.0 million)
IDA                  $14.0 million



INM !USIX II
Page 3
Estimated Disbursements:
FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81
--($ million)-
Annual             0.4   1.3   3.1   4.6   3.6   1.3
Cumulative        0.4    1.7   4.8   9.4  13.0  14.0
Procurement Arrangements:
Air photography; contract services for the surveys,
mapping, preparation of plans, and implementation
of the land reform program; the rehabilitation and
extension of the Betit irrigation system; and equip-
ment and vehicles would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's "Guidelines for Procurement".   Other con-
struction works under the project comprising access
roads, wells, potable water supply systems, small
irrigation distribution systems, and storage build-
ings for new cooperatives, as well as administrative
offices and other buildings and the destoning of
about 5,000 ha would be too scattered and on too
small a scale to attract foreign competition. Con-
tracts would therefore be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding. Prior to issuing in-
vitations to tender, the Association would approve
draft documents and specifications and the evalua-
tion of bids and recommendations for award of con-
tracts would be sent to the Association for approval
before contract award.
Technical Assistance:     Consultants services would be secured, in accord-
ance with the Bank's guidelines, for (i) the study
of tribal lands throughout Morocco (18 man months);
(ii) preparation of proposals for an improved sys-
tem of land capability classification (36 man-months);
and (iii) short-term needs which may arise (12 man-
months).
Economic Rate of Return: 24 percent.
Appraisal Report:         No. 682-NDR, dated May 9, 1975






... ...  .. . . .. .   ....  '.
3311iO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 NN:loi  
~~~~~~~~~- -O- '' r 1 3
IMMw APSOMMAM 3WUVO6MV UNDu
D1 8BMM 0






l B
34'00'  *                        o      0005"35                 I     b P _5" `00'                                                                               tMl
~~~OtO~~~~~~~~~ '~~~~~~~'  .-~~~~~~~~~~~7 ~~~~KINGDO                                                           M OF  MORROCO
To Robot                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Meknes Agriculture Development Pi
000         Project area bo.rdory
550                                                                                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Springs
I'-.  MEKNES                                                                         -....----.--- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Streams
-~~~~   x                                                                                             - . -   Irrigation   Distriboltoc   Sysloer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,r g ti .   i tr bu i n   ys e
soo                                                                                                                            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(60Potable water supply p,petises
jl, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Iisrntboundaries
I5'a 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~           '00  F7m:i] Forest~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                                  E',          X\N \N\\ Nan-cultivable land (woithin area s.roeye
~  / Rocky soils locally suitable for inteono.v
Al ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~colt-otian- otter destoning
- 500 Conto.rs, meters
ountain elevations above 1 000 meters
Rauinnes
BE  IN                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cinties or towns
_____Asphalt roads
-------Railways
3345 43PRNG
I
tV5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q'KI0OMFTERS
(/;  Ag rot                                                                              0   I~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  3  4  5  6   7
//                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
C~~~~)  130t1-.-'  9       "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" ~~A r/ANTIC  OCEA IV'
0
0
3~tF'000                N            SPANIS SAHARA 



