Report No. 682-MOR                                            r ILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Meknes Agriculture Development Project
Kingdom of Morocco
May 9, 1975
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
M
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (AS OF FEBRUARY 1975)
Currency Unit                         M Moroccan Dirham (DH)
DH 1.00                               US$0.242
US$1.00                               DH 4.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Unit                      British/US Equivalent
1 millimeter (mm)          =          0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                           3.28 feet
1 kilometer(km)            =          0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)             =          2.47 acres
1 litre (1)                           0.264 gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)         =          35.31 cubic feet
1 litre/second (1/sec)    =           0.35 cusecs
1 kilogram (kg)            =          2.26 pounds
1 retric ton (ton)         =          2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MARA                       -          Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reforu
(Ministere de lAgriculture et de le
Reforme Agraire)
DEVA                                  Directorate of Agrieultural Development of
of MARA (Direction de la Mise en Valeur
Agricole)
SP                         =          Provincial Services Office of MARA
(Services Provinciaux)
CT                         =          District Extension Office of MARA
(Centre de Travaux)
ORMVA                      *          Regional Agrieultural Development Office of
MARA (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole)
SOGETA                                Agrieultural Land Management Corporation
(Societe de Gestion des Terres Agricoles)
S0DEA                      =          Farm Development Corporation
(Societe de Developpement des Exploit-
ations Agricoles)
ONICL                      =          National Cereals and Pulses Office
(Office National des Cereales et des
Legumineuses)
OCE                                   Trade and Export Office
(Office de Commercialisation et d'Export-
ation)
CNCA                                  National Agrieultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
DRE                        5          Water Resources Division of Ministry of
Publie Wbrks (Division des Resources en Eak)
CLC,A                                 Local Agrieultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole)
COMAGRI                    -          Moroccan Agricultural Company
(Compagnie Marocaine d'Agriculture)
ASAP                                  Associated Union of Agricultural Users
(Association Syndicale Agricole Privil-
egiee)
GOVERNMENT 0F TEE xIfMDOK OF MCROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS..i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION                    ..............................
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                             1
A.  Description                          l
B. Previous Agriculture Projects.                                  2
III. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ..3
A.   The Area      ...
A. TheLArato *--------------.--- ................................................-  3
Location...3
Topography                                                3
Population     .3
Communications, Transport and Power                       4
B.  Natural Resources                                              h
Soils ....
Glimate.....
Water Resources                                            5
C. Land Tenure...
D.  Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields.    7
E.  Marketing and Cooperatives .....*..................8
F.   Credit.9
G.  Agricultural Support Services                                   9
IV.   THE PROJECT.10
A.   Objectives                                                    10
B.  Description                                                    il
C.  Status of Englneering                       .1
D.   Cost Estimates.4 
E.   Financing                                                     15
F.   Implementation                                                16
G.  Disbursements                                                  17
H. Environment and Health ...17
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                             18
A. Organization and Management.                                    18
B. Operation and Maintenance .......  19
C. Services and Training ... . ..........19
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. C. Collins, H. van Wersch, D. von Samson,
and Ms. S. Fukuda.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
D.   Credit         * * * * * ** *....................    20
E.   Land Reform ... ..... ....                             * -*-  * * 20
F. Recovery of Costs .                                               22
G. Accounts and Audit...23
H. Monitoring                  ...23
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                            ph.......
A. Production.---                           ---  24
B.  Markets ......-.--.-@-       ?
C.   Prices ..............................                            25
D. Farm Income                          ..2
E.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ......       ...................    28
F. Economic Evaluation    ..29
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS.. . ....... . 29
ANNEXES
1.     Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
2.     Agriculture and Livestock Production
3.     Cooperatives and Credit
4.     Project Works
5.     Terms of Reference for Consultants
6.     Cost Estimates
7.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.     Recovery of Project Costs
9.     Prices and Farm Incomes
10.     Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
FIGURES
World Bank 9652 Construction Schedule
World Bank 9653 Organization Chart
IERD       11201 Map - Meknes Agriculture Development Project



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SUJMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture in Morocco accounts for about 27% of GDP at 1960 prices
and employs about 55% of the labor force. An annual growth of about 6% in
agricultural value added in recent years reflects use of modern technology
and production of higher value crops.
ii.       Government in its Third Development Plan (1973-77) has allocated
investments in rainfed agriculture to treble those in the previous Plan. This
reflects a conscious move towards extending benefits of agriculture develop-
ment more widely among the rural population. Previous plans had concentrated
on construction of large storage works for irrigation water without a com-
parable effort to develop downstream distribution systems so that in return
for the high investment the incremental productivity had been disappointing.
iii.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco in the agricultural sector has
comprised loans of US$17.5 million for the Sidi Slimane Project (Loan 389-MOR)
in 1965, of US$46 million and US$32 million for the Sebou I and Sebou II
projects (Loans 643 and 1018-MOR) respectively in 1969 and 1974, loans of
US$10 million in 1966 and US$24 million and a credit of US$10 million in 1972
for two Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans 733 and 861-MOR and Credit 338-
MOR), and a loan of US$18.5 million in 1975 for the Souss Groundwater Project
(Loan 720-MOR). The earlier projects suffered initial delays but once initial
problems were overcome they and more recent projects have made satisfactory
progress.
iv.       Under the first Sebou Project a program of land consolidation and
redistribution is being undertaken. Provision for such land reform in irriga-
tion schemes is provided for in the Land Consolidation Law of 1962, the
Agrarian Reform Law of 1966, subsequently revised in 1972, and in the Agri-
cultural Investment Code of 1969. Though certain provisions in the existing
legislation apply to rainfed lands, other provisions, particularly affecting
land under collective ownership, do not.
v.        The Meknes Agriculture Development Project extends over 170,000 ha.
Redistribution of about 30,000 ha of land, mainly ex-foreign-owned farms
expropriated by 1963 and 1973 laws, would benefit about 8,500 rural families
who are now landless or farm non-viable holdings, 85% of which presently have
an income of less than one-third of the average national income. Presently
fragmented holdings would be consolidated.  The farmers benefiting directly
under the land redistribution program would be grouped in cooperatives for
which essential infrastructure comprising earth access roads, potable water
supplies and, in some cases, storage facilities would be provided. Member-
ship of cooperatives would be encouraged among remaining rightholders on
tribal collective lands. An existing irrigation network extending over



- ii -
3,500 ha in the project area and served by the Betit spring would be reha-
bilitated and the resultant saving in losses of water would enable about a
further 500 ha to be irrigated through an extension of the system. Small
irrigation systems supplied from wells to be constructed initially for potable
water supply to cooperatives would be constructed serving an estimated 600 ha.
Offices and staff housing needed for the project administration and agricul-
tural services would be built and equipment and vehicles provided. A program
of in-service training for new staff would be undertaken and consultants would
be provided to assist in surveys and planning of land reform and for a study
of the constraints to development of collective lands on a national scale.
vi.       Project implementation would extend over 5-1/4 years, 1975-1980, at
an estimated cost of US$32.4 million, of which the foreign exchange component
would be US$14 million or 53% of project costs excluding local duties and
taxes but including contingencies.
vii.      The foreign exchange would be financed from the IDA credit and would
include the c.i.f. cost of vehicles and equipment (or 70% of the ex-factory
cost where these are locally manufactured or assembled), the foreign costs or
80% of the total cost of employing consultants, and the foreign exchange com-
ponent of project civil works estimated to be 47% of the total cost. Air
photography and contract services for surveys, mapping and preparation of plans
for land reform together with civil works contracts for rehabilitating and
extending the Betit irrigation system, and contracts for the supply of equip-
ment and vehicles would be procured by international competitive bidding.
Other construction works, because of their small size and the scattered
nature of the works, would be procured by local competitive bidding under
normal Government procedures. Local currency expenditure would be financed
by Government budget allocations reserved for exclusive use under the project.
viii.     The consultant study of tribal collective lands would be carried out
in the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(MARA) would implement the balance of the project through its Meknes Provincial
Services (SP) supported by the Directorates of Agricultural Development, Equip-
ment and Livestock of the Ministry. SP would be reorganised to undertake the
project, existing staff would be augmented, and the Deputy to the Chief of SP
would be responsible for project implementation.
ix.       The project would increase agricultural production by an estimated
US$6.8 million annually as a result of both improved yields and increased
cropping intensity. The project is expected to generate net annual foreign
exchange savings of about US$2.3 million. The economic rate of return, based
on a 25-year project life, is estimated to be 24% and would be at least 12%
on the basis of the most adverse assumptions of project costs and benefits.
The economic rate of return of the improvement and expansion of the Betit
irrigation system is also estimated to be 24%.
x.        Agreement having been reached on the principal issues and subject
to the conditions of effectiveness, the project is suitable for an IDA credit
of US$14 million to the Kingdom of Morocco, on the usual terms.



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has expressed interest in
an IDA Credit of US$14 million to help finance an Agriculture Development
Project in the Meknes region.
1.02      The potential for development of the Meknes area was examined as
part of the Sebou Project Studies undertaken jointly by the Moroccan Govern-
ment and UNDP/FAO in 1963-1968. The Meknes Agriculture Development Project
was identified by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program Mission in June 1972
and was prepared following a further Cooperative Program Mission in May/June
1973.
1.03      This report is based on information provided by the Moroccan
Authorities and the findings of an Appraisal Mission in June 1974 consisting
of Messrs. J.C. Collins, H. van Wersch, D. von Samson and Ms. S. Fukuda (IDA)
and Mr. F. Mortier (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program). Mr. J. Guillot-Lageat
(IDA) attended one of the mission's final meetings with Moroccan Government
officials.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Description
2.01      The annual growth of agricultural value added averaged 5.9% during
1967-72, mainly due to a rapid growth of irrigation, increased use of ferti-
lizer and other inputs and increased production of high value crops. The
long-term growth trend of agriculture was estimated by the Bank's Economic
Mission (1973) to be about 3% per annum, exceeding the population growth rate
in rural areas. In 1972, agriculture accounted for about 27% of GDP (at 1960
prices), and employed about 55% of the labor force; about 30% of agricultural
output was exported. The agricultural trade surplus has equalled about 20% of
Morocco's merchandise imports.  Morocco's agricultural exports are very much
directed towards Europe, with France absorbing more than 50%.
2.02      Development of Moroccan agriculture has been the responsibility of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) through its Agricultural
Development Directorate (DMVA) and such public organizations as the National
Cereals and Pulses Office (ONICL) and the Trade and Export Office (OCE). The
main objectives under the Second Development Plan (1968-72) were the extension
of large-scale irrigation, expansion of credit to large and medium farmers and
export promotion. These policies together with favorable weather conditions,
resulted in GDP growth of about 5.6% per annum, but income differences within
rural areas as well as between rural and urban areas widened. The latest
Bank Economic Mission estimated that "in real terms average consumption



declined slowly for about one-third of the rural population". Growth benefits,
therefore, accrued mainly to medium and large farmers particularly in-the
irrigation sector.
2.03      Under the Second Plan's investment program, DÉ 2.5 billion was
allocated to agriculture, of which 63% was for irrigation, 7% for rainfed
agriculture and 4% for livestock production, with the remainder in a mis-
cellaneous category. The Third Plan, 1973-77, allocates 13% of the total
investment in agriculture to rainfed production, treble the amount allocated
under the previous Plan. It also places emphasis on the distribution of
rainfed lands recovered from foreign owners. This shift in investment policy
has been advocated by IDA over the years.
B. Previous Agriculture Projects
2.04      The Bank's first loan for agriculture in Morocco was US$17.5 mil-
lion for the Sidi Slimane Irrigation Project in 1965 (Loan 389-MOR). The
project increased the storage capacity of the El Kansara reservoir and pro-
vided for extension of an existing irrigated area served from the dam. Though
performance under the project was satisfactory as far as civil works and
agricultural development were concerned delays arose due to a series of
reorganizations within the agricultural and irrigation services. By mid-
1967 these problems had been overcome and the project was completed in 1970.
2.05      In 1966 a loan of US$10 million for an Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 433-MOR) was made to the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA).
The loan helped finance a three year lending program for on farm development
and purchase of agricultural equipment. Initial progress was disappointing
and the loan was temporarily suspended in 1968 until a mutually satisfactory
agreement was reached between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance on a
reorganization of the local credit agencies involved in the project. The
loan was fully disbursed by September 1969.
2.06      A Second Agricultural Credit Project under which CNCA vill borrow
US$10 million from IDA (Credit 338-MOR) over a three year period and a fur-
ther US$24 million from IBRD (Loan 861-MOR) commenced in 1972. The project
will help finance farm equipment for rainfed grain production, on farm
improvements for citrus and winter vegetable production, livestock develop-
ment and marketing facilities for export produce. The project is progressing
satisfactorily.
2.07      The Sebou I project was financed in 1969 (Loan 643-MOR) and was
followed by Sebou II Project in 1974 (Loan 1018-MOR). The first project pro-
vided for construction of the Idriss I Dam to store irrigation water for
about 90,000 ha gross and the construction of new (38,300 ha) and improvement
of existing (5,000 ha) irrigation works for a first phase development of
43,300 ha net. Further studies to more accurately delineate the irrigable
area and to determine the most economic means of providing protection from
flood damage have reduced the area to be newly irrigated to 35,200 ha.  In ad-
dition, improvements were to be undertaken in rainfed agriculture on a further
26,700 net. Lack of continuity of senior management has been a persistent



- 3 -
problem and difficulties have been experienced over procurement and in
enforcement by the project authority of the new legally established cropping
patterns. However, these problems have now been resolved. Progress with
civil works has been in general satisfactory and the dam has been completed
on schedule. Land consolidation and redistribution is being undertaken
throughout the project area and provision has been made for improvement of
agricultural services, roads, flood protection and crop processing facilities.
2.08      To finance the Souss Groundwater Project a US$18.5 million loan
(720-MOR) was made in 1975 to develop irrigation on 7,300 ha, of which 1,000
ha are presently irrigated by traditional methods. The currently non-irrigat-
ed area of 6,300 ha would be provided with sprinkler irrigation. Water would
be pumped from wells. The project would also provide for land consolidation,
distribution and preparation; farm access roads and windbreaks; buildings and
equipment for extension, training and operation and maintenance. Finally,
village infrastructue, including streets, water supply, schools and health
centers, would be created to benefit the project area population of about
13,000 persons.
III. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Area
3.01      Location.  The Project Area is located southeast of Meknes and
extends over about 170,000 ha comprising the Districts (Rural Communes) of
Dir, Sebaa Aioun, Ain Taoujdat and Tizguit (MAP IBRD 11201).
3.02      Topography.  The Sais plain at an altitude of 400 - 500 m and Meknes
plain at 600 - 1,000 m total about 100,000 ha. The land is gently rolling,
intersected by steep sided gullies in the west and with local rocky outcrops.
The plains are bordered on the south by a steep escarpment at the foot of
which topography is very undulating. The Causse is a mountainous region lying
south of the escarpment, rising to about 1,700 meters and totaling about 70,000
ha.
3.03      Population.  The present population of the four communes which
comprise the project is estimated to be 70,300 or 12,650 families, 85% of
which presently have an income below one-third of the national average in-
come. The average family comprises five or six individuals. About 90%
derive all or a significant part of their livelihood directly from agri-
culture as follows:
Families
Cultivation of freehold holdings                  3,770
Collective cultivation and grazing rights         4,205
Permanent agricultural employment                   900
Seasonal agricultural employment                  2,800
Total in agriculture                  11,675
Employment in the service sector                    700
Unemployed                                          275
Total                                 12,650



- 4 -
3.04      Communications, Transport and Power.  The plains are traversed by
an extensive network of surfaced all-weather roads which provides an adequate
communications system for movement of agricultural inputs and produce.  The
Causse is less well served being traversed by two all-weather roads linking
El Hajeb to Ifrane and Azrou, and elsewhere small communities are served only
by tracks, sometimes surfaced with stone which are, however, adequate for the
limited production of the area. The project area is bounded on the north by
both the RP 1 primary road and main railway line linking Fez and Meknes to
the urban centers of Rabat and Casablanca on the coast. High tension lines of
22 kVA cross the area and are adequate for present and future power demand in
the project area.
B. Natural Resources
3.05      Soils.  Soils in the plains are moderately deep (average 40 cm,
though in places they may exceed 1 m) and calcareous. Adjacent to rock out-
crops and at the foot of the escarpment shallow (20 cm), stony soils pre-
dominate. The soils were surveyed at reconnaissance level (1 site/230 ha
average) under the UNDP Sebou Project (1963-1968). More detailed surveys,
undertaken locally, for land distribution, confirm the great soil variability
with regard to depth and stoniness. In the Causse flat or gently sloping
areas occur having shallow (20 cm) stony soils with frequent rock outcrops.
Narrow valley bottoms have limited areas of alluvial soils which locally,
after removal of stones, are suitable for intensive cultivation. The steeper
mountain slopes are bare rock or are covered by very shallow soils with sparse
vegetation.
3.06      Climate.  The west and north coastal areas of Morocco have a
Mediterranean type climate. Moist westerly winds off the Atlantic Ocean
bring winter rains and cool temperatures which, however, seldom fall below
freezing.  Sea breezes temper the summer heat and occasional thunderstorms
occur though precipitation during summer is relatively unimportant. Further
inland the Rif and the Atlas Mountains receive heavy winter rains on their
western slopes which form the catchments of the river systems traversing the
coastal plain. Beyond the mountains rainfall is sparse and high summer
temperatures prevail, giving rise to arid conditions.
3.07      Annual average rainfall in the plains ranges from about 450 mm in
the vicinity of Ain Taoujdat to about 625 mm at El Hajeb. The rainfall is
mainly confined to the winter months November - April. During dry years such
as would recur on average once in five years, rainfall is about 80% of aver-
age and similarly distributed so that over the five month period November -
March, two consecutive months each with less than 50 mm rainfall rarely occur.
3.08      The Causse has a high annual rainfall with an average of 1,100 mm
at Ifrane.
3.09      Estimated total annual evapotranspiration based on climatic data is
about 800 mm on the plains and about 700 mm in the Causse.  Estimated



- 5 -
monthly evapotranspiration normally exceeds total monthly rainfall throughout
the period May - October and during this time the total deficit, ranges from
450 to 600 mm.
3.10      Water Resources.  Because of the permeable nature of the terrain,
evaporation and surface runoff are low and a large proportion of the rainfall
goes to replenish the groundwater aquifers. The streams which traverse the
project area derive from two catchments. That of the Oueds R'dom, Ouslame
and Defali, covers an area of about 1,200 km2 of which some 25% is in the
Causse and the remainder in the plains. That of the Oueds Mikkes, Madhouma
and Tizguit covers about 1,650 km2, equally divided between Causse and
plains.
3.11      At the foot of the escarpment a series of springs occur, notably
those at Ribaa and Betit. Part of the flow from these springs is utilized
to provide urban water requirements for Meknes while the remainder is used to
serve existing irrigation networks.
3.12      Underneath the plains, the phreatic aquifer which lies about 10 m
deep in the north and about 30 m deep in the south, is already exploited and,
90 wells have been constructed by the Division of Water Resources of the
Ministry of Public Works (DRE) to depths from 10 to 50 m. These wells in
general have been successful, some delivering in excess of 30 1/sec. Some
550 private wells have also been constructed both for potable water supply
and for livestock, and irrigation, particularly irrigation of orchards and
fruit tree nurseries. In the interest of irrigated agriculture, DRE does
not plan to exploit the aquifer further to meet the increasing water demand
for Meknes and Fez.
3.13      A deep aquifer exists and has been partly studied by bores in the
neighbourhood of Hadj Kaddour where artesian wells deliver 100 1/sec. It is
currently being tapped to augment the supply for Meknes town. Studies under-
taken by DRE indicate that further exploitation of the deep aquifer will not
adversely affect the availability of water from the phreatic quifer.
C. Land Tenure
3.14      Land tenure in the area is complex, having developed from the
interaction of the Arabic and Berber traditions, modified by regional varia-
tions and by the subsequent legislative actions of the French Protectorate
and most recently of the independent Moroccan Government (Annex 1). During
the Protectorate, extensive areas were made available to foreign settlers
under official settlement schemes and through private sales, both facilitated
by legislation permitting expropriation of tribal collective lands. Follow-
ing independence, this foreign-owned land has been expropriated under laws
of 1963 affecting official settlement, and of 1973 affecting private owner-
ship. The cultivated lands expropriated in 1963 have been largely distribut-
ed to Moroccans in holdings of 12 ha on average under a cooperative manage-
ment system. The remainder, together with expropriated plantations, is



- 6-
currently managed by the Government's Farm Development Corporation (SODEA),
established for this purpose. The Government has expressed its intention to
return the plantations to private ownership when a satisfactory system has
been developed to ensure that productivity is maintained. The cropped land
expropriated in 1973 is managed by the Government's Agricultural Land Manage-
ment Corporation (SOGETA) until such time as arrangements for distribution of
this land to private owners are completed.
3.15      Prior to the expropriation laws, extensive areas under foreign
ownership were sold back to Moroccans. There are presently some 200 Moroccan
owned farms over 50 ha which occupy about 27,000 ha (25%) of the cultivated
land in the project area. Of the land expropriated by Government some 5,500
ha is claimed by 30 Moroccans as having been legitimately purchased and the
disputed ownership has yet to be decided.
3.16      A substantial part of the project area consists of tribal collective
lands to which the members of a tribe or its subdivision have an inalienable
use right under trusteeship of the State. This right is shared by all members
of the tribe or collective group. Individual farmers have recognized and
permanent rights to cultivate a particular piece of land. Legal provisions
for access to seasonal credit and other services are the same for farmers on
collective land and on freehold land.
3.17      The present ownership of land in the area (Annex 1 Table 1) is sum-
marized as follows:
(ha)
2,995 individual owners of private freehold holdings         47,870
775 owners of private freehold on cooperatives                9,340
4,205 holders of rights to tribal collective land            37,300
Agricultural land held in trust for charitable use            2,650
Expropriated lands held by the State                         27,600
State land used by tribal collectives for grazing             7,000
Other State land mainly non-agricultural (includes
forests, military areas, public highways, etc.)             38,200
169,970
Though various forms of co-ownership and share-cropping are prevalent, data
are inadequate to determine their extent.
3.18      The distribution of holding size for private freehold is sharply
skewed with about 7% of the land owners occupying 57% of the land in holdings
exceeding 50 ha, while over 50% of the owners have holdings under 5 ha and
together occupy only 7% of the land (Annex 1, Table 2). Right of cultivation
for tribal collective land has only a moderately skewed distribution around
the mode which is estimated to be about 4.8 ha. New freehold holdings on
cooperatives established under the land reform program average 12 ha each and
range from about 8 to 20 ha depending on the productivity potential of the
land.



- 7 -
D. Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields
3.19      About 60% of the project area is cultivated (Annex 2), 15% consists
of rough grazing and 25% is forest and nonagricultural land. The cultivated
land comprises:
Orchards          Irrigated        Rainfed
and Vineyards       Annual Crops  Annual Crops
---------------------(ha)--------------------
Private freehold and
Cooperatives                         3,100              4,990           54,120
Collectives                             -                1,100           18,070
Expropriated land under Govern-
ment management                      4,350              2,660           17,450
Charitable trust land                   -                  -              2,650
7,450              8,750           92,290
About 40,000 ha of cultivated land consists of farms where rainfed cultivation
presently uses traditional methods. Soil preparation is by animal-drawn farm
implements and little use is made of fertilizers. These farms comprise the
small and medium-sized private freehold holdings, tribal collective lands and
charitable trust land. The remnainder use modern methods including tractor-
drawn implements, fertilizers and to a lesser extent, mainly on the expropriat-
ed state managed lands, pesticides and weedicides. Most of the irrigated land
is farmed in conjunction with a rainfed area on mixed holdings. The orchards
under freehold ownership are mainly olives while the expropriated lands in-
clude most of the apple, pear and stone fruit orchards and vineyards.
3.20      Rainfed land is farmed under a basic two-year rotation of wheat
followed in the case of traditional cultivation by a grazed weed fallow or a
legume crop, and in the case of modern cultivation by a legume or occasional-
ly sunflower. Vetch/oats for forage is also grown in the second year either
for feeding to livestock or for sale.
3.21      Vines grow well without irrigation and wine production is an import-
ant industry in the area. Olives are also successful but little new planting
has taken place recently.
3.22      Where surface water, springs or wells can provide irrigation during
the dry summer months, vegetables, tobacco and tree fruits are the main
crops. Early potatoes, planted after a crop of wheat and harvested in spring,
followed by a summer onion crop is the most common rotation.
3.23      The present average yields of the major crops in the project area
under traditional and modern rainfed agriculture and under irrigation are
as follows:



- 8 -
Rainfed Crops             Irrigated Crops
Traditional          Modern       Traditional
Crop                         Causse Plains         Plains        and Modern
--------------------ton/ha---------------------
Durum wheat                    0.6    1.0             1.8              3.0
Bread wheat                      -      -             2.0               -
Legumes (chick peas)            -      0.6            1.0
Sunflower                       -       -             1.0               -
Late potatoes                   -       -              -              20.0
Winter vegetables               -       -              -              10.0
Summer vegetables               -       -              -             20.0
Onions                          -       -              -              25.0
3.24      Livestock production in the Meknes area is mainly confined to the
traditional agriculture sector. The few large modern private farms with
more than 50 cattle are gradually withdrawing from livestock operations be-
cause of high labor costs, whereas small farms often have under utilized
family labor. About 60% of farmers in the area own livestock; of these over
90% own cattle but only 40% sheep. Many small herds and flocks are also
owned by landless families who rely on grazing communal pastures and road-
sides, augmented in summer by stubbles.  Rainfed farms produce vetch/oats
forage which with weed fallows and wheat and legume straws form the basic
feed resource, supplemented by wheat bran and'dried sugar beet pulp.
3.25      Brown Atlas, the local cattle breed, is small, seldom exceeding 350
kg liveweight, and is well adapted to local conditions. Its annual milk pro-
duction averages below 1,000 kg. Tarentaise and Friesian predominate the
imported breeds and give successful crosses with the local cattle.
3.26      Milk is produced primarily for home consumption but some is market-
ed, private vendors playing an important role. Production is seasonal due to
spring calving and the dry summer climate. A dairy plant at Meknes has a
capacity of 15,000 kg milk/8-hour day but presently processes only 5-6,000
kg. The Livestock Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture has built four
collection centers in the area but as electricity and water are not yet con-
nected they are inoperative.
3.27      Annual meat production of the area is estimated to be about 760
ton dressed weight beef and 465 ton mutton, the animals being sold for
slaughter mostly through small local markets. The municipal slaughterhouse
at Meknes is presently underutilized.
E. Marketing and Cooperatives
3.28      Agricultural production is marketed both through public agencies
and private channels. Cereals are purchased by ONICL through a network of
licensed intermediaries (market cooperatives and private traders).  Pulses



- 9 -
and vegetables are sold in the local markets or processed in the region. Tree
crops are generally sold to traders or processors "on the tree". The region
has nine processing facilities each handling a variety of fruits and/or vege-
tables. In addition, there is one large private fruit conditioning center and
a number of small ones owned by SODEA.  OCE handles all fresh and processed
fruit and vegetable exports.
3.29      The most common form of land reform cooperative in Morocco, which
in this report have been called standard cooperatives are ones in which mem-
bers have full title to their individual farms.  Two other types of coopera-
tive exist. Production cooperatives are established on lands, especially
large orchards, which for technical or managerial reasons, can best be ope-
rated as a single unit rather than be distributed among individual farmers.
Mixed cooperatives comprise both individually owned and operated lots and a
part, usually orchard, which is operated collectively by the members. Member-
ship of standard cooperatives is compulsory for beneficiaries under Govern-
ment's land distribution program and for collective right holders whose rights
are transformed into freehold.
3.30      The role of standard cooperatives includes supervision and control
ot the farming operations to ensure that members fulfil their obligations
(Annex 3). These require set cropping patterns and cultivation practices
to be followed. The cooperatives also provide centralized purchase of in-
puts and sale of produce, and undertake recovery of taxes and charges and
by members.
F. Credit
3.31      CNCA and its Local Agricultural Credit Banks (CLCA) are the princi-
pal credit sources.  The former lends to medium- and large-scale farmers ini-
cluding cooperatives while the latter serves individual small farmers; both
are performing satisfactorily. Other credit sources are commercial banks,
input suppliers and farm machinery dealers. Traders and money lenders play
an important role in providing seasonal credit, but its magnitude has not been
quantified.
3.32      Nominal annual interest rates for seasonal loans are 6% at CNCA,
about 7% at CLCA, and 8% at commercial banks. Medium- and long-term agricul-
tural loans carry interest rates at 6.5% at CLCA and 6.5-8% at CNCA.
G. Agricultural Support Services
3.33      MARA operates through DMVA and its Equipment and Livestock Directo-
rates. DMVA operates 22 Provincial Service Offices (SP) and about 100 Dis-
trict Extension Offices (CT) while in designated Development Zones it has
established eight Regional Agricultural Development Offices (ORMVA), auto-
nomous authorities structured to meet the needs of project development.



- 10 -
MARA prefers to use the existing SP and CT organizations for development in
the rainfed areas so as to avoid the eventual creation of a large number of
autonomous authorities together responsible for most of the agricultural
land in Morocco.
3.34      In the Meknes area, the SP has already undertaken a land redistri-
bution program under which 26 cooperatives have been established and is res-
ponsible for their management. The CT at El Hajeb provides extension services
to farmers who are not cooperative members, but it is inadequately staffed.
3.35      The Government owned Moroccan Agricultural Company (COMAGRI) has
a farm in the project area. It is responsible for seed multiplication and
for the breeding of improved cattle which are sold almost entirely outside
the Meknes area through the CTs.
3.36      The National Agricultural Research Institute has 20 stations
throughout Morocco including a Cereals Research Station at Fez and a Fruit
Research Station at Ain Taoujdat, which are adequate for the needs of the
project area.
3.37      The School of Agriculture of Meknes, established in 1945, trains
30 agriculture students each year to the graduate level.  The Hassan II
National Agronomic Institute in Rabat, created in 1967, provides a six-year
program and currently produces some 40 graduates as well as undertaking
postgraduate training.
3.38      Agriculturalists are trained to a level suitable for appointment
as Agricultural Assistants at four agricultural schools, one in Meknes
specializing in horticultural crops. They provide a two-year post-secondary
training of which the first year is general and the second specialized with
provision for practical work. Four similar schools provide training in re-
lated fields and include a School for Agricultural Engineering and Surveying
at Meknes.
3.39      Agricultural Agents receive two years' practical post-primary train-
ing at one of three centers in Morocco under DMVA.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The objective of the project is to augment agricultural production
in the four Districts which comprise the project area through the extension
of improved management and agricultural practices, and to extend the benefits
from such production more widely. In particular, the Government would under
the project link the distribution of expropriated, former foreign-held lands



- il -
to expansion of small freehold farms into viable units, and the provision of
new holdings to landless agricultural workers and former right holders on
tribal collective lands. Newly created and expanded freehold holdings would
be grouped in cooperatives. Existing legislation would be applied recognising
perpetual use rights of individuals remaining on collective lands and con-
trolling fragmentation of their enlarged holdings; their participation in co-
operatives would be encouraged. Experience gained in developing the tribal
land would be of value to the Government in formulating policies and projects
for development of such lands elsewhere in Morocco.
B. Description
4.02      Project Works and Services.  These are described more fully in
Annex 4 and would comprise:
(a) aerial photography of about 200,000 ha to a scale of
1:12,500;
(b) soil, topographic, cadastral, and socio-economic surveys of
about 135,000 ha and preparation of maps to a scale of 1:5,000
followed by preparation of plans for and implementation of a
land reform program;
(c) destoning of about 5,000 ha of cultivable land;
(d) construction of about 160 km of earth access roads;
(e) construction of wells to provide potable water for new
cooperatives and installation of pumps, storage tanks and
distribution systems to stand pipes;
(f) construction of stores for group centers serving four
cooperatives where adequate storage buildings do not already
exist;
(g) rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and drainage system
serving about 3,500 ha in the Betit area and extension of the
system to serve about an additional 500 ha;
(h) construction of small irrigation systems to serve about 600 ha
on newly established cooperatives utilizing surplus water
available from wells constructed for potable water supply;
(i) 'construction of offices needed for project administration,
and staff housing for agricultural extension agents;
(j) purchase of equipment and vehicles for project administra-
tion and agricultural services;



- 12 -
(k) provision of adequate personnel to staff the pro;ject administra-
tion and the agricultural services and their in-service training;
and
(1) provision of consultants to assist in the surveys and preparation
of plans for land reform, for a nation-wide study of the constraints
limiting development of collective lands and for such other needs
as may arise.
4.03      The land reform program will include the consolidation of fragmented
medium and small freehold and tribal collectively-held lands and the redistri-
bution of about 19,000 ha of Government-owned land. The land redistribution
program would benefit existing owners of small non-viable freehold farms,
landless agricultural workers and collective rightholders. Recipients of
new holdings under land redistribution would be required to relinquish their
existing rights, freehold land reverting to Government where it would con-
tribute to the common pool of land for redistribution, while collective land
would become available to expand the holdings of those remaining in the col-
lective. Membership of cooperatives would be compulsory for beneficiaries of
land redistribution and would be encouraged on a voluntary basis for right-
holders remaining on tribal collective land.  Legislation for land redistri-
bution prevents fragmentation of the newly created holdings and fragmentation
of collective lands would be limited under existing legislation to division
between heirs subject to the approval of the Ministry of Interior. Under
the project such approval would only be given when the holdings created by
division were each viable on the basis of criteria already established for
holdings created under land redistribution.
4.04      Though the processes for land consolidation and for land redistri-
bution have been established separately, the two may be most efficiently
undertaken concurrently. The legislation for land consolidation requires that
each owner should receive land assessed to be equal in value to that which he
previously held. However, the law does not prevent owners of small areas who,
following consolidation, would receive additional land under the land reform
program, doing so before they occupy their new holdings. Tle integration of
the two operations has been achieved in irrigated areas. An understanding
was reached during negotiations and is recorded in the Agreed Minutes of
Negotiations that a guideline setting out the technical requirements for
integrating land consolidation and distribution would form an annex to the
bidding documents for Land Reform contracts which would be approved by the
Association.
4.05      The destoning operation is presently undertaken using a crawler
tractor equipped with a rear-mounted subsoiler to bring large stones to the
surface. One or more such operations are carried out and the Stones are col-
lected each time by hand and piled along the field boundaries. On sloping
land the piled stones provide a terrace effect reducing erosion. A front-
mounted rock-rake which may be more efficient than the subsoiler and would
permit mechanisation of much of the clearing work now done by hand would be
provided for experimental purposes to determine the relative cost efficiency
of mechanical and hand destoning in view of reported seasonal labor shortages.



- 13 -
4.06      Earth roads have already been constructed to acceptable standards
to serve existing cooperatives in the project area. Similar roads would be
constructed to serve the cooperatives established under the project. The
6 m wide roads are suitable for cars, lorries and agricultural tractors and
trailers except after periods of heavy rain which occur during the winter
season when traffic is minimal. Wells would be constructed to provide
household water supplies for the cooperatives as well as providing water for
livestock and for limited irrigation.
4.07      The large foreign-owned farms which have been expropriated, and
which would be redistributed under the project, all had extensive farm buil-
dings which would generally provide adequate storage and office facilities
for the cooperatives to be established. Where additional buildings are need-
ed, however, provision for their construction has been included.
4.08      The existing irrigated area at Betit is served by a concrete-lined
main canal about 11 km long. Rationalization and lining of secondary and
tertiary canals would eliminate evaporation and seepage losses estimated to
total about 0.3 m3/sec and enable about 500 ha of additional land to be irri-
gated without increasing the present flow at the canal head. The additional .
area will be located adjacent to and downstream of the present irrigated area.
Drainage of about 250 ha where a high water table now adversely affects crop
production would be undertaken. A survey of the existing system is needed
before construction as a basis for final designs. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that, prior to implementation of the irrigation works
in the Betit scheme, a survey of the existing system would be undertaken,
both as the basis for design of the improvements and extensions to be built
and to confirm the quantity and quality of the water which would be available
to irrigate the lands to be served by the extensions.
4.09      The existing office facilities for DMVA's Meknes SP are inadequate
and provision would be made to provide the necessary additional office space
together with local offices and other buildings for the agricultural services.
4.10      Office equipment for the project administration and vehicles and
equipment needed for the agricultural services are provided under the project
(Annex 4, Table 1).
4.11      Consultant services totalling 66 man-months are provided under the
project.  A land capability classification specialist would be required for
about 36 months to improve the evaluation of land productivity from soil sur-
veys as a basis for distributing holdings which would generate uniform family
cash incomes. To facilitate future development of collective land through-
out Morocco a nationwide reconnaissance study requiring 18 man-months of con-
sultant services would identify constraints to development and recommend
means to overcome them. A further 12 man-months of consultant services has
been provided for such other short-term needs as may arise. Terms of refer-
ence for consultants are in Annex 5. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that:



- 14 -
(a)  Government in its Ministry of Interior would employ con-
sultants for the reconnaissance study of tribal collective
land throughout Morocco, under terns and conditions satis-
factory to the Association;
(b)  Government would, unless it and the Association otherwise
agree, employ a land capability classification consultant
for the land reform program under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
C. Status of Engineering
4.12      The project area is covered by existing general maps at 1:50,000
and 1:100,000 and by air photography at approximately 1:20,000 and 1:40,000
scales. Reconnaissance soil, hydrology, land use and land tenure studies of
the plains, made under the Sebou Project Study were mapped at 1:200,000.
Detailed studies have already been made for the redistribution of land taken
over by Government following the 1963 expropriation law and the experience
gained during this first phase program would facilitate the land consolida-
tion and redistribution measures which would be undertaken under the project.
D. Cost Estimates
4.13      The estimated project cost is US$32.4 million, including local
duties and taxes as well as contingencies. The foreign exchange component is
US$14 million or 53% of project cost excluding local duties and taxes but
including contingencies. Duties and taxes amount to US$6.0 million. Cost
estimates for civil works and major equipment are based on unit rates obtain-
ed in contracts for similar works and equipment in Morocco awarded during the
first half of 1974 and have been adjusted to a mid-1975 base level. Physical
contingencies total 15% of base costs and include 25% on cooperatives infra-
structure, 20% on land reform, 15% on irrigation works in the Betit scheme,
and 10% on destoning, administration and consultants. The high figures re-
flect uncertainties due to lack of detailed designs. Price contingencies,
which total 54% of base costs plus physical contingencies, are high due to
concentration of investments in the latter part of the implementation period
and are compounded at the following annual rates:
Year
Item                       1974      1975     1976      1977-79      1980
____________________%--------------------
Civil works components       18        16        14         12          10
Equipment                    14        12        10          8           7
Physical and price contingencies together total 78% of base costs.



- 15 -
4.14      Detailed cost estimates are in Annex 6 and are summarized below.
Discrepancies are due to rounding.
Project Cost
% Foreign
DH million               US$ million        Exchange
Local   Foreign    Total Local    Foreign  Total Component
A. Land reform      10.1      12.4      22.5   2.4        3.0      5.4     55
B. Destoning         3.9       3.1       7.0   0.9        0.8      1.7     44
C. Cooperative
infrastructure   8.2       7.7       15.9   2.0        1.8     3.8      48
D. Betit irriga-
tion scheme       6.8      5.4       12.2   1.7        1.3     3.0      44
E. Project adminis-
tration          12.6      3.1       15.7   3.0        0.8     3.8      20
F. Consultants       0.5       1.8       2.3   0.1        0.4      0.5     78
Subtotal      42.1      33.5       75.6  10.1        8.1    18.2      44
G. Contingency
allowances
1. Physical       6.5      4.8       11.3   1.6        1.2     2.8
2. Price         27.6     19.6       47.2   6.7        4.7    11.4
Total Project
Cost         76.2      57.9      134.1  18.4       14.0    32.4      43
~= =
E. Financing
4.15      The project's foreign exchange cost of US$14 million would be fi-
nanced from the IDA credit. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
adequate allocations of local currency resources would be provided by Govern-
ment.  Budget allocations for local currency requirements and foreign exchange
derived from the proceeds of the credit would be channelled to MARA for
exclusive use in the project by its Meknes SP and to the Ministry of Interior
to finance the study of tribal collective lands.
Ministry of
MARA       Interior         Total
----- US$ million equivalent ---
IDA Credit                    13.90          0.10           14.00
Government contribution       18.37          0.04           18.41
(including duties and
taxes)
32.27         0.14           32.41



- 16 -
F. Implementation
4.16      The project works would extend over a period of 5-1/4 years (1975
80) and full development would be achieved by 1985. The works would be execut-
ed and services provided by MARA's Meknes SP. DRE would provide technical sup-
port in the studies to determine the siting of new wells to be constructed
under the project.
4.17      Air photography would be flown in late 1975 in order that it may be
available for use in the cadastral, soils, topographic and socio-economic
surveys to begin in early 1976. These surveys and subsequent mapping must
precede land consolidation and it is proposed that they be undertaken first
in Sebaa Aioun District followed consecutively by Ain Taoujdat, Dir and
Tizguit Districts. The land involved in consolidation and redistribution
would then be redivided and plans prepared showing the boundaries of the new
holdings to be established. It is anticipated that for each district, except
Tizguit where the area subject to land reform is expected to total only about
6,000 ha, movement of families into new holdings would be undertaken in two
stages in consecutive years. In order that farmers affected by land reform
may harvest the current year's rainfed crops in May/June, implementation of
the boundary changes would not begin each year until July and would be com-
pleted by September, giving the beneficiaries time to undertake land prepara-
tion and planting in October/November for the subsequent year's crop. As
far as possible, construction of access roads and other infrastructure and
construction of wells for water supply and irrigation would be undertaken
prior to the distribution of the cooperative holdings to the new occupants.
4.18      The construction schedule for the project is shown in Chart 9652.
4.19      Procurement.  Air photography, contract services for the surveys,
mapping, preparation of plans, and implementation of the land reform program
together with the rehabilitation and extension of the Betit irrigation system,
and the supply of equipment and vehicles would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's "Guidelines for Procurement".
Other works under the project comprising construction of access roads, wells,
potable water supply systems, small irrigation distribution systems, stores
for cooperatives, administrative offices and staff housing and the destoning
of about 5,000 ha would be too scattered and on too small a scale to attract
foreign competition. For these items, contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local proce-
dures which are satisfactory to IDA.   Adequate local civil works contracting
organizations exist in Morocco with the experience and equipment necessary to
undertake the work.
4.20      Prior to issuing invitations to tender, DMVA would seek the Asso-
ciation's approval of the draft documents and specifications and DMVA's
evaluation of bids and recommendations for award of contracts would likewise
be sent to the Association for approval. No disbursements would be made
againts contracts awarded over the Association's objection and an equivalent
amount of the credit would be cancelled.



- 17 -
G. Disbursements
4.21      The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance the foreign ex-
change cost of the project and would be disbursed over a period of 5-1/4
years as follows:
(a) 47% of the cost of civil works;
(b) 100% of the CIF cost of equipment and vehicles, or 70% of their
ex-factory cost if purchased locally; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of the total costs of
consultants.
4.22      The proposed schedule of capital expenditures (Annex 6) is summar-
ized below. An estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is presented in
Annex 7. Savings if any, upon project completion, would be cancelled.
Moroccan Fiscal Year       1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  Total
----TUS$ million------------
Government contribution,
including customs
duties and local taxes  0.3   1.1   3.9   6.0   5.3   1.8   18.4
IDA credit                 0.3   1.3   3.1   4.7   3.6   1.0   14.0
Total                 0.6   2.4   7.0  10.7   8.9   2.8   32.4
H.  Environment and Health
4.23      The project would have no adverse impact on the environment as a
result of changes in agricultural practices in the project area.
4.24      The locally severe infestations of the weed "wild oats" in cereal
crops are already being treated on a limited scale using the herbicide Suffix.
The agricultural extension services to be established under the project
would promote wide-spread use of this effective control. As the material
degrades in the soil, there would be no hazard from contamination of streams
if it is used with normal care.
4.25      No serious diseases are endemic in the area and the health facili-
ties and medical services in the area are better than those available in
most rural areas of Morocco and are considered adequate.



- 18 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      In order to implement the project the existing staff of the Meknes
SP would be augmented. The Deputy to the Chief of the SP would be responsible
to the Chief of the SP for all activities in the project area. Within MARA
the Chief of the SP is responsible to the Secretary General but in his day-to-
day activities coordinates closely with DMVA and the Directorates of Equipment,
and Livestock. The proposed organization and staff requirements are shown in
Chart 9653.
5.02      The SP comprises an Equipment Office, which would undertake land
reform, studies, design, and construction works and an Agricultural Produc-
tion Office which would provide the management staff for the new cooperatives
to be established and those already existing in the project area, as well as
agricultural extension services for the cultivators of lands not included in
cooperatives. The SP also has an Administration Office providing accounting
and procurement services. The existing extension service for farmers, other
than those in cooperatives, is presently operated through the CT at El Hajeb.
Under the project it would be subordinate to the Meknes SP, so avoiding the
present dichotomy of extension services in the area. The existing two sub-
CT's for Sebaa Aioun and Ain Taoujdat and a new center to be established
for Tizguit would along with the CT constitute the four district extension
offices serving the farmers not organized in cooperatives. The head of the
Agricultural Production Office would have full responsibility for all aspects
of agricultural extension. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) a plan acceptable to the Association for the reorganization
of MARA's Meknes SP would be submitted to the Association
within 3 months of signing of the credit;
(b) the position of Deputy to the Chief of the Meknes SP would
be filled at all times by a person with such qualifications
and experience as shall be required for the successful carrying
out of the project and who would be responsible to the Chief
for all aspects of the project; and
(c) suitably qualified and experienced staff would be appointed
to augment the existing staff of the Meknes SP as necessary
to ensure the successful implementation of the project.
5.03      The Land Reform Section of the Equipment Office would work closely
with the Office of the Provincial Governor who represents the Ministry of the
Interior, in order to undertake the general reorganization of land tenure
including that to be carried out on tribal collective lands. The Ministry of
Interior, with the technical cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture, would
carry out those land reform operations which only concern the tribal col-
lective lands.



- 19 -
5.04      The studies and construction sections of the Equipment Office would
be assisted in the planning and development of new wells for irrigation and
potable water supply to cooperatives by DRE. To protect the water supply of
the existing and new cooperatives it is essential that further uncontrolled
private development of wells in the project area does not take place. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government would restrict future
private development of groundwater resources in the project area to avoid
over-exploitation of the aquifer.
5.05      Staffing of the cooperatives would continue to be the responsibility
of DMVA. The management of the day-to-day operations of the individual co-
operatives would be the responsibility of Agricultural Assistants appointed
for each group center serving four cooperatives. They would work under SP's
Agricultural Production Office and would each be assisted by an Agricultural
Agent to provide a group agricultural extension service, making for a ratio
of 80 cooperative farmers per extension worker. In addition, a Clerk would
be appointed for each cooperative group who would be responsible for the
supply and book-keeping activities of the group, working closely with SP's
Administration Office.  Previously, the agricultural assistants and agents
have been responsible for all aspects of cooperatives' management and the
appointment of clerks would be an innovation to achieve greater efficiency.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that DMVA would appoint suitably
qualified personnel as Clerks in each Cooperatives Group Center in the project.
B. Operation and Maintenance
5.06      The facilities provided for the cooperatives, namely access roads,
wells for potable water supply and irrigation, and stores would be maintained
and the equipment operated under the supervision of the cooperatives group
manager.
5.07      The new and rehabilitated irrigation and drainage facilities at
Betit would be operated and maintained by the Associated Union of Agricultural
Users (ASAP). Users presently pay water charges. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that Government would ensure that the Betit irrigation and
drainage system is operated and maintained in accordance with good management
practice.
C. Services and Training
5.08      Personnel recruited as Agricultural Assistants and Clerks, both to
manage newly formed cooperatives and to provide an agricultural extension
service for farmers other than those in cooperatives, would have received
formal training but generally have had only limited practical experience. In
service training programs would be required under the project to provide
instruction in the specific cropping practices applicable to the area, and
where relevant, in the role of Agricultural Assistants as managers of co-
operatives and would be provided by the specialist staff of SP. Similarly,



- 20 -
newly appointed Clerks would require in service training in their duties and
particularly in the book-keeping activities which they would undertake.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DMVA would, prepare within 9
months of credit signing, training programs acceptable to IDA and that the
agreed programs wauld be implemented by the Meknes SP within 18 months of
credit signing.
D. Credit
5.09      Seasonal as well as investment credit would be provided through
existing channels. Cooperatives would obtain loans from CNCA, as do existing
cooperatives, and private farmers would continue to use CNCA and CLCA (para
3.29). Resources of CNCA are sufficient to cover the incremental seasonal
credit requirements of DH 13.1 million (US$3.2 million) generated by the
project. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the CNCA and CLCA
would provide adequate credit to meet the needs of the farmers in the project
area and would make the provision of such credit to individual farmers condi-
tional on the farmer's acceptance of particular cropping practices and weed
control measures, as may from time to time be recommended by the SP.
E.  Land Reform
5.10      As a preliminary to implementing the land reform measures included
in the project, it would be necessary for a Ministerial Order to be issued
establishing the project area as an area of consolidation. It would then be
necessary to establish both a Land Consolidation Commission and a Land Reform
Commission. The Commissions would supervise the land consolidation and land
redistribution operations respectively and would arbitrate in any disputes
which arise. The establishment of the project area as an area of consolida-
tion by Ministerial Order followed by the establishment of a Land Consolida-
tion Commission and a Land Reform Commission, would be Conditions of Effective-
ness of the Credit.
5.11      The procedures to be followed by the contractors in preparing plans
for land consolidation and land redistribution have been established (Annex
1). Modifications to these procedures would be set out in a guideline for
integrating consolidation and redistribution which would be annexed to contract
documents. Cooperatives would be established on all newly created and expanded
freehold holdings and formation of cooperatives would be encouraged on tribal
collective lands. New income standards would be established for determining
the size of freehold holdings to be distributed and the same standards would
be used as a minimum below which division of use rights to tribal collective
lands would be prohibited. Government's standard for new holdings created
under land redistribution has been that they must be capable of generating a
net annual income of DH 4,000 in the first year after resettlement and of
DH 10,000 after 10 years of occupation. The method of calculation used by the
Government is acceptable to the Association. These income standards were



- 21 -
originally set for the land settlement schemes in the irrigation subsector and
do not reflect the more limited growth potential of income in the rainfed
sector.  An examination of potential net farm incomes from various combina-
tions of holding size and cropping pattern show that relatively little in-
crease can be anticipated as a result of improved production practices once
the approved new crop rotation has been adopted. Under the Project distribu-
tion of holdings with the potential for generating net farm incomes of
DH 6,000 in the first year of occupation is likely to result in actual net
incomes above DH 4,000 in the first year for almost all farmers in line with
previous practice and these would rise to at least DH 6,000 and possibly
DH 8,000 over 10 years. Unless a cooperative adopted a more sophisticated
cropping system, however, farmers would be unlikely to achieve DH 10,000. The
above income targets must be seen in the context of the present national
average family income (for a family of 5) of DH 6,300'and a projected 1985
income level of DR 10,200. 1/ An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
the income standards adopted for determining the size of holdings to be dis-
tributed under the project, would be limited to providing a first year income
potential of DH 6,000 and that the procedure used to assess land productivity
for the purpose of land reform planning would be acceptable to the Association.
5.12      Variation in the fertility of land in different parts of the proj-
ect area, the local availability of orchards for redistribution and the exist-
ence of irrigated land for redistribution or the availability of water to sup-
ply new irrigation will result in the composition of typical holdings varying
widely from one location to another. The number of farmers presently occupying
tribal collective land who would receive new holdings under the Government's
land redistribution program would depend on the acceptability of the Govern-
ment's reform proposals. It is thus impossible to establish in advance the
degree to which decongestion of the tribal lands would be achieved. On the
basis of present estimates of land capability and irrigation potential and the
present areas of irrigated and orchard lands for redistribution over the proj-
ect area as a whole, three kinds of cooperatives are proposed for which the
average holding meeting the above income standards would be as follows:
(a) standard cooperatives comprising holdings averaging 6 ha
rainfed and 1.5 ha irrigated;
(b) mixed cooperatives comprising individual holdings averaging
3 ha rainfed with each member having an equal 1 ha share in
a communal orchard; and
(c) production cooperatives, the members of which would each have
an equal 1 ha share in a communal orchard.
1/   Assuming a 4.5% annual growth rate in per capita income.



- 22 -
A proportion of the profits from operation of the orchard lands belonging to
mixed and production cooperatives would be retained in ,the cooperatives'
reserve fund and the balance would be shared among the members, part on an
equal basis per family and part in proportion to the labor input provided by
the family over the year.
F. Recovery of Costs
5.13      At present land payments for cooperative holdings range between
DH 2,000 and DH 2,200/ha for rainfed land in the project area.  Payments
which are expressed and paid in durum wheat, are made in 20 annual install-
ments at 4% interest, with amounts increasing from the first to the fourth
year and constant thereafter. The present average market value of rainfed
land in the area is DH 6,000/ha, that of irrigated land DH 13,000/ha and
irrigated orchards DH 20,000/ha. On the basis of farm models prepared,
cooperative members would be able to pay the market price for land received
from Government under land reform, totalling an estimated I) 138 million in
present value terms, and still retain adequate production incentives. This
market price would reflect the cost of improvements executed under the proj-
ect. No direct recovery of the cost of implementing land reform, of the
capital cost of cooperatives infrastructure other than land improvements,
or of the cost of project administration and extension services, is proposed.
The cost of road construction would be recovered through fuel taxes and
vehicle taxes. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that Government
would charge beneficiaries from the program of distribution of state land
in the project area the fair market value for land so distributed.
5.14      Because of the anticipated decline in the present high price of
apples, a variable income stabilization levy, linked to apple prices, may
have to be considered. This levy would permit an accelerated repayment sched-
ule for apple orchards consisting of installments decreasing from the first
year onwards. Any balance of the stabilization levy over land payments would
be used by the cooperative to help meet its capital requirements. During
negotiations an informal understanding was reached that Government would take
necessary measures in the event of a decline in apple prices.
5.15      Operation and maintenance costs of the infrastructure provided to
the cooperatives would be recovered by the cooperatives from their members
as specified in their articles of agreement.
5.16      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that farmers benefiting
from the existing irrigation works in the Betit area to be rehabilitated under
the project and from the extension of the system would be charged the full
cost of operating and maintaining the scheme, that farmers benefiting from the
extension and rehabilitation would be charged a reasonable proportion of the
capital costs of the works and that the charges would be billed and collected
promptly.



- 23 -
5.17      The cost recovery index for the Betit irrigation scheme would be
50% on the assumption that a reasonable level of capital cost recovery would
be that provided for by the Agricultural Investment Code for areas estab-
lished as Irrigation Zones (Annex 8). The incremental income tax revenues
generated by the project are estimated at DH 18.4 million in present value
terms, using a 10% social discount rate. These tax revenues would recover
38% of the capital and recurrent cost of indirect productive investments and
social infrastructure, i.e., land reform, water supply on cooperatives, and
project administration and agricultural extension services. The overall cost
recovery, based on total capital and recurrent cost of the project and on the
revenues from Betit irrigation farmers and incremental income taxes, is
estimated at 41%.
5.18      The financial rate of return over the 25-year life of the project
is -6%, based on total project capital and recurrent cost and on the reve-
nues generated by the Betit irrigation charges and income taxes.
G. Accounts and Audit
5.19      It will be necessary for Government to create separate accounting
systems for the project within the Meknes SP and in the Ministry of Interior.
The project's accounting system within the Meknes SP will include provision
to separately record the amounts collected from individual cooperative members
in payment for their land. The accounts would also show the amounts of charges
collected as repayment of capital costs and for operation and maintenance of
the Betit irrigation scheme. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
systems of project accounts acceptable to the Association would be established
in the Meknes SP and, specifically for the study of tribal collective lands,
in the Ministry of Interior, within six months of credit signing, that the
accounts would be subject to an annual audit acceptable to the Association and
the accounts together with the audit report would be submitted to the Associa-
tion within 4 months of the end of each fiscal year.
H.  Monitoring
5.20      During project implementation continuous collection of data will be
necessary as a basis for decision-making by project management. An import-
ant function of the reports will be to provide early warning of developing
problems which, unless corrected, could prejudice the success of the project.
5.21      The feature of the project most likely to present such problems is
the land reform program, and particularly the reform of collective land tenure.
While the preliminary survey work should present no major difficulties, sub-
sequent planning of the new tenure pattern is a complex problem in which



- 24 -
social and political attributes of the individual farmers as well as the
physical characteristics of the lands they presently, and will in the future
occupy, must be taken into account. Furthermore, no matter how well the con-
tractors may prepare such plans, some inequalities are certain to remain and
these are sure to cause some degree of dissatisfaction during and after
implementation of the reforms. By reporting regularly on progress with sur-
veys, planning and implementation of reforms for the various tenure categories
involved, delays may be identified and the causes investigated. Progress
with other project works will be adequately monitored through normal reporting
of physical progress.
5.22      Acceptability of the project, and in the long run its success, will
to a large extent depend on the achievement of family incomes for the members
of the new cooperatives which provide an adequate incentive. Data is already
being kept by the managers of existing cooperatives on the annual cash incomes
and production costs of individual members. This practice would continue and
data collection and analysis would be supervised by a qualified statistician.
Furthermore, he would institute a detailed survey of the costs and returns
for a statistically chosen sample of farmers. Analysis of the data collected
would show the reasons why certain farmers' net cash incomes differ widely
from the mean and indicate possible ways of improving incomes for an appre-
ciable proportion of farm families. In addition to standard reporting obliga-
tions, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that a detailed sample survey
of incomes of cooperative members under the project and an analysis of data
collected would be undertaken.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01      At full development in 1985 the project would lead to an increase
in production of all the major crops presently grown in the area. Yields of
wheat are expected to increase by about 30% due to the adoption of modern cul-
tivation techniques while yields of irrigated vegetable crops and alfalfa are
expected to increase between 10% and 20%. Average cropping intensity for
the cultivated area would increase from about 80% to about 90%. An antici-
pated decline in yield resulting from deteriorating soil conditions in the
Betit irrigation scheme would be prevented.
6.02      Based on the crop rotations presently practiced in the area and
the rotations which would be introduced under the project, an estimate of
present and future production of the most important crops is shown below.



- 25 -
Future (1985)
Crop           Present (1975)       With Project  Without Project
-----------------(thousand tons)-----------------
Wheat                76.5               113.7            94.2
Legumes             12.0                 12.8            13.6
Sunflower            4.5                  7.2             4.5
Potatoes            26.5                 32.8            25.0
Vegetables          78.9                102.0            74.7
Onions              33.0                 40.2            31.1
Tobacco              0.09                 0.14            0.09
Alfalfa              15.0                17.9            14.3
Apples               78.0               117.0            78.0
The decline in production of irrigated crops without the project is expected
as a result of deteriorating soil conditions in about 250 ha of poorly drain-
ed land in the Betit irrigation system. The value of net incremental produc-
tion would amount to US$6.8 million by 1985.
B. Markets
6.03      The main increases in production and in marketable surpluses will
be in wheat, vegetables, potatoes and onions. Morocco is a net importer of
wheat and the project's incremental output will permit a welcome reduction
in cereal imports. The added production of vegetables, potatoes and onions
will be largely consumed within the region. Any exportable surpluses of
these commodities are likely to be small and outlets for these are assured
through the expanding regional processing industry and the existing export
market channels maintained by OCE.
C. Prices
6.04      Important agricultural inputs are subsidized by the Government and
farmgate prices of the main crops are fixed by ministerial order. The sup-
port prices for the 1973-74 cereals crop were announced in the fall of 1973
when the price of bread wheat was fixed at DH 600 (US$145)/ton and that of
durum wheat at DR 650 (US$157)/ton. Except for tobacco, the prices of the
other commodities produced in the project area are freely determined. For
the financial analysis, 1974 farmgate prices have been used for all commodi-
ties except apples for which a substantial price reduction is projected over
the next ten years. For the economic analysis, internationally traded com-
modities have been valued at projected world market prices expressed in 1974
constant terms, provided by the Bank Group's Economie Analysis and Projec-
tions Department. The two sets of prices are shown in Annex 9.



- 26 -
D. Farm Incomes
6.05       At full development the estimated family farm income of land reform
cooperative members, net of land payment, taxes and all charges and levies, is
expected to range from DR 6,210 (US$1,500) to DH 9,160 (US$2,210). Without
the project their incomes would range from DH 710 (US$170) for a traditional
farmer on the poorest tribal collective land to DH 2,400 (US$580) for a per-
manent laborer on a state owned or large private farm. Rightholders on
tribal collective land benefiting from decongestion would have their income
rise from DH 710 (US$170) without the project to DH 3,140 (US$760) or to
DH 1,215 (US$295), depending on whether or not they would join a voluntary
cooperative. In the Betit irrigation scheme extension area, the with and
without project income of a 3 ha farmer is estimated at DH 11,760 (US$2,840)
and DH 2,340 (US$565), respectively.  Details are given in Annex 9 and sum-
marized below:



- 27 -
Occupation                            Estimated Family Income /1
Present        Future
Present and Future            Future                 Without    With
Without the Project       With the Project           Project   Project  Increase
----------(DH)-----------
Traditional farmer on    Member of land
the Plain with 2 ha       reform cooperative
rainfed                   farming 6 ha rain-
fed and 1.5 ha
irrigated          1,680   1,920    8,550        345
Traditional farmer in    Member of land
the Causse (tribal        reform cooperative
collective land) with    farming 6 ha rain-
4.5 ha rainfed            fed and 1.5 ha
irrigated            710     710    9,160    1,190
Traditional farmer in    Member of land
the Causse (tribal        reform mixed co-
collective land) with    operative farming
4.5 ha rainfed            3 ha rainfed with
1 ha share in
orchard              710     710    7,180        911
Landless permanent        Member of land
agricultural worker       reform production
cooperative with
1 ha share in
orchard            2,400   2,400    6,210        159
Landless seasonal         Member of land
agricultural worker       reform production
cooperative with
1 ha share in
orchard            1,400   1,440    6,210        331
Traditional farmer in    Member of volun-
the Causse (tribal        tary cooperative
collective land) with    farming enlarged
4.5 ha rainfed            holding of 7.7 ha
rainfed              710     710    3,140        342
Traditional farmer in    Traditional farmer
the Causse (tribal        in the Causse with
collective land) with    enlarged holding
4.5 ha rainfed            of 7.7 ha rainfed   710       710    1,215        71
Freehold farmer in        Freehold farmer
Betit with 3 ha           in Betit with 3
rainfed                   ha irrigated       2,000   2,340   11,760        403
Freehold farmer in        Freehold farmer
Betit with 7.5 ha         in Betit with
rainfed                   7.5 ha irrigated  3,820   4,640   25,720         454
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 28 -
E. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.06      Economic Benefits.  The project would lead to an increase in agri-
cultural production (US$6.8 million per annum at full development) and farm
income levels by raising the productive capacity of small farmers and landless
labor, 85% of which presently have an income of less than one-third of the
average national income, in the country's major rainfed agricultural area
through land reform and improved agricultural services. These were priority
objectives of the Third Plan (1973-77). It would help to redress somewhat the
continued imbalance in investment per agricultural worker between irrigated
and rainfed agriculture and to reduce the traditional lag in the implementa-
tion rate of investments in rainfed agriculture.
6.07      Income Distribution.  The income distributional effect of the pro-
ject would be substantial as it specifically aims at increasing the farm size
of small traditional rainfed farmers and giving holdings to landless agricul-
tural workers, as well as improving the agricultural services available to
both. Due to the project, the average income of the principal beneficiaries
would rise by about 370% from the 25th percentile of the present average
national income to within 75% of the average national income projected for
1985. Non-quantified secondary benefits due to land consolidation would
chiefly affect the small and the medium-sized farms not benefiting from the
land redistribution program. The project is not expected to have an effect
on the income of the larger farmers.
6.08      Foreign Exchange.  The net annual impact on the balance of payments
from the increased production is estimated at US$2.6 million. Net of debt
service, the net annual foreign exchange savings from the project will be
about US$2.3 million.
6.09      Employment.  No major employment benefits are expected from the
project. Labor requirements will increase somewhat on traditional farms due
to substitution of legumes for fallow and in the Betit area due to an exten-
sion of the irrigated area, but the conversion of small traditional to larger
cooperative holdings under the land distribution program will lead to a re-
duction in labor requirements/ha as the cooperatives' farm methods will be
more mechanized than those of the small traditional farms.
6.10      Other Benefits.  The project would provide improved living condi-
tions to future cooperative members due to their resettlement in viable rural
centers with adequate water supply and easy access to all-weather roads.
The country-wide reconnaissance study of collectively-held lands financed
under the project would identify measures which could lead to the development
of the full economic potential of these lands.
6.11      Beneficiaries.  The principal beneficiaries would include about
6,000 recipients of new or expanded freehold holdings and about 2,500 right-
holders remaining on tribal collective lands whose holdings would be enlarged
as a result of decongestion.



- 29 -
In addition, an estimated 120 traditional dryland farmers would benefit
through the expansion of the Betit irrigated area. Together they comprise
about two thirds of the small traditional farmers in the project area and
the bulk of landless residents, 85% of which presently have an income of less
than one-third of the average national income. Secondary benefits would be
derived from land consolidation where applicable on the remaining farms and
from improved agricultural extension services. Finally, experience gained
in the implementation of land tenure reform on the fragmented tribal col-
lectively-held lands, would facilitate extension of such reforms in other
areas of Morocco.
F. Economic Evaluation
6.12      The economic benefit from the project would be derived from the
increased agricultural production resulting from yield increases and in-
creased crop intensity. The economic return for the project is estimated
at 24% and is based on a 25-year life of the project. For the Betit irri-
gation component the economic return is also 24%.
6.13      Sensitivity analysis of costs and benefits indicates a return of
12% for a combination of the two most adverse cost and benefit assumptions.
Details are given in Annex 10.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to
in Chapters 4 and 5 and subject to the conditions of effectiveness described
in para 5.10 the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$14 million to
the Kingdom of Morocco on the usual terms.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
Types of Land Tenure
1.        The numerous types of land tenure and of land use rights in
Morocco, including co-ownership and various forms of share cropping, have
arisen through the interaction of the Arabic and Berber traditions, modified
by regional variations and the subsequent legislative actions of the French
Protectorate and more recently the independent Moroccan Government. In the
resulting complex land tenure situation five basic types of legal tenure may
be distinguished:
(a) Private freehold (melk) is recognised as private property of
an individual which may be freely used and disposed of by sale
or inheritance. Children traditionally receive equal shares
of inherited melk land but when both male and female heirs
exist the latter are entitled to shares only half as large as
the former and distribution of shares to female heirs is often
not enforced. The inheritance law quickly leads to extreme
fragmentation and to overcome this, land is often held in co-
ownership (indivision). A special category of private
freehold was the private settlement land held by foreigners
(colonisation privee).
(b) Tribal Collective Land (bled jemaa> was first legally defined in
the 1919 law as land to which a village, clan, or tribe had
an inalienable and perpetual right of usufruct under trustee-
ship of the Ministry of the Interior. The right is shared
equally by all members of the collective group. Though legally
the land should be redivided between member households at least
once every ten years, this is not always done and in the project
area the last such redivision was in 1928. At present culti-
vators have recognized and permanent use rights on particular
plots of crop land.
(c) Public State Land comprises land to which the general public
has access and includes State Forests.
(d) Private State Land comprises land used by Government for a
specific purpose such as research and seed multiplication as
well as land expropriated from foreign settlers.  Official
settlement land acquired by the French Protectorate Government
and distributed to French settlers was entirely expropriated
by a nationwide law in 1963. Most of the cultivated lands
have since been distributed to small farmers while the remainder,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
together with expropriated plantations, remain State lands
for the time being and are managed by SODEA. The Government
has stated that it intends to return the plantations to pri-
vate ownership when a satisfactory system has been devised
to ensure that productivity is maintained. Legislation to
expropriate private settlement land owned by foreigners was
embodied in the Law of March 1973. The newly expropriated
orchard lands are also being managed by SODEA while another
Government company, SOGETA, was created to manage newly
expropriated lands under annual crops until arrangements
have been made for their distribution to private individuals.
(e) Charitable Trust Land (habous) includes land given to pious
or charitable institutions or to individuals with a specific
condition governing its use for charitable purposes and
prohibiting its sale.
Historical derivation
2.        Under Koranic law there exists three categories of land which are
also traditionally recognised by the local people, namely:
(i)  "Dead" land is uncultivated and is held by Government in the
name of a Muslim community;
(ii) Melk is former dead land which, after about seven years of
cultivation is recognised to be the undisputed personal property
of the cultivator; and
(iii) Habous is land donated to religious and charitable foundations.
3.        Collective land is not recognised by Koranic Law.  Its origin is
strongly debated but the evidence favors the theory that it is a Berber
tradition dating from before the Arab invasion and was the original form of
tenure in the project area. As tribal territory it was the most prevalent
form of tenure in Morocco before the Protectorate. A special category of
collective land is the guich which was a reward for military service given
by the Sultan to loyal tribal groups. It is particularly common in border
areas which were inhabited by dissident mountain Berber tribes. The Law
of 1919 made the State trustee of all collective lands, and its sale or
seizure was prohibited.
Land Reform Policy
4.        The Land Consolidation Law of 1962, the Agrarian Reform Law of 1966,
subsequently revised in 1972, and the Agricultural Investment Code of 1969
form the basis for Government's Land Reform Program. The objective is to
reverse the past trend towards increasing fragmentation of holdings through
land consolidation, and to redistribute lands expropriated from previous
foreign owners thereby encouraging investment for agricultural development.
Foreign-owned lands, on expropriation, became private State land. Orchards



ANNEX 1
Page 3
have been retained by the State and are presently managed by SODEA but Gov-
errment has stated its intention of divesting itself of these when a satis-
factory management system under individual or communal private ownership has
been evolved. Land under annual crops is distributed to individuals in
viable family holdings, the size of which is presently decided on the basis
of land productivity potential, determined by a soil survey. Such holdings
must be capable of cultivation solely by an "average" family with an esti-
mated labor input equivalent to two man-years per annum and provide the
family with an adequate income.  Though an adequate income has not been
defined by law, MARA, following an announcement by the King, has adopted a
target income of DH 4,000 (US$980) in the first year rising to DH 10,000
(US$2,450) by the tenth year after settlement as the basis for determining
holding size.
Selection of Land Redistribution Beneficiaries
5.        Beneficiaries are selected from a list of candidates on a points
system which rates applicants according to residence, age, family size,
present income, agricultural experience, and existing land ownership criteria.
Landless agricultural workers, particularly permanent employees of estates
which were expropriated, have in the past predominated among land reform
beneficiaries. The beneficiaries must be Moroccan nationals, locally born or
resident in the district for a set period of time. They must be agricul-
turalists by profession, of good character and have an income less than that
foreseen as accruing from the new holding.
6.        Under the Agrarian Reform Law, the farmer contracts with the
Government to:
(a) buy the land and pay for it in kind;
(b)  farm the entire holding himself;
(c) join a cooperative and abide by its rules;
(d) follow a set cropping pattern using acceptable cultivation
techniques;
(e)  pass on his entire holding to one heir, who has to fulfil
specific conditions, with other children receiving compensa-
tion for the land they would otherwise have inherited under
traditional law;
(f) give up all other rights to land; and
(g)  share in the cost of agricultural investment to develop the
holding.
State land may also be distributed to groups in joint ownership as production
cooperatives, though little land has been so distributed.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Land Consolidation
7.        The Consolidation Law of 1962 defines the procedures for consoli-
dation which is carried out by a special commission with the technical help
of MARA. The Law requires that everyone receive land equal in value to that
which they held previously, allows any complaints to be lodged with the com-
mission within six months, and any further division of holdings is subject
to authorization by the commission.
The Problem of Collective Land
8.        Though collective tenure in Morocco is thought to hinder agricultural
development collection of basic information through a survey is necessary to
determine the extent to which this is universally applicable. Redistribution
of land among families in a collective, where it occurs can, with an expanding
population lead to increased fragmentation and reduced size of farming units.
The prohibition on sale of collective land effectively prevents amalgamation
of uneconomic farming units. On the other hand, the collectivity can itself
form the basis for cooperative ventures which can, in turn, largely overcome
fragmentation. In the project area, the only significant difference between
small freehold and collective tenure is the right of sale. Legal provisions
for access to credit and other facilities are effectively the same.
9.        The Agricultural Investment Code provides for the replacement of
collective tenure by joint or individual freehold ownership in irrigated zones.
In the case of transformation into individual ownership, beneficiaries are
obliged to join standard cooperatives. Inheritance is restricted to a single
heir.
10.       In irrigated zones, collectivists have been prepared to give up their
existing rights and inheritance customs in return for a holding provided with
irrigation water. In rainfed areas, however, this incentive would be absent.
The Meknes Project would be the first attempt by Government to undertake
development of rainfed collective land for which it proposes to use a law of
April 27, 1919 concerning Government control of collectives and regulation of
management and transfer of tribal collective lands. This law permits these
lands to be divided into individual lots, the usufruct right of which would
be given in perpetuity. Furthermore a vizierial order of August 14, 1945
regulating the management of tribal collective lands which have been so
divided will be applied to prevent fragmentation except in the case where
division between heirs would create new holdings meeting viability criteria.
Land Tenure in the Project Area
11.       The Beni Mtir tribe has historically resisted subjugation by the
central government and before the French Protectorate its territory extended
over about 150,000 ha closely coinciding with the project area. About 50,000
ha, half of which was cultivated, was located on the plains. Within the



ANNEX 1
Page 5
tribe, separate clans were sub-divided into camp groups each of which
controlled summer and winter territories between which they migrated. The
individual rights of families to the areas they cultivated were recognized
but summer grazing land was used communally.  The system helped to ensure
the unity of the tribe in a politically unstable situation of continuous
warfare to safeguard the land area essential for the security and continued
pastoral economy of the tribe. In such a situation, land was plentiful and
individual ownership or control was not of significance.
12.       The twentieth century began with the arrival of the French who
started buying land in the most fertile areas such as the plains. Such sale
of land to foreigners was at first illegal and the Protectorate Government
was concerned at the prospect of extensive dislocation of the traditional
rural way of life and the dispossession of the population. After the First
World War a large influx of French immigrants occurred. The French Protecto-
rate Government endeavoured to legalize the sale of the tribal collective
lands to foreign settlers and simultaneously establish control over such sales
by the law of 1919 giving the State trusteeship of the lands. Under the law
however it was permissible to expropriate collective land for public use and
the usufruct right of part of the collective land in the Meknes area was so
expropriated and given to foreign settlers. At the same time about 20,000 ha
of collective was reclassified as guich which was then reclaimed by the
State and distributed as official settlement.
13.       In 1921 the Government authorized the division and registration as
private freehold (melk) of the best agricultural lands on the Meknes plain
which were thus made available for private purchase by French settlers who, by
1924, had acquired about 30,000 ha. In 1928 19,000 ha of cultivated collective
land which remained was surveyed, specific tribal use rights recognised
("delimited") by a Ministerial Order, and subsequently divided between house-
holds who were given provisional titles. Other collective grazing lands which
were from time to time cultivated were also divided. These lands were mainly
located on the poorer soils of the Causse.
14.       Data on the existing land tenure situation were obtained from the
Meknes Provincial Office of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the
Interior in Rabat and its local officials in Meknes Province, the Forestry
directorate and the Land-Registry as well as the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
Project Preparation Report. Frequently there was conflict between data from
different sources so that the figures in Table 1 are not precise and are based
on the judgement of the appraisal mission where it was necessary to resolve
conflicting figures. The existing situation of fragmentation, co-ownership,
rent, share-cropping, etc., makes statistical compilation very difficult.
The data presented in the table are, however, adequate to indicate the overall
present tenure situation.
15.       The project area comprises about 170,000 ha.  Estimates based on
the available data indicate that there are 28,250 ha of Public State Land,
and 9,950 ha of non agricultural Private State Land, largely in the military



ANNEX 1
Page 6
training area. Of the remaining 130,000 ha estimated to be available for
agriculture the present occupation is as follows:
(ha)
Private freehold                         47,870
Cooperatives                              9,340
Tribal Collective Land                   37,300
Private State Land                       34,600
Charitable Trust Land                     2,650
16.       Of the Moroccan owned private freehold, 44,750 ha is in holdings
larger than 5 ha, averaging 31 ha and about 200 owners each have holdings
over 50 ha, averaging 136 ha and together occupy 27,300 ha or 25% of the
total cultivated area. The size distribution of freehold holdings in the
project area is shown in Table 2. About 3,150 ha of private freehold land
is in holdings of less than 5 ha, averaging about 2 ha. Occupants of these
holdings would, if they wished, benefit under the land redistribution program
and it is anticipated that about 1,165 (75%) would do so. The remainder, most
of whom own irrigated holdings under intensive cultivation, are expected to
refrain from participation which would entail exchanging their existing
holdings for a predominantly rainfed holding on a cooperative. Beneficiaries
of land must give up their holdings to the State which can then use such land
in redistribution and formation of cooperatives,
17.       There are presently 775 holdings on newly established cooperatives.
These were distributed on the basis of the income criteria described in
para 4 and average 12 ha each. The holdings have shown wide variation in
productivity with a corresponding wide range in actual farm incomes which, in
view of the uniform crop husbandry practices, cannot entirely be due to
variation between farmers' ability and industry. It is evident that an
equitable holding distribution must depend on improving the present standard
of land capability classification and the services of a Land Capability
Classification Consultant would be provided under the project to meet this
need (see Annex 5).
18.       Of the collective land, about half (19,170 ha) is delimited and
mostly cropped either regularly or on an occasional basis. The remainder
comprises poor grazing and waste land in the Dir and Tizguit Districts. There
are estimated to be about 4,200 families (about 50% of farmers) with rights
to collective land and in the Dir and Tizguit districts families have rights
to both cropped and grazing land. The average size of individual shares in
collectives is about 5 ha (cultivated) and the collective right holders,
because their lands are located on the least fertile land, are among the
poorest of the area farmers. In the Districts of Sebaa Aioun and Ain Taoujdat,
collective holdings on land of generally below average fertility average 10
and 8 ha respectively. This enables creation of viable holdings under land
reform with a minimum of disturbance and movement of families away from their
present community. In Dir and Tizguit, however, more disruption will be
necessary because land fertility is even lower than in the other districts,
making still larger holdings desirable to generate adequate family incomes.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Transfer of a proportion of the families from collectives on the plateau to
new holdings on the mare fertile plain would greatly improve the living
standards both of themselves and those who remain on their present lands.
19.       Private State Land, totalling 7,000 ha, is presently used by col-
lectives though the extent to which it is cultivated is uncertain. It is
located mainly in the Causse and is assumed to remain in its present use.
Other Private State Land, totalling 27,600, was taken over as a result of
the expropriation laws of 1963 and 1973. About 3,050 ha is unused, pre-
sumably because of low fertility and as such has been excluded as not po-
tentially cultivable. Ownership of an area of 5,500 ha is being disputed
by 30 Moroccans who claim they legally acquired it prior to expropriation.
While the decision in the courts cannot be anticipated it has been assumed
for estimation purposes that these claims will be justified and the area has
been considered as private freehold in projecting the future tenure situation,
The remaining 19,050 ha of which about 3,900 ha is in orchards would be
available for distribution under the project. As the Government has taken
no decision about the future of the 2,650 ha of Charitable Trust Land in the
project area, this land has not been considered available for distribution.
Land Reform in the Project Area
20.       The operation of land consolidation and land redistribution would
be undertaken according to established Moroccan practice but the procedures
-would be combined. Existing cooperatives, state farms, forest areas and most
of the larger private freehold holdings would be left untouched.
21.       Land consolidation would be undertaken as far as possible throughout
the remaining area. Following declaration of a specific area as an area of
consolidation by Ministerial Order a consolidation commission is established,
responsible for supervising the operation and plays a direct role in resolving
social and political disputes which may arise. The commission is composed of
representatives of all parties concerned, notably the Land Registry of the
Ministry of Agriculture's Development Directorate, the Provincial and Local
Authorities, the Ministry of Public Works and Communications, the Chamber of
Agriculture, farmers, magistrates and the Topographic Service. The Provincial
Governor is chairman.
22.       Land redistribution is expected to affect 28,700 ha comprising



ANNEX 1
Page 8
(ha)
Private State Land under annual crops                    15,150
Private State Plantations                                 3,900
Existing private freehold holdings                        2,350
(ceded to the State by beneficiaries of land reform)
Cultivated collective                                     7,300
(vacated by beneficiaries of land reform)
It is intended that this land other than that in collective use, be pooled and
divided to provide new holdings for freeholders with less than 5 ha, candi-
dates who now occupy collective land, and landless agricultural workers now
employed by SODEA, SOGETA and others who are unemployed or will become so when
the Private State Lands are distributed. Selection of beneficiaries would be
based on the existing points system but farmers of small holdings, both free-
hold and collectively owned, would be encouraged to participate. Existing
freehold holdings of participants would be contributed to the pool of land
available for redistribution. Decongestion of collective lands would, at the
same time, enable remaining cultivators to each farm a more viable unit. The
requirement for beneficiaries of land distribution to join a cooperative would
greatly facilitate the establishment of an effective agricultural extension
service with long-term benefits in the form of increased productivity. Volun-
tary establishment of similar cooperatives on collectives lands would be
encouraged for the same reason.
23.       Government's present family income standards for determining the
size of holdings to be distributed under the land reform program are DH 4,000
in the first year of resettlement rising to DH 10,000 at maturity about 10
years later. The estimated minimum income required for an average-sized
rural family for subsistence is DR 2,700.  An income of DH 4,000 does not
appear unreasonable while at the same time providing an incentive to newly
settled families.  In order to ensure such an income, for reasonably in-
dustrious farm families, various alternative cropping systems and holding
sizes were examined with the objective of providing a potential net income
of above DH 6,000 in the first year, assuming average crop yields. The
holding sizes were based on average land productivity for the areas ta be
redistributed and actual holdings would vary depending on the actual
fertility of the land as assessed by soil survey.
24.       Three kinds of cooperatives are proposed which would permit optimum
utilisation of the available rainfed and irrigated areas together with the
existing orchards which would be worked communally. These cooperatives would
comprise:



ANNEX 1
Page 9
(a)  Standard cooperatives on which each holding would consist of
both rainfed and irrigated lands. The average holding would
be 7.5 ha (6 ha rainfed and 1.5 ha irrigated);
(b)  Mixed cooperatives on which each holding would consist of
rainfed land (average 3 ha) with the members having equal
shares (average 1 ha) in an orchard; and
(c)  Production cooperatives, the members of which would comprise
previously landless agricultural workers. Each member would
have an equal share (average 1 ha) in the cooperative's orchard.
Each beneficiary would besides his holding and/or share in communally worked
orchards receive a 0.25 ha house and garden lot.
25.       Though the members of standard and mixed cooperatives((a) and (b)
above) could in the future appreciably improve their family incomes by
planting tree crops on their rainfed land, or intensifying production by other
means, it is not certain that they will do so. Furthermore introduction of
more advanced production technology as a second phase of holding development
would require a continued high level of extension service inputs which could
otherwise be used to greater marginal benefit elsewhere in Morocco. Therefore,
while the ultimate potential of holdings could be in excess of DH 10,000 per
year, it was assumed for estimation purposes that initial cropping patterns
would remain largely unchanged and that increases in future income would be
derived only from improved crop husbandry. On this basis the potential year
1 and maturity net incomes were estimated to be:
Year 1       Year 10
-__---- (DH) -------
(a)  Standard cooperatives           6,570         8,550
(b)  Mixed cooperatives              6,720         7,180
(c)  Production cooperatives         6,230         6,210
Implementation of the Land Reform Program
26.       A committee similar to that for land consolidation will be
responsible for supervision to the land redistribution operation.   The two
operations of consolidation and redistribution can be integrated though the
procedures to be followed will need to be set down for guidance of contractors.
Following the establishment of the committees the land reform operation will
proceed as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 10
(a) Aerial photographs at a scale of 1:12,500 would be used
as the basis for a cadastral survey to establish and
map the existing tenure situation for all holdings.
(b) A soil survey would be undertaken and soil and land capability
maps prepared at a scale of 1:5,000 for all land which would
be involved in the land consolidation and redistribution
programs.
(c) Families to benefit under the land reform program will be
selected from applicants on the basis of the points system
already in use.
(d) A plan will be prepared for DMVA by the contractors showing
the location of the new holdings to be distributed under
land reform and their organisation into cooperative units.
(e) The lands involved in the redistribution and consolidation
programs would be taken over.
(f) The families would be given their new holdings.
(g)  Af ter a six month interval to allow for examination of
complaints, adjustments would be made as necessary.
(h) The new land tenure situation would be conflrmed by Decree
and new titles would be issued by the Lands Office.
The size of individual holdings to be distributed under the land redistribu-
tion program would be determined on the basis of estimated land productivity
and resulting net family income. The ratio between irrigated land, rainfed
land and orchards in any particular location is unlikely to be such as would
permit the establishment of new cooperative holdings with the precise propor-
tion of rainfed, and irrigated or orchard land described above. Variation in
soil fertility between individual holdings will also be taken into account in
determining holding size. However, if the average soil productivity over the
project area as a whole has been correctly estimated, the total number of new
holdings should be about 6,000 even though the composition of the individual
holdings may vary widely.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRILCULTURE JEVELOF'ENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Pessent and Future Lord Terure erd Lond Use wtth the Fro.jee
Pessent                                                                 Future
Kind ut Terrer                                Source                            Agriculture                                    Area                         Heldings                             Ar-a                                 Holdirgs
Rainfed      Irrigatod   Oroharde          Total                       Rainfed      Ircigated    Orchards            Trtal
---------------( ha )----------------                  -(No)          ----------------------  h  )------------------             -(No)-
Frivete Freehold (orer 5 he)             Existing                                       Treditiocel        14,680          3,100          -          17,780          1,245        14,180          3,600            -           17,780           1,245
Existing                                       Moden              22,800          1,300       2,850         26,950            195        22,800          1,300          2,850         26,950              195
Preseetly dispotrd expropriteed
ho-diega                                     Moder-               -4570                                                                                  480            450          5,500              30
37,480         4,400       2,850          44,730         1,430         41,550          5,380         3,300          50,230           1,4l 0
Privote FroehoId (cadet 5 ha)            Exiiting                                       Traditioral         2Q750            400          -           3,15o          1,565            400           400            -               800            400
C..perativre                       (a)  Eaisting Lard Reform Croperativos              Mbod-e               8,900            190         250           9,340           775          &,900            190           250           9,340             775
(b) Ne  Sttadard eed niod
Cooperativ-e                                 Modern                -              -            -               -            -          13,450          2,780          1,250         17,480
(r)  Nec Frodoriron Coopeoraves                     MIodern                -             -            -               -            -             -               -           2,650           2,650        ( 6,000
(d)  Pravisio- for boure lots                       Moden                  -             _            _               _            _             _               _             _             1,270
(e) Nec Volrntery Cooperatives or
Collertlve lard                              roder                 -----                                                                                 -           __7300__
8,900           190          250          9,340            775        22,350          2,970         4,150          38,040           7,725
Collectives                              Eisicnig delimiSted collectiveomost1y                                                                               /1
cropped draditioral                                                -             _                        19,170 - L
Existing on-delimited grazing ard                                                                                           4,205                          -              _           30,000            1,540
woasteland                                        -                               -            -      ~        Q 18     -30    )  _                      -              -         (1
37,300         4,205                                                      30,000           1,540
Pri-vc. State  Lard                     ESprupri.trd fatme                              bNoder-            17,540          2,660       4,350         27,600 -          -              -              -                           3,050
Occopied by rollectives (gtaring)                   -                               -            -            7,oo-                                                                     7,000 -
other arr agrirulturel lard                         -                 -             -            -           9.950                                    _ -   -             -             9.950
44,550                                                                    20 000
Public Stote Lord                                                                                              -             -            -          28,250                                                                     28.20 
Habous                                                                                                         _             _            _            2,650            -             -              -             -             2,650
Totaçl                                                                                                                                            16,7                                                                      169,970
/1  ItclSdes 1,100 ha irrigated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tO3
/2   tecludes 3,050 ha uused lord.
Source:   Missi-in ctimate hased or data obtoi-ed from Ministry of Agriculture's tick-es Prouctl  Servic-e, MeNistîy of Int-rior in Mekoe,, tli  nirc-toratc uf totyrer, tbe Lord Regoitru, cod thi  FAO/000D Co/urBrRiD
Progre 's porparott, report.17
Maey 1975



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
/1
Size Distribution for Existing Freehold Land Holdings in the Project Area
Plain
Sbaa Aîoun              Ain Taoujdat                   Dir                               Total
Class                 Area        Holdings       Area       Holdings      'Area       Holdings          Area                     eoldings
(ha)                 (ha)          (No)         (ha)         (No)         (ha)         (No)         (ha)     (I)            (No)         (%)
Under 2                     550          550           325         325            20          20           895       2            895          34
2 ' 5                   1,050           300           875         250            80          20        2,005       5             570          21
5 - 10                  1,305           170         2,330         300           190          21         3,825       9            491          18
10 - 50                  3,480           200        5,125          265         1,105          55         9,710     22             520          20
Over 50                  8,000            44         8,900          55        10,050          95        26,950      62            194           7
Total                 14,385         1,264       17,555       1,195         11,445         211       43,385    0oo            2,670         100
Mean                     11.4         -             14.7        -             54.2         -           16.2      -              -
_.auss , pProlGct Arma
Dir                       Tizguit                       Total
Area        Xoldings       Area       Holdings       _    rea       Holdings                    Area          Holdings
((ha)          (No)          a)         (No)          (ha)     /)                            (ha)    (%)        No s
Under 2                      40           40             0           0            40       1     40      12              935      2        935   31
-, 5                      210           60             0           0           210      5      60      18            2,215      5        630   21
5 - 10                     500           65            75          10           575      13     75      23            4,400      9       566   19
10 - 50                   1,650           75         1,660          70         3,310     73    145       45           13,020    27         665   22
Over 50                       0            0           350           6           350       8      6       2           27,300    57         200    7
Total                  2.400           240        2 085           86        4,485    100    326    100              47,870   100      2,996  100
Mean                     10.0           -           24.2          -           13.8      -      -       -              16.0    -          -     -
/L   Excluding 775 holdings established on Land Reform Cooperatives and averaging 12 ha each.
Source:  Mission estimate based on data obtained from Ministry of Agriculture's Provincial Office, Ministry of the Interior in Meknes, the
Directorate of Forestry, the Land Registry and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program's preparation report.
May 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Agriculture and Livestock Production
General
1.        Large Moroccan owned holdings located on the more fertile parts
of the plains have in many cases been bought from previous foreign owners.
These farms are cultivated using modern methods as are those ex foreign owned
lands now managed by SODEA and SOGETA which also occupy fertile land. Other
large Moroccan farmis and many smaller Moroccan owned holdings are located on
poorer soils and are cropped using traditional cultivation methods. The
poorest, shallow, and stony soils now under traditional cultivation are pre-
dominantly under collective ownership. The individual cultivators have
recognized and permanent rights to cultivate a particular piece of land.
Present Agriculture
2.        Under the traditional farming system a cereal crop is grown every
second winter. This is commonly durum wheat though some barley is grown on
the poorest soils of the Causse. This cereal crop alternates either with a
weed fallow which provides grazing for livestock, or else a legume, usually
broad beans or chick peas. Land preparation by animal traction is minimal
and little use is made of fertilizers or improved seeds. Where winter forage
is in short supply, livestock may graze the wheat before spring growth begins.
Weeds, particularly wild oats in the cereal crop, contribute to low yields
by competing for limited soil moisture reserves in the late spring.
3.        Modern farmers practise a two-year rotation, both durum and bread
wheats usually alternating with either chick peas or garden peas for canning.
Sunflower is being introduced on the larger farms but losses from birds are a
problem. Land preparation and subsequent cultivations are extensively
mechanized. Fertilizers are used, especially for the cereals. Weeds remain
a problem though some success is being achieved through use of Suffix 20 for
control of wild oats on a limited scale.
4.        Livestock production is mainly confined to the traditional farms
where a forage crop, usually vetch oats but sometimes barley or a local forage
legume called Pois de Sefrou are grown instead of chick peas in the rota-
tion. The few large farmers with cattle are selling their herds because of
high labor costs. About half the farmers in the project area own cattle and
about 25% have sheep. In addition, landless families graze small flocks on
communal pastures and any other sources of feed available.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The local cattle breed, Brown Atlas, is small and has a low milk
yield but is well adapted to local conditions and produces successful crosses
with imported Tarentaise and Friesian.
6.        At Sidi Aissa a Government Sheep Farm of about 300 ha has a flock
of selected Timhadite sheep and has developed an area of improved pasture.
It undertakes demonstrations of good sheep management and distributes selected
rams.
7.        The COMAGRI farm at Hadj Kaddour, besides seed production, has a
breeding herd of about 300 Tarentaise cattle, producing stock for sale to
farmers.
8.        A milk processing plant at Meknes is also managed by COMAGRI but is
operating at only about one-third capacity for a single shift. A cooperative
is being formed to take over its management.
Agricultural Development Under the Project
9.        The farmers benefiting under the project's land redistribution
program would be required to join either a standard, mixed or production
cooperative. The cooperatives would follow a controlled three-year cropping
pattern for rainfed crops comprising hard wheat and bread wheat in consecutive
years and an optional third year crop excluding cereals. Legumes are expected
to predominate in the optional break in the rotation.
10.       Both on the cooperatives and on privately owned farms the agri-
cultural extension service will promote chemical control of wild oats in the
cereal crops. The technique has been tested locally and credit would be
available fron the existing sources, CNCA and CLCA, to finance the operation.
i1.       Specific provision has not been made under the project for expanded
livestock production. The possibility of developing livestock enterprises on
newly established cooperatives was examined but both milk production and beef
fattening are unattractive under the prevailing price system. However, there
would be no objection to any farmer planting a forage crop such as vetch/oats
or a combination of forage and legumes in the optional crop year. One hectare
of vetch/oats together with crop residues and some purchased concentrates
would support a draft mule and two milking cows with their calves up to the
age of three months. Such a dairy operation under good management would
produce up to 3,000 kg milk for sale each year and the net cash income would
be about DH 430/ha (Table 1). If the same feed resources were used to rear
and fatten beef animals the output each year would be either two bulls reared
from calves and fattened for sale at 27 months, or four bulls fattened for
about three months each. These beef operations would generate net cash
incomes of about DH 200/ha (Table 2). These incomes are lower than those
which could be achieved by growing a legume crop instead of the vetch/oats.
The labor input for the livestock operation, moreover, would be much higher and



ANNEX 2
Page 3
for this reason it is unlikely that farmers would undertake such a livestock
enterprise in any appreciable numbers, especially as few farmers and farm
workers in the area have any previous experience of modern methods of live-
stock production. The lack of available grazing in the plains and the very
low carrying capacity of available hill grazing make sheep equally unattrac-
tive. The rocky nature of the uncultivated terrain and collective grazing
rights complicate any extensive hill pasture improvement being undertaken.
12.       Where limited supplies of irrigation water are available, farmers in
a cooperative would have equal shares of the area under irrigation. While
there would usually be no strict control of the cropping pattern in such areas,
farmers would be encouraged to standardize production to facilitate cultivation,
irrigation and marketing.
13.       Where suitable areas of plantations exist, presently managed by
SODEA, these would be transferred to cooperative ownership, with the exist-
ing management continuing to provide assistance to the cooperatives until
they are themselves capable of undertaking management of their plantations.
The plantations so transferred would be managed as a single unit and members
of the production cooperative who work on the plantation area would be paid a
daily wage.  At the end of each financial year, the profits resulting from the
operation of the plantation would be shared among cooperative members, part
in proportion to the individual work inputs and part shared equally among
all members of the cooperative. A fixed amount would be set aside annually
by the cooperative to provide working capital and an amount, dependent on the
current year's income, would be paid against the assessed purchase price of
the orchard. Where no suitable plantation exists which may be transferred to
a newly established cooperative, but where conditions are suitable for the
establishment of tree crop plantations or vines, the members of cooperatives
would be permitted to establish plantations or vineyards either individually
or on a collective basis.
14.       In all cooperatives the farmers would each receive a house lot of
0.25 ha on which they may cultivate vegetables and fruits for their family
needs.
Present and Future Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
15.       The present and future cropped areas and their cropping intensities
are estimated to be:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Present and Future                 Future
Without Project                 With Project
Area     Cropping Intensity   Area   Cropping Intensity
(thousand ha)        (M)       {thousand ha)      (M)
Traditional Rainfed    36.10               60            19.10           55
Modern Rainfed          49.20              82            65.10           89
Total Rainfed      85.30             73            84.20           81
Irrigated                8.75            145             9.85           145
Total Annual       94.00             79            94.00           88
Orchards and Vineyards  7.45              100             7.45          100
Total Cropped
Area            100.50             81           101.50           89
16.       Estimated present and future, with and without project crop yields
for the major crops in the rotations, are shown in Table 3. Total areas,
average yields and total production for each of the crops are shown in Table
4.
May 1975.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Estimated Income from Dairying
Assumption:   Two cows are kept on forage produced by 1 ha of vetch/oats plus
concentrates and supplements. They produce 3,000 1 milk per
year net of household and calf-feeding requirements.
Returns:                                                   (DH)
3,000 1 mflk @ DH 0.9/1                    2,700
2 calves per year and cows culled
after 5 years for meat                 1 000
3,700
Costs:
Growing and harvesting 1 ha vetch/oats       525
Concentrates plus mineral supplements    1,100
Breeding Fees                                105
Veterinary costs                             200
Annual replacement costs for stack
and buildings                              970
Interest                                     370
3,270
Annual net cash income (using family labor):             DH 430/ha
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Estimated Income from Beef Fattening
Assumptions:   Two ha of vetch/oats plus concentrates would fatten over a
period of 15 months two bulls bought at 12 months old and
two bulls bought at 2h months old. Animals would be sold
at 27 months averaging 500 kg each.
Returns:                                                              (DH)
Sale of h bulls @ DH 3.5/kg                          7,000
Costs:         Growing and harvesting 2 ha vetch/oats                1,050
Concentrates                                         1,175
Veterinary expenses                                     50
Replacement a of stock and buildings and
interest                                           h ,325
6,600
Annual net cash income (using family labor):                       DH 200/ha
l A low cost for purchase of bulls for fattening was assumed as DH 600
for 12-month old and DH 1,hOO for 2h-xnonth old animals. If costs were
DH h00 higher in each case, the farmer wouJd make a loss even if a mark-
et price of DH h/kg is assumed for fattened animals.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Estimated Yields for Major Crops
Future
Present            Without Project                    With Project
(ton/ha)                 Cooperatives              Others
----------------------------------- (ton/ha)---------------------------
Rainfed Rotations
Causse (Traditional)
Durun wheat                         0.6                     0.6                                             o.6
Plain(Traditional)
Durum wheat                         1.0                     1.2                                             1.2
Legumes                             o.6                     0.75                                            0.75
Plain(Modern)                                                                              /1
Durum wheat                         1.8                     2.30                     2.0                    2.30
Bread wheat                         2.0                     2.60                     2.2                    2.60
Legumes                             1.0                     l.oo                     1.0                    1.00
Sunflower                           1.0                     l.oo                     1.0                    1.00
Irrigated (Betit)
Durum wheat                         3.0                     2 60/2                   3.0
3.o               2. 6 O700/              20.0 
Late Potatoes                      20.0                    1 7o7/2                  20.0
Winter Vegetables                  10.0                     8. 5 0                  lo.o
Summer Vegetables                  20.0                    17.002                  20.0
Onions                             25.0                    21.00                    25.0
Tobacco                             1.0                     1 00/2                   1.0
Alfalfa                            50.0                    42.00-                   50.0
Irrigated (Other)
Durum wheat                         3.0                     4.00                     4.0                    4.00
Late potatoes                      20.0                    20.00                    20.0                   25.00
Winter vegetables                  10.0                    10.00                    10.0                   12.00
Sunimer vegetables                 20.0                    20.00                    20.0                   30.00
Onions                             25.0                    25.oo                    25.0                   30.00
Tobacco                             1.0                     L.OO                     1.0                    L.O
Alfalfa                            50.0                    50.oo                    50.0                   70.00
Irrigated Plantations
Apple orchards                     20.0                    20.00                    30.0
Rainfed Plantations
Grapes                              7.0                     7.0o                                            7.00
/l Cooperatives' average yields lower than present modern due to inclusion of less fertile land in devel-
opment of future cooperatives.
/2  Projected declining yields in without project situation reflects worsening drainage in Betit irrigation
area. 
Source:  Data obtained from FAO/IB?D Cooperative Program Preparation Report, from MARA and from Mission estimates.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Total Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Present                                   1985 Without Project                               1985 With Project
Crop                   Area          Yield        Production           Area           Yield       Production            Area           Yield        Production
(ha)       (tons/ha)        (tons)              (ha)       (tons/ha)         (tons)               (ha)       (tons/ha)        (tons)
Durum wheat                  35,145        1.50           51,850              35,145        1.75           62,100              33,715        2.00            67,650
Bread Wheat                  13,040        1.90           24,710              13,040        2.50           32,120              19,325        2.38           46,095
Legtumes                     13,565        0.88           12,015              13,565        0.93           12,630              13,080        0.98            12,815
Sunflower                     4,540        1.00            4,540               4,540        1.00            4,540               7,245        1.00             7,245
Late Potatoes                 1,320       20.00           26,400               1,320       18.93           25,009               1,480       22.68            32,775
Winter Vegetables             2,630       10.00           26,300               2,630        9.46           24,900               2,960       11.10            32,205
Summer Vegetables             2,630       20.00           52,600               2,630       18.93           49,800               2,960       24.05           69,750
Onions                        1,320       24.99           32,990               1,320       23.58           31,130               1,480       25.76            40,195
Tobacco                          90        1.00                90                 90        1.00                90                140        1.00               140
Alfalfa                         300       50.00           15,000                 300       47.60           14,280                 300       57.58            17,850
Orchards                      4,150       20.00           83,000               4,150       20.00           83,000               4,150       30.00          125,,000
Vineyards and
olive groves                3,300        7.00           23,000               3,300        7.00           23,000               3,300        7.00            23,000    _
/   See paragraph 6.02 for declining yields for irrigated crops in future without project.
Source: Mission estimate based on data obtained from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program Preparation Report and present crop rotations practised in
the project area together with yield data from Table 3.
May 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Cooperatives and Credit
1.        As a condition of benefitting from land distribution under the
Agrarian Reform Law recipients are required to join a cooperative established
on a block of contiguous land reform lots. Such cooperatives are governed
by a law of December 29, 1972, standard articles of agreement and by-laws.
The objectives of these cooperatives are:
(a) to facilitate the role of the agencies charged with agricul-
tural development and to ensure that land distribution benefi-
ciaries fulfill their obligations, notably following a speci-
fied cropping pattern and cultivation practices;
(b) to develop, where applicable, a distribution system for irri-
gation water;
(c) to facilitate all farming operations, notably by creating a
farm machinery unit;
(d) to develop a centralized marketing and supply system for its
members;
(e)  to act as intermediary in supplying both seasonal and invest-
ment credit;
(f)  to collect from its members any and all taxes and charges for
services; and
(g) to manage the collectively-held land of the cooperative, in
the case of production cooperatives and mixed cooperatives
(see para 4).
2.        Typical by-laws stipulate in detail the obligations of members
including:
(a) to follow the cropping pattern prepared by DMVA and accepted
by the cooperative;
(b) to make full use of the cooperative's machinery services
where these are provided;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) to market all produce and livestock products through the
cooperative; and
(d) to utilize the central supply services of the cooperative.
3.        The most common type of land reform cooperative is one where each
members owns his land. The land of such a standard cooperative is divided in
a grid pattern. Each member receives a strip of land and a series of plots
running perpendicularly to the ownership strips is each planted to a differ-
ent crop in rotation. This permits certain operations to be performed col-
lectively and by machine over the area under a specific crop. Other opera-
tions such as weeding and harvesting may remain to be done by the individual
owner. One plot, representing a block in each individual owner's strip, is
"free" land, i.e. remains outside the compulsory rotation. Each member of
the cooperative can use this plot as he wishes, providing an opportunity for
planting trees, growing market vegetables, etc.
4.        In addition to standard cooperatives, two other types exist:  pro-
duction cooperatives and mixed cooperatives. In the production cooperative
land is held in equal joint ownership by the members, who operate the land
collectively. Mixed cooperatives combine features of both standard and pro-
duction cooperatives. Depending on the nature of the cooperative's land,
members would either manage some land individually and some collectively, or
some members would only have individual plots while others would collectively
own all of their land.
5.        At present, net income of production cooperatives and of the col-
lectively-owned part of mixed cooperatives is distributed as follows:
(a) 40% goes to members in advance wage payments and end-of-season
bonuses on the basis of number of days worked by individual
members;
(b) 20% is shared equally by all members; and
(c) 40% goes into the cooperative's funds.
6.        Under the project a modified system may have to be considered for
the distribution of net returns of apple orchards in production and mixed
cooperatives. In anticipation of a major future decline in the present high
price of apples, introduction of a variable levy linked to apply prices would
have the effect of establishing incomes. The levy would be determined by the
difference between the current price and the expected equilibrium price assumed
to be the current international price for which apples are traded in that region.
This levy would permit an accelerated schedule of land payments. Any balance
of the stabilization levy over land payments could be used by the cooperative
to help meet its capital requirements. Government has agreed to take appro-
priate measures to regulate farmers' incomes in the event of a major decline
in apple prices.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        Production cooperatives are particularly suited for the management
of large orchards, where subdivision would cause major technical and managerial
problems and where the members of the cooperative are receptive to the work
and remuneration arrangements. Under the project these cooperatives would
be established on a portion of the large apple orchards which are currently
managed by SODEA. These cooperatives would appear to lend themselves par-
ticularly to settlement by landless laborers, who would be more amenable to
this tenure arrangement than others who have previous experience in farm
management.
8.        Under the project, cooperatives would be grouped in order to reduce
the costs of management and essential infrastructure such as access roads and
water supply. An average of 4 cooperatives would constitute an optimal rural
center, grouping some 160 farm families or about 800-1,000 individuals plus
additional persons engaged in providing ancillary rural services.
9.        Currently MARA appoints a Manager for each or a group of coopera-
tives. His job is to provide technical assistance, explain MARA's technical
recommendations (including the cropping pattern) to the cooperative's member-
ship in order to have it accepted, keep the accounts, assist the cooperative
in formulating its credit needs and channel them to CNCA, and generally help
the President of the Cooperative Council to manage the farm. With the group-
ing of cooperatives, as planned under the project, one Manager would serve
a rural center comprising 4 cooperatives. He would be aassisted by one Agri-
cultural Agent and one Clerk (Chart 9653).
10.       The articles of agreement permit a cooperative to provide services
for its members. For this purpose it can levy operation and maintenance
charges, e.g. for a small irrigation system, water supply and access roads.
If the cooperative cannot with its own means assure adequate maintenance, it
may contract for the work to be undertaken.
11.       A crucial function of the cooperative is to facilitate the flow of
credit to its members. A cooperative submits, through MARA's Division of
Cooperatives, a single request for seasonal credit to CNCA, on the basis of
a cropping plan established with DMVA assistance. CNCA bases its lending
decision on the security provided by the cooperative's financial performance.
In addition to loans for crop production and investment loans made directly
to the cooperative, individual members can apply for credit to finance con-
struction of homes and stables, tree crop plantations and the purchase of
draft animals and implements. However, in all cases the cooperative and DMVA
make a technical assessment of the loan application. This facilitates stand-
ardization and guarantees sound design.
12.       The incremental working capital requirements generated by the
project at full development is estimated at DR 13.1 million (US$3.2 million)
with a foreign exchange component of DH 8.0 million (US$1.9 million).
May 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Project Works
Aerial photography
1.        Existing air photographs of the project area from various sources
may not reflect the existing situation, particularly with reference to pro-
perty boundaries, the identification of which will be essential for land
reform.  Provision has been made for new controlled air photography at a
scale of 1:12,500 to be flown. This scale will be adequate both for prepara-
tion of topographic and cadastral maps and for use in the soil survey. As
subsequent ground surveys, under the project, will be dependent on the avail-
ability of the air photographs and maps, it is essential the photography be
flown as soon as possible, at least the Sebaa Aioun district, by the end of
1975 and the remainder of the project area early in 1976. Allowing for the
irregular boundaries of the project area, it is estimated that photographing
200,000 ha will be needed to completely cover the project area.
Surveys, mapping and preparation of plans for land reform
2.        The soils, topographic, cadastral and socio-economic surveys and
subsequent preparation of plans for land reform will be undertaken by con-
tractors. Contracts for this type of work have been awarded for land con-
solidation and redistribution already undertaken in the project area and
elsewhere and the existing standards required in the documents are in general
adequate. However, the existing wide variation between holdings recently
allocated under land reform in terms of agricultural production and the net
income generated gives rise to inequalities between beneficiaries which it
would be desirable to reduce. Provision would be made under the project for
a land capability classification consultant to examine this problem and recom-
mend corrective measures which may necessitate changes in the specifications
for the surveys and planning of new holdings.
3.        The surveys would provide coverage of the entire area of cultiva-
tion in the project and allowing for included non-agricultural lands and for
boundary irregularities are estimated to extend over 135,000 ha. Maps will
be prepared at a scale of 1:5,000.
Destoning
4.        Government has an ongoing program to encourage farmers to remove
stones from land which is otherwise fertile, to permit better tillage and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
thereby increase productivity. The work is normally undertaken by contrac-
tors or is done by the farmers themselves. The former normally use a crawler
tractor equipped with a subsoiler to bring the stones to the surface where
they may be removed by hand labor to the edge of the field or an adjacent
rocky outcrop using a tractor and trailer for transportation except in the
smallest fields.  Several passes with the subsoiler are necessary.  The farm-
ers who undertake the work generally use only hand labor and progress is slow.
The use of a front mounted rock-rake would enable all except the largest
rocks to be lifted and piled in heaps for later removal. Such an implement
for use with a crawler tractor would be provided for experimental purposes
(Table 1).
Access roads
5.        It is estimated that access roads, to link the 160 new cooperatives
to be established under the project with the existing asphalt road network,
will average about 1 km in length. Opening of 6 m wide earth roads is es-
timated to cost about DH 2,200 (US$532)/km including provision for culverts
and pipes. Existing standards for such roads are adequate. Comparative
costs for stabilized earth or gravel roads would be about DH 6,000/km.
Construction and equipment of wells
6.        Each new cooperative would need to be provided with an adequate
supply of potable water for domestic use. This will necessitate construction
and equipment of wells which, besides serving the household needs of the
cooperative members would have spare capacity which would be used for limited
irrigation. It is estimated that about 80 wells would be required. In order
to select optimum locations for the new wells, a survey would be made of
existing wells in the project area and pump tests conducted.
7.        The wells would be constructed and equipped by contractors.  Electric
pumps would be installed when a suitable power line is available nearby. Else-
where diesel pumps would be used. To provide an adequate reserve domestic
water supply for use during repairs and servicing of the equipment, storage
reservoirs would be constructed for the new water supply systems and distri-
bution networks to stand pipes installed.
Storage facilities
8.        Where adequate storage facilities do not already exist for newly
established cooperative groups a standard building providing about 300 m2
of floor space would be constructed.
Rehabilitation and extension of the Betit irrigation system
9.        The existing Betit irrigation system serves about 3,500 ha and is
supplied from a spring. A pipeline diverts 400 1/sec to augment the water



ANNEX 4
Page 3
supply of the city of Meknes and the remainder, about 1,600 1/sec, is avail-
able for irrigation. This is equivalent to about 0.45'l/sec for each hectare
presently under irrigation, though the precise irrigated area and present
cropping pattern are uncertain. The theoretical crop moisture loss due to
evaporation and transpiration during the peak month of July has been esti-
mated to average 3 mm/day and 1 ha planted to a uniform crop, losing moisture
at this rate would require an irrigation supply of 0.55 1/sec assuming an
efficiency factor of 66%. If allowance is made for lower rates of moisture
loss due to variations in type and age of crop and in soil moisture avail-
ability, an average per hectare requirement of 0.4 1/sec over the irrigated
area is not unreasonable.
10.       It is estimated that about 20% of the water now available for irri-
gation is lost from the canal system. The proposed rehabilitation works would
eliminate losses by canal realignment and by lining secondary and tertiary
canals. At the same time, drainage would be improved where local water
logging is beginning to depress crop yields on about 250 ha.
il.       The water which would be saved by reduction of losses from the
canal system is estimated to be about 300 i/sec, enough to irrigate a further
500 ha. Under the project the irrigation system would be extended by this
amount. The location of the extensions has yet to be determined.
12.       Before construction can begin it would be necessary to undertake
surveys of the existing system and possible extension areas, including soil
surveys în the latter. The results would be mapped at a scale of 1:2,000
and would form the basis for engineering design of the improvements and
extensions to be undertaken.
Construction of small irrigation systems
13.       Where the water from wells is in excess of the need for potable
water supply, small irrigation systems would be constructed on the coopera-
tives to utilize the available balance. It is estimated that these systems
will serve a total of about 600 ha and that the withdrawals from the phreatic
aquifer for new irrigation will total about 4.8 million m3 per year or 50,000
m /day in the peak irrigation season. This additional extraction is consi-
dered to be within the capacity of the aquifer. The plans of DRE to increase
its withdrawals from the deep aquifer by construction of five deep wells at
Hadj Kaddour is not expected to affect water availability from the phreatic
aquifer.
14.       The works would comprise construction of small earth channels with
pipes and culverts where necessary and levelling of the land to be irrigated.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Buildings, equipment and vehicles
15.       The buildings needed for the project administration and extension
services are as follows:
(a) a 600 m2 addition to the existing Meknes SP offices;
(b) a District extension office for Tizguit;
(c) three-room housing for:
(i) 40 agricultural assistants in cooperative groups;
(ii)  8 district extension officers;
and
(d) two-room housing for 80 Agricultural and Clerks in
cooperatives.
The staff housing would be constructed to existing standard designs which
are acceptable.
16.       Furniture and equipment would be provided for the expanded Meknes
SP (Table 1). Audio visual and demonstration equipment for the agricultural
extension service both to cooperatives and to farmers not in cooperatives
would also be provided.
17.       Saloon cars and pickups would be provided for senior agricultural
services staff whose responsibilities would necessitate extensive travel in
the project area. Motorcycles would be provided for cooperative group managers
to facilitate visits to the cooperatives under their control and for the 24
staff of the 4 District extension offices.
May 1975



ANNEX h
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
The Pro,ject
List of Administration and Agricultural Extension Vehicles
and Equipment
Item                    Quantity       Unit Price      Value
-___     (US$)-
1. Saloon cars                        10           2,200         22,000
2.  Pick-ups                           3           6,000         18,000
3.  Motor cycles                      64             500         32,000
4.  Rock rake (front oumting
for D6)                         1            5,000          5,000
5. Miscellaneous office fur-
niture                        lot              -           26,000
6.  Miscellaneous office equip-
ment                          lot              -            7,000
7. Miscellaneous audio-visual
and demonstration equipment  lot               -           30,000
8.  Spare parts for vehicles/-    lot                -           14,000
Total
/ 20% of purchase price.
May 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Terms of Reference for Consultants
A. Land Reform Planning
Objective
1.        The objective would be to improve the uniformity of the income
potential of new holdings distributed under land reform by improving the
collection of soil data and mapping of land productivity as a basis for
determining holding size.
Execution
2.        The problem will be examined by a consultant who will recommend
ways of improving the present practice.
Staffing Requirements
3.        The land capability classification consultant will assist the Meknes
SP in the supervision of contractors who will carry out land reform planning
and implementation. He will examine the existing system of classification
and the available data on incomes of farmers in cooperatives to determine
the reason for the present wide variation from holdings of supposedly uniform
productivity potential. Following this, he will recommend changes and super-
vise the use of the new practices by the contractors. The time required is
estimated to be 36 months.
B. Reconnaissance Study of Collective Lands
Objective
4.        The reconnaissance study would identify the legal, social, and
economic constraints to development of collectively-held lands in Morocco
which involves compilation of an inventory. Taking into account national
policy objectives concerning income distribution, regional development, and
previous experience with development of collective lands, the study would
lead to recommendations for follow-up actions.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Execution
5.        The study would be carried out in the Ministry of Interior by a
team of four specialists consisting of an agricultural economist, an economic
anthropologist, a specialist on Moroccan land law and an agriculturist together
with Moroccan counterparts. The study will consist of documentary investiga-
tion, field work, and report writing, over a period of six months.
6.        The agricultural economist would investigate the present and poten-
tial future contribution to the national economy of areas held under collec-
tive land tenure, paying particular attention to tenure-related factors
which act as constraints to development.  He would also examine family income
levels in these areas and the scope for their improvement. He should have at
least fàge years experience in agricultural development, covering sector
analysis, project identification and farm surveys.  He must also have a
working knowledge of both spoken and written French and preferably of spoken
Moroccan Arabic.
7.        The economic anthropologist would investigate the present collec-
tive land tenure system as practiced throughout Morocco, taking due account
of regional variations, and study the suitability of broad policy measures
and specific project proposals worked out by the team, paying special atten-
tion to social significance of the land tenure system, to the likelihood of
change in the society as a whole, and to the social acceptability of any
development efforts recommended. lie should have experience in agricultural
development of the less developed countries with at least one year field
work, preferably in North Africa. 1le must also have a working knowledge of
both spoken and written French and preferably spoken Moroccan Arabic.
8.        The legal specialist would examine the existing legislation con-
cerning collective lands, provide a legal definition of collective land
tenure, and explore the history of the recognition of collective tenure.
He would join the other team members in the final stage of the study to
analyze the legal feasibility of the team's recommendations.  He should be
a specialist on land law and have a thorough knowledge of the modern and
traditional Moroccan legal systems and a working knowledge of written and
spoken French and written Arabic.
9.        The agriculturist would examine and collect data on the present
crop and livestock production of collective lands throughout Morocco and
assess their development potential. He would participate with the other
team members in the formulation of the team's recommendations. He should
have at least five years experience in agricultural development (covering
crop production, range management and extensive livestock grazing), some
of which should be in North Africa.  He must also have a working knowledge
of spoken and written French and preferably of spoken Moroccan Arabic.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       Either the agricultural economist or the anthropologist will lead
the study team and will be responsible for the coordination of the specialist
contributions. The specialist manpower requirements for the study are es-
timated to be
man/months
Agricultural economist                          6
Economic anthropologist                         6
Legal specialist                                2
Agriculturist                                   4
Total                    18
11.       The total provision for consultant services under the project would
be:
man-months
Land reform planning                           36
Reconnaissance study of collective
lands                                       18
Other short-term consultant needs              12
Total                    66
May 1975.



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RIONGDOM OF MOROCCO
Cost îsiatl,oî
Prolect Elemono                                         Proiect Cool                                                                                                 Expenditure
1975                         1976                          1977                          1978                          1979                         1980
Local   Foreign   Ttal             Locl   Foreloo   Tota        Local   Focig    Total        Loca    Forigo   Total        Loa    F on          tl      local   Forèig    Total       Locl   TOtolo   Total
I.. tend Aefoc
1.  Aeni.1 photogcaphy                         0.07      0.63     0.70            0.03     0.31      0.34      0.04      0.32      0.36
2.  Topographic sarvTy                         0.55      0.56     1.11             -         -        -        0.10      0.11      0.21      0.19      0.19     0.38       0.18      0.18     0.36       0.08     0.06      0.16
3.  Cadastral eorv-y                           0.23      0.23     0.46             -         -        -        0.06      0.06      0.12      0.09      0.09     0.18       0.08     0.08      0.16        -         -        -
4.  Agno-econo  nocy                           0.1       0.16     0.32             -              -             0.04     0.04      0.08      0.05      0.05     0.10       0.05      0.05     0.10       0.02     0.02      0.04
5.  SRil oorve3                                0.41      0.41     0.82             -         -        -        0.08      0.08      0.16      0.15      0.15     0.30       0.14     0.14      0.28       0.04     0.04      0.08
6.  Land ooeolidation ad
eetcle,aoot Flan                         1.01     1.01      2.02            -         -         -        0.05      0.05     0.10       0.21     0.21      0.42      0.32      0.32     0.64       0.32      0.32     0.64       0.11      0.11      0.22
Subtotal                              2.43     3.00      5.43           0.03      0.31     0.34       0.37      0.66     0.03       0.69     0.69      1.38      0.22      0.37       . 54     0.46      0.46     0.92       0.183     0.18      0.36
frite cotiogenclna                         1 28     1 31      2.59            0.02     0.03      0.05      0.11      0.13     0.24       0.31     0.31      0.62       0.46     0.06      0.92       0.31     0.31      0.62      0.07      0.07      0.14
Subtotal                             3.71      4.31      8.02           0.05      0.34      0.39      0.48      0.79     1.27       1.00     1.00      2.00       1.23     1.23     2.46       0.77      0.77      1.54      0.18      0.18     0.36
B.  Destoning                                      0.95      0.75      1.70            -         -        -         3.06     0.04      0.10      0.20      0.16     5.36       0.29      0.24     0.53       0.29      0.24     0.53       0.11      0.07      0.18
înict cootingenctes                        0.59     0.43      1.01             -        _         _        0.02      0.01     0.03       0.09     0.06      3.15       0.17     0.12      0.29      0.24      0.20      0.44      0.06      0.04      0.10
Subtotal                              1.53     1.18      2.71            -         -         -        0.08      0.05     0.13       0.29     0.22      0.51      0.46      0.36     0.82       0.53      0.44     0.97       0.17      0.11      0.28
C.  Cooperatîve Infcattructure
1. Water supply and ama1 tti cgotton
a. Bell testing                            0.04     0.08      0.12             -        -         -         -         -        -         0.04     (.08      0.12        .        -         -          -        -         -         -         -
b. Nec celle                               0.15     0.34      0.49             -        -         -         -         -        -         0.03     0.09      3.12       0.06     0.11      0.17      0.04      0.11      0.15      0.02      0.03      0.05
t. Ptopaett aod sata ponts (207.)          0.03     0.33      0.36             -        -         -         -         -        -         0.01     0.08      0.09      0.01      0.11     0.12       0.01      0.11      0.12       -        0.03      0.03
d, Otoraga tnd dietribatilo tysten         0.95     0.41      1.36             -        -         -         -         -        -         0.25     0.11      3.36      0.30      0.14      0.44      0.30      0.12      0.42      0.10      0.04      0.14
n. Small irrigation on coopecatîves        0.11     0.16      0.27             -        -         -         -         -        -          -         -        -        0.04      0.07      0.11      0.05      0.07      0.12      0.02      0.02      0.04
2.   olîdiînga
Farta etocaga                           0.68     0.46      1.14             -        -         -         -         -                  0.19     0.11      0.30      0.21      0.15     0.36       0.71      0.15     0.36       0.07      0.05      0.12
3.   Ra                                        0.02.02                                                                                                          0.-02      0.       02        0.00       01       0.02      0.03        -       0.01      0.01
SoSatotaS                             1.99     1.85      3.83             -        -         -         -         -        -         0.52     0.49      1.01      0.63      0.60      1.23      0.62      0.58      1.20      0.21      0.18      0.39
Price contin- nnola                       1.21      1.05     2.26                 -         -         -         -             -         0.23     0.21      0.44       0.39     0.35      0.74      0.48      0.38      0.86      0.11      0.11      0.22
sabtota1                             3.19      2.90      6.09                                                                      0.75      0.70      1.45      1.02      0.95     1.97       1.10      0.96     2.06       0.32      0.29     0.61
D.  Belti Irrigation tcheS e
1.  Survt5t                                    0.04      0.03     0.07             -        -         -          -        -         -        0.04      0.03     0.07        -         -        -          -        -         -          -        -         -
2.  Ienloserntg ocaRIna                        0.05      0.02     0.07             -         -        -          -        -         -        0.05     0.02      0.07        -
3.  -oiabilttatlon catit                       1.18      0.80     1.98             -         -        -          -        -         -        0.24     0.16      0.40       0.59     0.40      0.99       0.35     0.24      0.59
4.  DIcooage varik                             0.10      0.12     0.22             -         -        -          -        -         -        0.05      0.06     0.11       0.05     0.06      0.11        -
5.  txtenelon of Irrigation orna               0.28      0.34     0.62             -         -        -              -              -         -         -        -         0.11     0.15      0.26       0.12     0.15      0.27       0.05     0.04      0.09
lobtotal                              1.65     1.31      2.96                                                                      0.38      0.27      0.65      0.75      0.61     1.36       0.47      0.39     0.86       0.05     0.04      0.09
_rite  oetinge          nies             0.96     0.82      1.78                                          -                            0.15     9.11      0.26      0.42      0.38      0.80      0.33      0.29      0.62      0.06      0.04      0.17
S.btotal                             2.61      2.13      4.74            -         -         -         -         -        -        0.53      D.38      0.91       1.17     0.99     2.16       0.80      0.68      1.48      0.11      0.08     0.19
E. Projoot Adminittration
1.  Building:
a. Project offices                         0.06     0.03      0.09             -        -         -        0.03      0.01     0.04       0.03     0.02      0.05       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
b. Etnen:ion  letff ho..ting               1.03     0.55      1.58             -        -         -        0.06      0.04     0.10       0.26     0.13      0.39      0.32      0.17      0.49      0.29      0.15      0.44      0.10      0.06      0.16
2. Equipmxent arR velîclen
a. Office equippment                        -       0.04      0.04             -        -         -         -        0.02     0.02        -        -         -         -        0.02     0.02        -         -         .         -         -         -
b. Eltension equ tipmet                     -       0.04      0.04             -        -         -         -        0.02     0.02        -        -         -                  0.02     0.02
c. lehîinns                                0.01     0.09      0.10             -        -         -        0.01      0.06     0.07        -        -         -         -        0.03      0.03
3.  Local staff salariat                       1.94       -       1.94            0.18       _       0.18       0.18      -       0.18       0.20       -       0.20       0.0       -        0.50      0.50       -        7.50      0.38       -        0.38
lobtotal                             3.04      0.75      3.79           0.18       -       0.18       3.28     0.15      0.43      0.49      0.15     0.64       0.82      0.24     1.06       0.79      0.15     0.94       0.48     0.06      0.54
Prica ootinoenctes                         1.73     0.40      2.13            0.03      -        0.03      0.08      0.04     0.12       0.21     0.06      0.27      0.46      0.10     0.56       0.58      0.10     0.68       0.37      0.10     0.47
Tobtotal                             4.77      1.15      5.9Z           0.01       -       0.21       D.36      0.19     7.55      0.70      3.21     0.91       L.Zd      0.34     1.62       1.37      0.25     1.62       0.85      Q.16      1.01
F.  Cont.ltoot-
1.  Land -efor-                                0.06     0.20      0.26             -        -         -        0.01      0.06     0.07       0.03     0.06      0.09       0.02     0.06      0.08        -       0.02      0.02       -
2.  Short-tets                                 0.02     0.14      0.16             -        -         -          -        -        -         0.01     0.07      0.08       0.01     0.07      0.08
3.  Colînctive lande etady                     0 04      0 09     0.13                               D-04                0.09      0.13       -
Sobtotal                             0.12      0.4a     0.53             -         -        -         0.05      0.13     0.20      0.04      0.13     0.17       0.03      0.13     0.16        _       0.02      0.02        -         -        -
frics tant Ingeenlea           ~~~~~~0.01  0.07    0.08             -        -                            0.02     0.02       0.01     003       0.54        -       0.02      0.02       -         -         ----
0.13     0.50      0.63             -        -         _        0.05      1.17     0.22      0.05      0.16     0.21       0.03      0.15     0.18        _       0.02      0.02        -         -        _
G.  Physical Contign8ncin:                         1.57      1.17     2.74            0.01      0.01     0.02       0.09     0.10      0.19      0.40      0.30     0.70       0.53      0.42     0.95       0.42     0.28      0.70       0.12     0.06      0.18
Pric: ca ntinogoncies                      0.90     0.66      1.56           0.01       _        0.01      0.03      0.04     0.07       0.15     0.14      0.29      0.31      0.23     0.54       0.29      0.20     0.49       0 1i      0.05     0.16
Subtonal                             2.47      1.83     4.30            0.02      0.01     0.03       0.12      0.14     0.26      0.55      0.44     0.99       0.84      0.65     1.49       0.71     0.48      1.19       7.23     0.11      0.34
Total Pfoject Cbata                           18.41    14.00    32.41             D.28      0.35     0.63       1.09     1.34      2.43      3.87      3.11     6.98       6.03     4.67    10.70        5.28     3.60      8.88       1.86     0.93      2.79
8ate Ca:t                                     10.17     8.09    18.26             0.21     0.31      0.52      0.76      1.00      .76      2.32     1.89      4.21       3.29     2.59      5.88      2.63      1.84      4.47      0.96      0.46      1.42
Total Pei-e bnntlogencîee                      6.67      4.74    11.41            0.06      0.03     0.09       0.24     0.24      0.48      1.15      0.92     2.07       2.21      1.66     3.87       2.23     1.48      3.71       0.78     0.41      1.19 
/1 Local dotie: -nd tenen mnount la an estim:ted US$6.04 million.
Nota:  Di:crepan ie: ana duo ta rounding,
aonrc: 1  iat7 on estimant.
Mdy 1923



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal                                   Cumulative Disbursements
Year and Quarter                                 at End of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1975/76:
September 30, 1975
December 31, 1975                                       -
March 31, 1976                                         180
June 30, 1976                                          360
1976/77:
September 30, 1976                                     660
December 31, 1976                                      990
March 31, 1977                                       1,350
June 30, 1977                                        1,730
1977/78:
September 30, 1977                                   2,480
December 31, 1977                                    3,230
March 31, 1978                                       3,980
.une 30, 1978                                        4,760
1978/79:
September 30, 19S78                                  5,920
December 31, 1978                                    7,080
March 31, 1979                                       8,240
June 30, 1979                                        9,430
1979/80:
September 30, 1979                                  10,320
December 31, 1979                                   10,920
March 31, 1980                                      11 -550
June 30, 1980                                       12,170
1980/81:
September 30, 1980                                  12,790
December 31, 1980                                   13,450
March 31, 1981                                      14,0oo
June 30, 1981
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EINGDO'M OF }IOROCCO
Recovery of Project Costs
Coats                                                                                              /Rvne
Betit Irrigation         Other Initial                      /2       Agricultacal                       Bertit                      Incarne T/5x Reu
Year             Capital and                Capital            Revlacement           Extension         Total        Water Charges         lotit           ta T-                     PayT
Vexe  Capital and           Capit 1            ____________~~~~ii~                                               es __etit_             other         Total        Pays,ents          Total
O____ _c Cost              Costs' _                                    06M                         and Betnsent
---------------------------------------------------------------~------------- (DH th..sand)                 -------------------____________________________________________________
1975                 823                    1,904                  -                     -             2,727            823                 -             -            -               -                823
1976                  823                   6,169                  -                     -             6,992            823                 -             -            -               -                823
1977               3,473                   12,047                  -                     -            15,520            823                 -             -            -               -                823
1978               6,246                   14,738                  -                     -           20,984             823                 -             253          253           3,285           4,361
1979               4,297                  10,640                  290                    -           15,227             861                  3            780          783           9,838          11,482
1980               1,478                    3,519                  -                     -            4,997             940                 31         1,723         1,754          21,277           23,971
1981                 940                      -                   787                  1,656           3,383            940                 52          2,712        2,764          32,817           36,521
1982                 9Z,0                     -                    -                   1,656           2,596            940                 74,        2,772         2,846          32,860          36,646
1983                 940                      -                   373                  1,656           2,969            943                 95         2,833         2,928          32,602          36,473
1984                 940                      -                   207                  1,656          2,803             950                116         2,892         3,008          31,333          35,291
1985                 940                      -                    -                   1,656          2,596             950                153         2,953         3,106          27,882          31,938
1986                 940                      -                   787                  1,656           3,383            950                158         3,012         3,170          23,140           27,260
1987                 940                      -                    -                   1,656          2,596             950                179         3,071         3,250          18,699          22,899
1988                 940                      -                   373                  1,656          2,969             950                200         3,132         3,332          14,986          19,286
1989                 940                      -                   124                  1,656           2,720            950                221         3 ,132        3,353          12,686           16,989
1990                 940                      -                    -                   1,656          2,596             950                221         3,132         3,353          12,161           16,464
1991                 940                      -                   787                  1,656          3,383             950                221         3 ,132        3, 353         12, 161          16,464
1992                 940                      -                    -                   1,656           2,596            950                221          3,132        3,353          12,161           16,464
1993                  940                     -                   373                  1,656           2,969            950                221         3, 132        3,353          12,161           16,464
1994                 940                      -                    -                   1,656           2,596            950                221         3,132         3,353          12,161           16,464
1995                  940                     -                    -                   1,656           2,596            950                221         3,132         3,353          12,161           16,464
1996                 940                      -                   787                  1,656           3,383            950                221         3,132         3,353          12,161           16,464
1997                  940                     -                    -                   1,656           2,596            950                221         3 ,132        3,353          12,161           16,464
1998                  940                     -                   373                  1,656           2,969            950                221         3,132         3,353          10,946           15,249
1999                 940                      -                    -                   1,656           2,596            950                221         3,132         3,353           8,514           12,817
2000                  940                     -                    -                   1,656           2,596            950                221          3,132        3,353           4,257           8,560
Present Value-  17,951                     37,983               1.707                  8,754         66,392           9,047                850         17,543       18,393         138,268         165,229
Cast Recovery Indices
1.  letit Irrigation sahexe:        9,047  s  100%         = 50,
17,951
2.  Other project cmponents,
recavered through incame    18,393  x  100/!,          = 387
taxes                         48,441
3. Total project co-t,
cacovered throgh lBetit        9,04/+18,303  o  1007, = 4i7,
charges and incare taxes:        66,393
/   Including land reform, cojparatives  infrastru-ttue, praject adr.inistration and agrirultarol extensin, and canssltoots.
/2  Cooperatives' water supply and vehicles for agricultural extension service.
/3  Salarias and 06M caste ai vahiclas and equipmeet for agrica-ltral cstansian sasvira; staff salaris doring impleasntatian period  a  iscl-aled in capital cast s.
/4  Assaxing thb provisions af the Agricaltural Inveatment Code appiy:  D111,500/ha bette-ment levy os ireigablc tond avec 5ha,  licha can be paid aver 20 yaaro with 3 years grace
et 47. interest; and assuming pre-ent water charge af DH 39/1000O   wiIl caver foture O&M caste.
/5  Tan on farr  incane after ail chargco; firet DHI,400 inca-e is exempt, 8% tas on DH1,401-6,000 in-- brocket, 107 as D116,001-12,00() br0chri, 127 aa DHI2,001-24,000 brakt, .and
15/. on DH24,001-48,000 brac-et.
/6  Based on repayment aver 20 years at 4% interest nf c-rrent -rket val-a    D116,000/ho fCr raiafed and DH13,000/ha foc irrigated iand.  FPr irrigated  Ic-hrl lond a 9-year
acce-eIatod repayment schedule is as-ued based an the acrant morket ral- cf DH20,000/ha and as o vaciaia    la nalir stLabliaaLi-O lc-y litkid ta i,,,pIr c-ires (sec Ansea 3).
/7   At the social discaunt rate of 107,.
Source:  Mirsion estimace.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 
APPRAISAL OF
M?EKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KUINDOM OF MOROCCO
Prices Used in Economic Analysis /1
Years
Item              1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1987 and on
-__           _    _     _    - -DHJ7ton) ----------------------------------
Commodities 
Dirum wheat/      965    87h    791    716   -625   _F5    Gh    6o2         62      62- 2T
Bread wheat       869    787    712    642    580    559    559    559    559    559    559
Chickpeas                                                                                 1,000
Sunflower                                                                                   900
Late potatoes                                                                               250
Winter vegetables (cabbage)                                                                 360
Sumner vegetables (melons)                                                                  400
Onions                                                                                      1550
Alfalfa (hay)                                                                               200
Tobacco                                                                                   3,900
Apple
/2
In2puts4--
Ammonium nitrate (33%)/3                                                                    h 455
Triple superphosphate (48f)                                                                 414
Potassium sulphate (48%)/                                                                   331
(DH/man-day)
Unskilled labor (average)                                                                     7
/1  In 1°74 dirhams.
7- Farmgate prices.
73  Based on IBRD/EAPD projections; adJuxted for shipping and handling' costa.
71  Estimated CIF price in regional trade.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Prices Used in Financial Analysis
Price
Item                                                    (DH/ton)
Commodities/2
Durum wheat                                             650
Bread wheat                                             600
Chickpeas                                             1,000
Sunflower                                                900
Late potatoes                                           250
Winter vegetables (cabbage)                              360
Summer vegetables (melons)                              400
Onions                                                  150
Alfalfa (hay)                                           200
Tobacco                                               3,900
(1975)    (1980)  (1985)
ipples/3                             800       600     300
/2
Inputs -                                                      A
Ammoniumn nitrate (33%)                                 42 9-w
Triple superphosphate (48%)                             3604
Potassium sulphate (48%)                                 432-
(DH/man-day)
Unskilled labor (average)                                  7
/1  In 1974 dirhams.
7- Farmgate prices.
7- Assuming that currently highly protected market vill be
gradually opened to international competition in face of
likely excess production for domestic market.
/4  1973 prices for fertilizer used in producing 1974 crop.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
EKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KITGDOM OF MOROCCO
Net Income of 2ha Traditional Farm in Plain
Gross Value             Production               Net Value
Crop               Area      of Production                Cost                of Production
Present   Year 10       Present   Year 10       Present   Year 10
(ha) -_                   ______---(DH)------------_______________
Durnm wheat         1.0       650        780           163        175          487        605
Legumnes            1.0       600        750          295         354          305        396
Total          2.0    1,250       1730           17         729          79_2     1,001
Less:  Income tax                      /1                                       -          8
Plus:  Imputed value of faminy labor--                                         259        286
Net farmr income                                /2                           1,051      1,287
Plus:  Labor income from work on other farms-                                  630        630
Net agricultural income                                                         81     1,917
/1  Fanily labor employAd on farm valued at DH7/maan-day.
7- Based on 3 ran-months of seasonal work at DH7/man-day.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
MEBNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
/1
Net Income of 4.5ha Traditional Farm in Causse
Gross Value            Production               Net Value
Crop                 Area      of Production               Cost               of Production
Present   Year 10      Present   Year 10       Present   Year 10
(ha)      ------------------- (DHT ---------------------------
Durum wheat          2.25      877        877          290       290          587        587
Fallow               2.25       -          -            -         -            -          -
Total           4.50     877        777          290        290            7 _
Less:  Incorne tax                    /2
Plus:  Imputed value of family labor                                          126        126
Net farm income                                                               713        713
/1 Excluding any income from livestock activities or off-farm work.
/2  Family labor employed on farm valued at DH7/man-day.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975,



ANNEX 9
Table 5
APPRAISQI. OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KII,IGDOM  F MOROCCC
Annual Income of Landless Agricultural Laborers
Farm_ERplgyÊnt.    Daily Walze      income
(Man-days/Ybar)      ----(DH) --
Permanent workers                      300                 8          2.1,400
Seasonal workers                      2061                 7          1,440
/1 120 man-days by head of household at 7DH/day amd 120 man-days by other
members of the household at DH5/day.
Source: Mission estimate based on current wage rates in the project area.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table6
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Net Income of Cooperative Holding Comprising
,6ha Rainfed and 1.5ha Irrirated Land
Gross Value           Production             Net Value
Crop                 Area     of Production             Cost              of Produetion
Year 1   Year 10      Year 1   Year 10      Year 1   Year 10
(ha)   ----------------------_--- DH                      ------__ ____
Rainfed
Durum iwheat       2       1,950    2,600          964    1,032          986    1,568
Bread wheat        2       2,160    2,6440         994    1,o54        1,166    1,586
Legumes            1         850    1,000          472       500         378       500
Sunflower          1         810       900         468       490         342       410
Subtotal                 5 ,770    7,1>0       2,898    3,076        2,872    7,06>4
Irrigated
Durum wheat        0.75    1,462    1,950          512       589         950    1,361
Late potatoes      0.22    1,125    1,406          635       666         490       740
Winter vegetables 0.45    1,620    1,944           653       718         967    1,226
Summer vegetables 0.45    3,600    5,400         1,009    1,224        2,591    4,176
Onions            0.22       844    1,012          498       533         346       479
Alfalfa            0.04      100       140          68        82          32        58
Tobacco           0.03       150      150           91        91          <9        59
Subtotal        2.17    8,901   12,002                  3,903         5,3 8,099
Total                   1>4,671   191          6,364    6,79         8,307   12,163
Less:  Annual fixed      /1                                       1,000           1,000
Land payments2.                                            1 87 (1,531)   3 738(3,o59)
Income before incyne tax                                          5,36(5,776)   7, l2 (8,104)
Less:  Income taxL                      A                          323  (350)      51Q0  (578)
Plus:   Ifputed income from family labor-                         1,465           lç632
Net farx income                         Éi3(6,891)   É(9,162)
/   Includes depreciation and interest on investment (mule, implements), supplementary
feed for mule, repairs of farm implements, and a charge for the operations and
maintenance of the cooperative's infrastructure (water supply, access road, etc.).
/2  Based on repayment over 20 years at 4% with reduced payments in years 1-3 of the
estimated market values of the cooperative holding received, net of previously
held land relinquished to the State; repayment for 5ha of rainfed and 1.5ha of
irrigated land    for 2-ha freeholders joining the cooperative; amounts in paren-
theses refer to repayments and incomes of former collectiviste -with 8ha.
/3  Tax on income after all charges; first DH1,400 exempt; tax is 8% for DH1,401-6,000
income bracket, 10% for rH6,001-12,000 bracket, 12% for DH12,Q01-24,000 bracket,
and 15% for EH 24,001-48,000 bracket.
A   Family labor employed on farm valued at DH7/man-day.
Source: Mission eetimate.
MaY 1975



Table 7
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Net IncomTe of Cooperative Holding CoMlrising
3ha Rainfed Land and 1ha Share in Irrigated Orchard
Gross Value           Production             Net Value
Crop               Area        of Production              Cost              cf Production
Year 1   Year 10      Year 1   Year 10       Year 1   Year 10
(ha)      --               -----      (DH)---------------------------
Rainfed
Duirumn wheat     1.0         975    1,300           h82       516          493      784
Bread wheat       1.0       1,080    1,320           497       527          583       7°3
Legumes           0.5         425       500          236       250          189       250
Sunflower         O  5       405       450          234       24, h        171      205
Subtotal        3.0                370           1,149     87837        1,436    2?,032
Irm-gated Orchard
Apples            1.0      16,000    9,000         2,233    2,522       13,767    6,478
Total                    1        12 ,70        3 8215,203                         5
Less:  Anual. fixed  ost/L-                                                 1,000    1,000
Land paymentnZ 2                                                    7 383       227
Income before inco»le tax                                                             7,283
I.ess:  Income tax 73                                                         4O        h96
Plus:  Imputed income from f amily laborl-                                    348    _ 929
Net farm income                                                             6.718    7,180
L   Includes depreciation and interest on investment, supplementary feed for mule,
repairs of farm implements, and an O & M charge for cooperative infrastructure.
/2  lased on repayment over 20 years at 4% interest of the estimated market value of
individually held rainfed land net of previously-held land relinquished to the
State; and a variable income stabilization levy over 9 years,            linked to the
price of apples which is assumed  to decline sharply, covering an accelerated
payment for the orchard and leaving a balance to finance the Cooperativels capital
requirements.
/3  Tax on income after all charges; first DH1,4O00 exempt; tax is 8% for DHl ,4f1ç-6,OOC
income bracket, 10% for DH6,001-12,000 bracket, 12% for DH125001-24,Oo  bracket,
and 15% for DH24,001-48,000 bracket.
/A  Family labor employed on farm valued at DH7/man-day.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



AmNEX 9
Table 8
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Net Income from a 1 ha Share in Cooperatives'
Commlnlally-owned Irrigated Orchard
Gross Value            Production              Net Value
Crop               Area    of Production              Cost               of Production
Year 1   Year 10      Year 1   Year 10      Year 1   Year 10
(ha) --                           (DH)----------------------------
Irrigated Orchard
Apples           1.0    16,000    9,000         2,233    2,522       13,767    FL~,178
Less:  Annual fixed sost-/1                                                28        28
Iand payments 2                                                  7 270       -
Inconme before incgme tax
Iess:  Income tx!3                                                        415       4113
Plus:  Imputed value of family labor/4                                    175       175
Net farm income                                                         6,229    6,212
/1  0 & M charge for cooperative infrastructure (water supply, roads, etc.).
/2  Uased on a variable income stabilization levy over 9 years, linked to the
price of apples which is assumed to decline sharply; any balance over land
payments would be used by the cooperative to finance its capital requirements.
/3  Tax on income after all charges; first DHM,400 exempt; tax is 8% for DH1,401-6,000
income bracket, 1C% for DH6,001-12,000 bracket, 12% for DH12,001-24,000 bracket,
and 15% for DH24,001-48,000 bracket.
/4  Family labor employed on farm valued at DH7/man-day.
8ource: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 9
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Net Inconie of Collective Land Rightholder
in Voluntary Cooperative (7.7 ha holding
Gross Value           Production            Net Value
Crop                 Area             of Production              Cost              of Production
Year 1  Year 10    Year 1    Year 10    Year 1    Year 10    Year 1   Year 10
ha-----DH-
Durun wheat      3.85     3.85       1,501      2,002        496       766        1,005    1,236
Fallow           3.85        -         -          -           -         -           -         -
Legumes            -      3.85         _        1,384         -        310          -       1,074
7_       7.70 1_ 101  ,501  3,386   b6                           1 ,007    2,310
Less:  Income tax                     /2                                            -          73
P-lus:  Imputed value of family labor                                               216       904
Net farn income                                                                   1,221    3,lhl
/1  Tax on income after all charges; first DH 1,400 exempt; tax is 8% for DH 1,401-6,000
income bracket.
/2  Family labor employed on farm valued at DH 7/man-days.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 1 0
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Net Income of 3ha Farm in Betit Irrigation Extension Area
Gross Value                                                       Net Value
Crop                Area          of Production                  Production Cost                   of Production
Present       Year 10           Present        Year 10           Present       Year 10
Without  With                   Without  With                    Without   Wlth
Project Project                 Pro.ject Pro.ject                Project Project
(ha)   ------------------__-____________________ _D)           - - _____________________-_
Rainfed
Durum wheat        1.5      975      1,170     --            244        262     __            731       908      __
Legumes            1.5      900      1,125     --            442        531     --            458        594     --
Subtotal        3.0     1,875      2,295     --                                           1 ,189    1,502      --
Irrigated
Durum wheat        1.50     --         --     2,924          --         --     1,o24          --        __      1,900
Potatoes           0.45     --         --     2,250          --         --     1,270          --        --        980
Winter vegetables 0.90      --         --     3,2h0          --         __     1,306          __         __     1,934
Summer vegetables 0.90      --         --     7,200          --         --     2,018          --        --      5,182
Onions             0.45     --         --     1,688          --         --       996           _                  692
Altalfa            0.09     __         __       200          --         --       136          __         --        64
Tobacco            o.o6     --         --       300          --         --       182          --        --        118
Subtotal         35      --         --    17,72           --        -       6,932          --               1
Total                  1 875     2,295   1.7....2                  793      6,932 7
2
Lesst Land bette  nent levr- -i
1noetx3                                                                               _8               855
pus:  IImputed incomne from family labor/4                                                                 428    1
Net farm income                                5                                              1 f77     1,922   11,765
Plus:  Labor income from work on other farhs 420                                                           420        -
Net agricultural income                                                                       1,999     2 342       7
/1 Ineludes water charge to cover OlM costs of irrigation system.
T he first 5ha of farms with irrigated areas of 20ha or less are exempt from this levy.
Tax on income after all charges have been deducted; first DH1,400 are exempt; tax is 8% for DH1,4i01-6,000
income bracket.
A Family labor employed on farm valued at DR7/man-day.
5  Based on 2 man-months of seasonal work at 11H7/man-day.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 11
APPRAISAL OF
ME3NES AGRICULTIRE DEVELOPRENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Net Income of 7.5ha Famn in Betit Irrigation Extension Area
Gross Value                                                        Net Value
Crop                    Area          of Production                    Production Cost                   of Production
Present        Year 10           Present        Year 10           Present        Year 10
Without  WV&th                   Without   With                   Without   With
Project  Project                 ProJect  ProJect                 Project Project
(ha)   -------------------------------------------=DU)-----------------------------------------
Rainfed
iiri   beat           3.75    2,1437     2,925      --            610        656       --        1,827      2,269       --
Legumes               3.75    2 250       2,812      --          1,05      1 327       __         1.145      14          --
Subtotal           7                                           71i 5,737  --  1               2,972        75        --
Irrigated
DSnurm iheat          3.75       --         --     7,310          --         --      2,560          --         --     4,750
Potatoes              1.12       --         --     5,625          __         __      3,175          -_         __     2,450
Winter vegetables    2.25        --         --     8,100          --         --      3,265          --         --     4,835
Sumer vegetables    2.25         --         --    18,000          --         --      5,045          --        --    12,955
Onions                1.13       --         --     4,220          --         __      2,490          --         --     1,730
ilfalfa               0.22       --         --        500         --         --        340          --         --       160
Tobacco               0.15                           750          --         --        455          --         --       295
Subtotal          10.7        --         --                    --         --    17,330          _- _       _      27,175
Total                         677                             î71       :12,      33p1        2972    -37          777i
Less:  Lanid betterment levy¢                                                                         --         --       123
Incoae taxLa                                                                                  126        188    1,334
Plus:  Impated ineane from fanily labor/                                                              970      1 072        -
Net famn income                                                                                     316                   252 71
1 Includes vater charge to cover O&M cost Of irrigation system.
A1  111500 per ha payable at once or in 17 instalments vith 14% interest after 3 years of grace. As the first 5ha
are exempted, the levy is imposed on 2.5ha only.
/3  Tax cn inceme atter all charges have been deducted; fir4t IH1,400 are exemPt; tax is 8% for  M1 ,404-6,000 income
bracket, 12% for DH12,o0i-24,000 bracket, and 15% for DH24,001-48,000 bracket.
/4  Family labor eaployed on farn valued at 11H7/man-day.
Source: Mission estinate.
Msy 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The main economic benefits would be the incremental agricultural
production derived from increases in yields and cropping intensity. Incre-
mental output is valued at economic farmgate prices (Table 1) over the
assumed 25-year life of the project.
2.        Economic costs were obtained by deducting from financial project
costa:
(a) the cost of the consultants' study on collective lands
which is not related to project benefits;
(b) import duties and local taxes; and
(c) price contingencies.
3.        Based on the economic benefits and costs as defined above, the
economic return for the project is estimated at 24% (Table 2). A separate
economic analysis of the Betit irrigation component has also yielded a 24%
return.
4.        Sensitivity tests were made on the basic rate of return which
suggest that even under the pessimistic assumption of a 50% increase in
investment cost combined with a 25% reduction in net benefits the rate of
return would be 12%.
5.        Economic benefits not considered in the rate of return analysis
are:
(a) the improvement in living conditions of the future coopera-
tive members due to their resettlement in viable rural
centers with adequate water supply and easy access to
all-weather roade;
(b)  the experience gained from the planned implementation of
land tenure reform on collective land; and
(c) the economic impact of the proposed reconnaissance study
on the development possibilities of collectively-held lands.



APPASL oe
MEKNE ÂGRICUL1IJR DEVEOPENT PROJEOT
<IG2OD< bF MÔOCCO'
Economic Coets and Benefits
IncreuientaJ Couoet'1
Capital                    Operation and                    Incremental              Incremental
Investment    Replacement    Maintenance       Total          Net Benefits           Net Cash Flow
------------------------------------        USr thousand ---------------------------------------
Year
1975                  1400                                          1 -400                                    (400)
1976                 1,310             -              -           1,310                110                  (1,200)
1977                 3,170             _               _          3,170                260                  (2,910)
1978                 4,850                                        4 -  4,850           415                  (4,435)
1979                 3,640            75                          3,715                853                  (2,862)
1980                 1,120             -               -          1,120              1,857                     737
1981                   -             189              575           764              3,270                  2,506
1982                   -               -              575           575              4,925                  4,350
1983                   -              93              575           668              5,615                   4,947
1984                   -              48              575           623              6,627                   6,004
1985                   -               -              575           575              6,811                   6,236
1986                   -             189              575           764              6,811                   6,047
1987                   -               -              575           575              6,811                   6,236
1988                   -              93              575           668              6,811                   6,143
1989                   -              29              575           604              6,811                  6,207
1990                   -               -              575           575              6,811                   6,236
1991                   -             189              575           764              6,811                   6,047
1992                   -               -              575           575              6,811                   6,236
1993                   -              93              575           668              6,811                   6,143
1994                   -               -              575           575              6,811                   6,236
________________________________________________________________________________________________
Rate of Return:       24%
- a
/1  All cost elements are net of duties, taxes, and price contingencies.                                                        C>
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 2
APPRAISAL O?
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINODOM OF MOROCCO
Sensltivity Analysis-Economic Rate of Return
Assumtions                                                    Economnic Rate
of Return
(%)
1. Basic ru,21-
2. Capital investuent cost increased by 50%                        17
3.  Operation and maintenance costs increased by 50%               23
4. Incremental net benefits reduced by 25%                         18
5. Incremental net benefits increased by 15%                       28
6. 50% increase in capital investment costs combined
iwith a 25% reduction in incremental net benefits              12
L   See Table 1.
Source:  Mission estimate.
May 1975



ANNEX 1 0
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
MEKNES AGRICULTURE. DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Estimated Foreign Exchange Savings Annually at Full Development
Amount
Item                                                              (US$ thousand)
Incremental Foreign Exchange Benefits/L
With Project                                                     18,464
Without Project                                                  13,878
Increment                                                         4;586
Incremental Foreign Exchange Cost/2
With Project                                                      7,231
Without Project                                                   5,294
Increment                                                         1,937
Incremental Foreign Exchange Savings                                   269
Debt Service4                                                            334
Net Foreign Exchange Savings                                           2=1
L   Incremental production for export or import substitution valued at
economie prices; includes 100% of incremental wheat, sunflower, tobacco
and apples production and 10% of vegetables production.
t  Foreign exchange component of the production cost.
e3  Assuming a US$14  million IDA credit.
Source: Mission estimate.
May 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CALENDER YEAR
1975        1976         1977        1978         1979         1980
AIR PHOTOGRAPHY
CADASTRAL SURVEY & MAPPING                       _ _  _ r                                     - _       -
SOIL, TOPOGRAPHY & SOCIO-ECONOMIC
SURVEYS                                              -  -  -  - _   _ _ :i
LAND CONSOLIDATION & REDISTRIBUTION
SEBAA AIOUN      CONSOLIDATION                                           -Hr lu
REDISTRIBUTION                                                  R1
AIN TAOUJDAT     CONSOLIDATION
REDISTRIBUTION                  |m 
DIR              CONSOLIDATION                                                                    -        -
REDISTRIBUTION                                                                           i           I_ 
TIZGUIT          CONSOLIDATION
REDISTRIBUTION                                                                                        i 7  7|
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION & NEW CONSTRUCTION (BETIT)                                       - _   _   _   -  _  _  _
CONSTRUCTION OF WELLS, POTABLE WATER SUPPLY &                                        - _      - _  _  _             - _   I   -
SMALL IRRIGATION WORKS FOR COOPERATIVES
CONSTRUCTION OF ACCESS ROADS & OTHER                                                - _  _                                    -
INFRASTRUCTURE
DESTONING                                                                     - _ _ _ _ _  _ _                - _
M__M__ MAPPING & PREPARATION OF PLANS FOR LAND REALLOTMENT
cesse   %soit DISTRIBUTION OF NEW HOLDINGS
Worid Bank-9652



KINGOI      OF MOROCCO
MEKNES AGRICULTURE DEVELOFUENT PRI           ECT
ORGANIZATION CNART
MINISTFO f0F V»E INTERIOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P  llTtO GIUTF     RIUE M*NISTOR S OFFICE
OFFICe 0F FOC             1O I REC,ORATF 0F E12UIPUENT                                                                                  O  I RECTORATE OF OAGICU LTONOC OEVFLOPMFNT              CI tVESroC: OIR ECTOF ArE     `SOOF
GOVEFNFOR                                                                   _. _                                      I                                                        E   _ _ _      _      . 
OF MEPINE PROVINCE                                                                    M.jo, O,A.V, O.MDOFW C.IWO,5                      FO,,RVFI |   wl  vo     P,o>tcl od   E.I,...AV Sflvka  |    _ck OSiWf Ad P,OIfD                            O,OIad UpIT.. fV
fwRf~   RolT                                                  Cor                                                                                                                 2Ct
of CdSctl_  L  1 Dsatu n                                                                                           .         t S  Oq      _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0O4ICI~MAic
L        Mffl oll30-
cW- 






[BROD 11201
S                                ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~\                                KIGDM  FMOR-(
$~~~~~~~
<~~< '~~ oie Taoej  y    x>~~~~~~  «    knY sAgnicufrure Devebopment Praject
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$ 
To Roba' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI                                                             l
Aphojet  rObror
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p,g
A PRINGS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AceMn ei
~~~~~~~~~ru~~~~~~~~~~S es' 
U,~~~~~~~~~~rioto  ti000 yt 
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptbe00e epyppffo
eï~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dsrc  ontrs
qAJES SPRFNG$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N&S< NcclîebeIsdtCinoe iovvd
2    Rcck   so   sID h oiol   fo  ttt  2
Kututc LOEESte   eten
-S (    nO Contours,   5 
go ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES~~~~oraseestssooe10 trr
Se0~ ~~~~~n
t?>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PNS



