f7 T-3
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 555 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Meknes Agriculture Development Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 555 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Meknes Agriculture Development Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1975, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   " Project Area" means communes rurales of Dir, Ain Taoujdat, Sebaa
Aioun and Tizguit; and
(b)   "Services Provinciaux" means the sub-division of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform responsible inter alia for the Project
Area.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost


﻿4
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
.orrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing
October 1, 1985, and ending April 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Unleqs the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, in order to assist the Borrower in preparing the land reform plans included
in Part B of the Project and in other aspects of the execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ a land capability classification consultant and such other


﻿5
consultants as shall be required, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part K of the Project, the Borrower shall, in its Ministry
of Interior, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish the position of Deputy to
the Chief of the Services Provinciaux of Meknes, to be responsible to the said
Chief for the execution of the Project and shall ensure that the said position shall
be filled at all times by a person with such qualifications and experience as shall
be required for the successful carrying out of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the said Services Provinciaux are at
all times staffed with personnel with adequate qualifications and experience and
in sufficient number to ensure the successful execution of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association not later than
September 30, 1975 or such other date as the Association shall agree, a plan
acceptable to the Association, for the reorganization of the Services Provinciaux.
Section 3.05. In carrying out the land reform included in Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   determine the size of holdings to be distributed by using as a criterion
a net farm income potential during the first year after distribution of DH 6,000
such income to be based on land productivity assessed by methods acceptable to
the Association; and
(b)   undertake a detailed survey of incomes of members of cooperatives
receiving land under the said Part B and analyze data on the income of such
cooperative members.
Section 3.06. Before carrying out Part H of the Project, the Borrower shall
survey the existing irrigation system of the Betit are to: (i) provide the basis
for design of the rehabilitation and extension of the said system; and (ii) to verify
the quantity and quality of the water to be used in the operation of the extension
of the said system.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation


﻿6
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thec..,mof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall establish: (i) in the Services Provinciaux
not later than December 31, 1975, or such other date as the Borrower and the
Association shall agree, an accounting system, acceptable to the Association, and
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in
respect of the Project except Part K, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof except the said Part
K; such records shall include, inter alia, the amounts collected from farmers
receiving land in the Project Area, actual operation, maintenance and capital costs
of the irrigation works located in the Betit area and the amount of charges collected
for repayment of capital costs, and for operation and maintenance of irrigation
works located in the Betit area; and (ii) in its Ministry of Interior, records adequate
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the said Part
K. The Borrower shall have such accounts audited and shall furnish such accounts,


﻿7
together with a report of such audit, not later than four months after the end
of each fiscal year.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association
not later than March 31, 1976 or such other date as the Borrower and the
Association shall agree, in-service training programs for agricultural assistants,
agricultural agents and clerks, acceptable to the Association, and shall start
implementation of such programs not later than December 31, 1976, or such other
date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
(b)   The Borrower shall appoint to each Cooperative Group Center in the
Project Area a clerk trained under the program referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, or under a similar training program, promptly upon the establishment
of each such Center.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that additional pumping is allowed
only if the Borrower is satisfied that such pumping shall not be detrimental to
prior users of the local water of the phreatic aquifer as well as to the beneficiaries
of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause
to be operated and maintained, the plants, machinery, equipment and other
property required for the Project, and shall make or cause to be made all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and economic
practices.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall charge beneficiaries of the program
of distribution of State land located in the Project Area the fair market value
of the land so distributed.
(b)   The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure
that: (i) farmers benefiting from the existing irrigation works in the Betit Area
and farmers benefiting from the extension of the said works included in Part H
of the Project, are charged for the full cost of operation and maintenance of the
said works and that farmers benefiting from the said extension be charged with
a reasonable proportion of the capital costs of the said extension and of the
rehabilitation of the said existing irrigation works; and (ii) that all such charges
shall be billed and collected within a reasonable time.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole and its Caisses Locales to make available adequate credit to farmers in


﻿8
the Project Area. Such credit shall be conditioned upon the farmers' acceptance
of such particular cropping practices and weed control measures as may be
recommended from time to time by the Services Provinciaux.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof,
namely, that Dahir portant loi No. 1-72-277 of December 29, 1972 of the
Borrower, 'relatif a l'attribution d des agriculteurs de terres agricoles ou a vocation
agricole faisant partie du domaine prive de l'Etat', Dahir portant loi No. 1-72-278
of December 29, 1972 of the Borrower 'relatif aux cooperatives agricoles
d'attributaires de lots domaniaux et/ou d'attributaires de lots constitues sur
d'anciens immeubles collectifs', Dahir No. 1-69-25 of July 25, 1969 of the
Borrower, 'formant Code des Investissements Agricoles', the Dahir 'organisant la
Tutelle administrative des collectiviites et rglementant la gestion et 'alienation des
biens collectifs', dated April 27, 1919, the ArrOte viziriel reglementant la gestion
des biens collectifs ayant fait l'objet d'un partage en jouissance perpetuelle', dated
August 14, 1945, the Lois particulie'res or Dcrets d'application promulgated in
connection therewith or any provision thereof, shall have been materially amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect the Project adversely and
such event shall continue for a period of 60 days.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions: that the Borrower has (i) published
the decree declaring the Project Area "zone de remembrement" in accordance with
the provisions of Article 6 of Dahir No. 1-62-105 relatif au remembrement rural,
dated June 30, 1962; (ii) established the commission de remembrement for the
Project Area pursuant to Article 8 of the said Dahir No. 1-62-105; and (iii)
established the commission referred to in Article 7 of Dahir portant loi
No. 1-72-277 relatif a l'attribution d des agriculteurs de terres agricoles ou a'


﻿9
vocation agricole faisant partie du domaine prive de l'Etat dated December 29,
1972, for the Project Area.
Section 6.02. The date September 11, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Morocco
Cable address:
Ministfre Finances
Rabat
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s / Abdelhadi Boutaleb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. P. Bart
Acting Vice President
EMENA Region


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                                      47%
(a)  under Parts              4,310,000
A and B of
the Project
(b)  under Parts              3,560,000
C through G
of the Project
(c)  under the                3,060,000
other Parts of
the Project
(2)  Equipment and                   740,000          100% of foreign
vehicles                                         expenditures (c.i.f.)
or 70% of local ex-
penditures (ex-factory)
(3)  Consultants'                    500,000          100% of foreign
services                                         expenditures or
80% of total
expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                    1,830,000
TOTAL        14,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
(c)   the term    "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and local expenditures.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) with regard to Category (1) and to local expenditures under Category
(2), if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withd1rawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred


﻿13
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase agricultural production in the Project
Area and to extend the benefits of such production more widely, through improved
management and agricultural practices. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A      Aerial photography of about 200,000 ha to a scale of 1:12,500.
Part B      Soil, topographic, cadastral, and socio-economic surveys of about
135,000 ha and preparation of maps to a scale of 1:5,000 followed
by preparation of plans for, and implementation of, a land reform
program.
Part C      Destoning of about 5,000 ha of cultivable land.
Part D      Construction of about 160 km    of earth access roads.
Part E      Construction of wells to provide potable water for new cooperatives
and installation of pumps, storage tanks and distribution systems to
stand pipes.
Part F      Construction of stores for group centers serving about four cooperatives
where adequate storage buildings do not already exist.
Part G      Construction of small irrigation systems to serve about 600 ha on
newly established cooperatives utilizing surplus water available from
wells constructed for potable water supply.
Part H      Rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and drainage system serving
about 3,500 ha in the Betit Area and extension of the system to serve
an additional 500 ha approximately.
Part I      Construction, equipping and staffing of offices needed for Project
administration and construction and equipping of staff housing for
agricultural extension agents.
Part J      Provision of equipment and vehicles for Project administration and
agricultural services in the Project Area.


﻿15
Part K     A reconnaissance study of tribal collective land throughout Morocco
to facilitate future development of such land.
*          *          *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1980.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for construction of access roads, wells, potable water systems,
irrigation works other than those in the Betit Area, stores for cooperatives,
administrative offices and staff housing and destoning shall be awarded on the
basis of the Borrower's local procurement procedures for such contracts.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (ii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Morocco may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Morocco if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods


﻿I
17
includes a value added in Morocco equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Morocco.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts subject to the provisions of Part Al of this
Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the


﻿18
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


