Docluc2t of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIMCIL USE ONLY
C-iZ Z3sf6- 7J
M~l 'R'X1 2 cWF. Bi lY
HAbLtJ2Mv  <  V,  R     / J495J-LhI  ,N                              Repj'No. P-5495-BEN
[itLL_ir'. ~ ~ /M.,, V'j }6,/,   /2, , \,, A,1 N
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 4.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
MAY 31, 1991
Ts doumn bas a restricted diibtdb oo aF asy be used by redpiens *ly in the perfomnance of
their offRial dties. Its contentS may not otherwise be dsiosed withou World Bank sathorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc IV
USSl   =   CFAF 280
CFAF 1  =   US$0 0036
CFAF 1 million   =   USI8,671
USSl   =  SDR .750
SDR 1  a   USS1.334
FISCAL YEAR
January 01   --  Docember 81
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metr ic
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item       ---------------- ----------- English/French --------------…--________________
8CP           Central Prolect Office/Buresu central des projets
CPC          Planning Units/Collules do programmation et de coordination
FAC           French Aid Agency/Fonds d'aide ot de coop6ration
GOP           Gross Domestic Product/Produit interieur brut
GTZ           German Agency for Technical Cooperation/Office allemand de Ia coop4ration
technique
MP            Ministry of Planning and Statlstics/Minist6r, char96 du Plan
PIP           Public Investment Program/Programs d'invost;ssements publics
TA            Technical Assistance/Assistance technique
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme/Programme des Nations Unies pour le
d6voloppement (PNUO)
1/    The CFA Franc e',hange rate Is fixed at a rate of 60:1 with the French Franc. The latter is
a floating currency.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUB'IC OF BENIN
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Republic of Benin
Amount:                        SDR 4.1 million (US$5.4 million equivalent)
Termst                         Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Financing Plan:                IDA            US$5.4 million eq.
Government     US$0.6 million eq.
Total          US$6,0 million  ,Q.
Economic Rate of Returns       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Reports       None
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



H4ORAUDUM4 AND HECOMEENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TUE INTUMTIORAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEE EXRCUTIVI DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO TIE REPUBLIC OF BENIN
POR A Pa-INvesTHENT PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 4.1 million (US$5.4 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Benin on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help
finance a Pre-investment Project.
2.          A  Country  Economic  Memorandum  (Report  No. 4686-BEN)  was
distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1984, and this is
supplemented by the analysis of the country's macroeconomic situation and
prospects in the Report and Recommendation of the President on a proposed
credit for a Second Structural Adjustment Program (Report No. P-5570-BEN) of
June 3, 1991.    A brief overview of the growth prospects of the economy
incorporating the findings of recent economic missions is given in paragraphs
3 to 6.
3.          Economic  Developments.    During  the  1975-1982  period,  the
Government's efforts were directed towards accelerating growth by increasing
state ownership of productive activities.   Most private businesses and
financial institutions were nationalized, collective farming systems were set
up and sizable investments were made to support public enterprises.   The
Beninese economy initially achieved an average real growth of about 5 percent
per annum in a context of internal and external stability.   This growth
performance resulted in part from the buoyant investment activity under the
First State Plan (1977-80), and in part from strong reexport trade and also
trade in agricultural products with neighboring Niger and Nigeria, which were
then experiencing export-led booms.   The end of the boom in neighboring
countries and the completion of major public sector projects in 1983 revealed
an economic structure saddled with poorly-designed, low-return investments,
heavy external debt service, a large part of the productive economy without
adequate incentives, and a state-dominated modern sector poorly managed and
suffering losses.  T. a, between 1983 and 1987, real GDP stagnated.  Public
finances and balance of payments registered deficits averaging 9 percent and
7 percent of GDP, respectively,--covered mainly by piling up internal and
external arrears--while the banking sector accumulated non-performing loans.
4.          The Structural Adlustment Process.  The deteriorating economic
situation first elicited a piecemeal response from the Government, which
yielded limited results.   Faced with the pervasive repercussions of the
crisis resulting in a total collapse of the financial system, increasing
salary arrears to the civil servants and social unresc, the Government
adopted in 1989 a more radical approach to structural adjustment with the
support of IDA and the IMF (SAL I and a SAF arrangement) as well as of other
donors. The adjustment program aimed at raising the real GDP growth rate to
about 3 percent per annum within a viable macroeconomic framework.
Specifically, the program sought tot (a) reduce the role of the public sector
to the provision of core public services; (b) reinforce public sector
resource management by improving investment programming and the management of
public enterprises remaining in the government portfolio; (c) restructure the
banking system to enable it to resume effective financial intermediation; and
(d) reform incentive policies to promote private sector activities.



-2-
5.          The structural adjustment program reflected a major departure
from the Government's previous dirigiste economic policy orientation towards
greater reliance on private initiative and market forces.   Progress was
achieved in a number of areas such as trade policy reform and deregu'ation,
liquidation of nationalized banks and of public enterprises, reduction of the
public wages bill and the adoption of a three-year rolling investment program
agreed with the Association. However, the economic and financial context
deteriorated markedly in the last six months of 1989, with a contraction of
government revenues following the decrease in transit trade, the illiquidity
of the banking system and declining tax and duties collection performance
stemming from growing fraud and intermittent strikes. By December 1989, In
the face of growing social and political unrest, the situation was no longer
conducive to the implementation of structural reforms. With the resolution
of the political crisis in early 1990, conditions for such implementation
were re-established and specific second tranche release conditions of SAL I
were fulfilled by June 1990.
6.          The new Government, elected on a platform of economic reform and
social renewal in March 1991, is now in an even stronger position to
internalize and implement the next phase of structural adjustment reforms
discussed with the Association. SAL II negotiations took place shortly after
the proposed Project. To restore sustained growth in an acceptable social
framework, the following central development issues will be addressed:
(a) public finance viability; (b) the creation of an enabling environment for
the private sector; (c) inadequate administrative capacity and human
resources constraints; and (d) the reduction in the competitiveness of the
tradeable goods sector.
7.          Public Investment.  As the resumption of growth should rely on
the private sector's supply response, public investments will have to be
channelled into areas supportive of increased investments by the private
sector. Priority areas will include rehabilitation of infrastructure and
social services, utilities, agricultural extension and support to rural
development. The ratio of public investment to GDP should remain broadly
constant around 8 percent, but the Government's contribution should be
increased. The ratio of overall investment to GDP, which declined from 13.9
percent in 1985 to 11.5 percent in 1989 is expected to rise significantly.
Specific issues critical to the design and implementation of the new public
investment strategy are discussed below.
8.          The most recent reviews carried out by the Government and IDA
have identified three major issues in the design and execution of the public
investment program (PIP): (a) the unavailability or shortage of counterpart
funds and of a part of external financing, due to the contraction of public
revenues and the accumulation of arrears; (b) an appreciable level of non-
programmed investment expenditures; and (c) the lack of proper identification
and justification of a number of projects proposed for inclusion in the PIP.
The reviews also concluded that there was room for additional public
investments in Benin consistent with a viable macroeconomic framework,
provided that these be of acceptable quality In terms of their financial
conditions and economic impact, and realistic in terms of the absorptive
capacity of the sectors.
9.          Public investment proposals should grow out of sectoral analyses
and strategies.   While considerable progress has been achieved in the
formulation of sectoral strategies for agriculture, health, education, power



and transport,  it is unsatisfactory in other sectors.   This disparate
sectoral understanding, compounded by institutional deficiencies, prevents
the Mlnistry of Planning (MP) from taking the lead in project selection and
definition of priorities consistent with the macroeconomic framework. Thus,
the information available in all sector areas needs to be uniformly upgraded
to ensure rational evaluation of competing sector investment claims and
balanced analysis and preparation of individual projects.
10.         Investment programming has suffered from inadequate allocation of
responsibilities between the MP and the technical ministries. The MP was
expected to play a major role in project design which was incompatible with
its key function as the ultimate authority for selecting projects.
Conversely, the lack of transparency of the screening process at the
technical level, encouraged by communication deficiencies, led to the
isolation of the MP. The MP has to lead with more vigor and success and, to
that effect, has to be released of conflicting assignments.
11.         Proiect Obiectives.  The Project will have both immediate and
long-term objectives:   first,  to relieve the immediate constraints on
investments caused by the lack of properly prepared projects; and, second.
over the Project period, create the institutional capacity for identifying
investment proposals and processing them through feasibility studies,
obtaining financing and establishing final project execution plans. These
objectives will require the Project to (a) rapidly create and then sustain a
pipeline of investment proposals identified, formulated, justified and fully
prepared for evaluation by potential financing agencies and ultimately for
final project execution; and (b) build up the capacity of the Government to
continuously identify and manage the preparation of priority investment
projects in all sectors.
12.         Proiect DescriPtion.  To meet these objectives the Project will
comprise the following components: (a) an institutional strengthening
component (US$1.5 H equivalent), in the form of on-the-job training and
technical assistance provided to the MP and the planning units of the
technical ministries; (b) an investment pre2aration component (US$3.6 M
equivalent), in the form of identification work, feasibility studies and
detailed execution plans of projects included in the PIP; and (c) a sectoral
priorities component (US$0.9 M equivalent), in the form of studies to upgrade
the available information on sectoral investment priorities and to develop
sectoral strategies.
13.         Project  ImPlementation.      The  MP  will  have  the  overall
responsibility for the Project. The Project will be implemented through the
Directorate of Planning of the MP and the planning units (Cellules de
programmation et de coordination - CPC) of the technical ministries.   A
Project Management Unit will be established in the Directorate of Planning,
under the responsibility of a Project Manager assisted for two years by an
externally-recruited consultant. A detailed training program developed in
accordance with the frao-m4ork agreed with the Government will be prepared by
consultants hired under financing of Credit 1530-BEN.
14.         Specific efforts have been made to increase the participation of
the local consulting industry in the implementation of the Project, and a
comprehensive survey of local consultants was ezarried out during the
preparation of the Project. Local consultants will be specifically employed
to execute the training program and to produce identification and pre-



- 4 -
feasibility studies. The use of local consultants by foreign firms carrying
out pro-investment work and sectoral studies will be encouraged.
15.         Project implementation will be closely related to the annual and
quarterly reviews of public investment undertaken jointly by the Government
and the Association in cooperation with other donors. The participation of
donors will be essential to avoid overlapping and to reach agreement with the
Government on investment priorities.  The donors' community, particularly
donor agencies represented in Cotonou, will be invited to participate in
annual review meetiigs, complemented by informal consultations held
quarterly.    Thus,  decisions  on modifications  to  the  agreed  list  of
pre-investment work will be taken following the annual major review of the
investment program.  If particular circumstances warrant, modifications may
be made as a result of the quarterly PIP reviews.
16.         Project Design.  The Project is part of a global strategy for
institutional development and strengthening of ministerial entities. The on-
going Technical Assistance Project and a future Economic Management Project
(PAGE) aim at reinforcing the capacities of the Ministry of Finance to
improve revenue collection, at assisting the reforms of the civil service,
and generally, at setting up and implementing adequate procedures for the
current budget.   The proposed Project will complement these efforts by
focusing on the investment process which essentially pertains to the Ministry
of Planning and technical ministries.
17.         In mid-1990,  to  revitalize  the administrative  system,  the
Government introduced new organizational structures in all ministries. In
addition, the Central Project Office (Bureau central des projets - BCP) of
the MP is no longer actively involved in project identification and design.
The CPCs. which replaced the inefficient Directorates of Studies and Planning
of the ministries. are designed to operate within a clear and explicit
framework, eliminating duplication and overlapping with other services in
charge of project execution. They provide the critical linkage with the MP
and are responsible for the formulation of sectoral strategies.
18.         The medium-term framework developed during the preparation of SAL
TI will provide the yardstick against which individual sector strategies will
be assessed.  SAL II will actively pursue the stabilization of the budcit
which should provide for the Government's counterpart contribution to the
PIP, including recurrent costs, thus addressing one of the major constraints
identified in the reviews of the PIP (para. 8). The 1991-1993 PIP stands at
about CFAF 140 billion (US$500 million equivalent).   The total need for
pre-investment work for this program is estimated at US$20 million
equivalent. Of this, the Government's investment budget, various external
sources, on-going projects, etc., partly assure financing.   The European
Development Fund and bilateral donors provide funds for pre-investment work.
For the most part, these funds are restricted to projects expected to be
financed by the respective agencies, and together amount to about
US$3 million per year. The immediate need for pre-investment work for which
financing is not assured is about US$5 million equivalent.
19.         Lessons Learned from Previous ID Involvement.   Lessons learned
during the implementation of the TA Project are similar to those identified
in the OED Report on Free-Standing Technical Assistance for Institutional
Development in Sub-Saharan Africa (Report No. 8573).   Major weaknesses
pertain to (a) the limited impact of training due to the poor selection of



- 5 -
candidates, the low effectiveness of external training and the lack of
continuity in staff assignments; (b) the extensive use of resources for
actions which were not initially projected; and (c) the lack of instruments
to monitor the impact of technical assistance.   In addition, because of
outdated procurement procedures, other 'DA projects in Benin have generally
faced delays in contracting for consulting services.   The Project has
incorporated those lessons by (i) focusing on local seminars and ci-the-job
training of staff selected on agreed criteria; (ii) providing a mechanism for
the annual update and agreement on the list of financed studies, thus
ensuring Government's commitment toward their execution: and (iii) providing
extensive training on the selection of consttltants.
20.         Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed Project has been
requested by the Government which had identified the need for improving the
quality of public investment programming in general and for ensuring better
and closer coordination between the MP and the technical ministries. IDA,
which has taken the lead in the establishment of the PIP process and which is
involved in an active dialogue with the Government in all core economic
sectors,  is uniquely placed to support the Government's efforts.   Tha
proposed Project is a key component of IDA's country assistance strategy.
First, it will support the economic reforms of recent years and help the
Government in its effort to revitalize and reorient the administrative system
as a provider of core services for the development of the private sector and
of basic services to the population. Second, it will provide a selection of
investment opportunities for IDA as well as other donors permitting timely
investment reaction to changing economic conditions. Finally, it will, in
the course of analysis of project implementation capability, identify
additional reforms of institutional or regulatory nature which could improve
investment effectiveness.
21.         Agreed Actions.  During negotiations, agreements were reached
with the Government on (a) framework terms of reference for feasibility work,
and the first list of specific projects and sectoral items to be studied
under the Project; (b) terms of reference for technical assistance to the HP;
(c) the cost limit for projects subject to pre-investment work; (d) annual
reviews and agreements on the program of activities to be financed during the
next year; (e) the establishment by October 31, 1991 of a detailed training
program; (f) reviews of the environmental assessment of proposed investments;
and (g) the review before March 31, 1992 of the proposed status of the
Central Project Office of the MP. Agreements were also reached on conditions
of effectiveness pertaining to the appointment of the Project Manager and the
selection of technical assistance to the Project Manager.
22.         Environmental Aspects.    Tnere  are no  environmenta'l issi-es
directly attached to the Project.   The Project may have significantly
positive  environmental  importance  through  the  nature  and  detailed
specifications of the pre-investment work which it will finance.   All
pre-investment work to be done under the Project will contain a mandatory
environmental assessment both during the feasibility phase and the phase of
preparing detailed execution plans.
23.         Proiect Benefits.   The benefits of the Project consist in
providing the Government with a readily available and flexible tool to
identify, prepare and appraise investment proposals that emerge from the
public investment review process. Moreover, through the sectoral priorities
component, the Project will imprcve the base of knowledge on which the public



- 6 -
investment review process is founded, and thus over time will lead to
increased quality of public investment programs and, ultimately, of
Government expenditures. To the extent that better investment projects are
generated as a result of better preparation, screening and implementation, a
positive impact on the country's long-term economic development will occur.
The execution of studies and of training activities under the Project will
also develop the capacity of the emerging local consulting firms.
24.         Risks.  The risks of the Project are those of the PIP at larges
if public investment programs continue to spring .rom ideas and proposals
which ignore the rational processes that the Project aims to reinforce, the
risk of project failure would increase. However, given the umbrella system
of periodic investment reviews with IDA and the Government's seriousness in
establishing a rational process of project preparation and selecticn and
development of an efficient structure for project planning and management,
this risk is deemed to be minimal.
25.         Recommendation.   I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 1991



-7-
Shedul* A
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PRE-NVWSTiMENT PROJECT
Prolcet Cost Estiates. and Financing Plan
Project Cot Estimt"
----CFAF Mililion ------ ------- US$ Ml I Itoo -------   X of
item                 Local   Forelgn  Total       Local  Foreign  Total   Btse Coot
A. Instltutlonal Strngthening
(a) Training                        8       86       128      0.18    0.81    0.44             ox
(b) Technical Assistace            41       122     102       0.14    0.48       0.58         116
(c) EquIpment                       --       70       70         --    0.26    0.25            6X
Total                    77      278      855       0.20     0.9      1.27         251
B. Inveotment PreDaration            210      602       809      0.75     2.26     8.00         s91
C. Sectoral Priorities                68      168      224       0.20    0.60    0.80          lX
Total Base Cost                      U84     1075     1418       1.28     8.84     5.08        10GX
Physical Contingencis                 84      107      142       0.12     0.88     0.51         10X
Price Continencies                    26       94      120       0.09    0.84      0.48          8X
Total Contingnctes                    60      202      261       0.21    0.72    0.98           18X
Total Proj et Cost                   408     1277    1879        1.44    4.60      6.00        118X
Finoncing Plan
CFAF Millon -   --  ---US illion -------
Coftnanciers             Local   Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign  Total
Government                           19B       --      168       0.80       --    0.60
IDA                                  235     1277    1511        0.84     4.56     6.40
Total                                408     1277     1670       1.44     4.60    8.00
AF1IN
may I1, 1991



Schedule D
REPUBLIC OF BENN
PRE-INNESTUENT PROJECT
Procurement Methods end Olabursem.nt
Amount and Methods of Procurement
(USS millon equivalent)
Item                          IC3      LCB      Other    Total
A. Institutional Strengthening
(a) Training                                 __       __      0.5      0.6
(0.6)    (0.5)
(b) Toeehnical Assistance                    --       --      0.7      0.7
(e) Equipment                                        0.      (0 .6     (0.3)
(0.3)             (0.8)
3. Consulting Services for Sectoral
and Pre-investment Studies                  --       --      4.4      4.4
(4.0)    (4.0)
Total                                          --      0.8      5.7       6.0
(083)    (5 1)    (6.4)
Allocation and Dtsbursement of IDA Crodit
IDA Credit Di7burs_ment       % of Expenditures
Categories       Amount of Credit Allocated        to be  Financed
(SUR mIon)
(1) Consulting Services for:
A. Technical Assistance              0.38                       1005
0. Studies                           2.86                       1oo%
(2)  Trainina                              0.34                        1oo%
(3)  Office Equipment                      0.19                  *OOX of Foreign
and 905 of Local
(4)  Unallocated                            0.84
Total 
Estimated Dlsburements from rDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year. ------
1992     1993     1994     1996
--------- USS Million ---------
Annual          2.0      1.9       1.2      0.2
Cumulative      2.0      4.0      6.2       6.4
AFIN
May 81, 1991



Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF DENIN
PRE-V4VESTUENT PROJECT
TImetole  NYW Pf_Oet PEeene EMe
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                       SIx months
(b)   Prepared by:                                 Government, Consul-
tant, and IDA
(c)   First IDA mission:                           December    1989
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:                 June         1990
(e)   Negotiations                                 May          1991
(f)   Plannod Date of Effectiveness:               September   1991
(g)   List of relevant PCR. and PPARe:             None
AFIIN
May St, 1991



- 10 -
REPUBLIC OW DBENIN                   rage
PE-INVYTUMENT PRDJECT
,THE STATUS           ,DENIN
Amount In US8 million
(les cancel lotions)
Lo.a or     Fiscal                                                   Undi-  Closing
Credit No.    Yea  Borrower           Purpose             Bank  IDA  bursed   Osto
Credits
26 Credite closod                                            211.04
C1140-4EN   1988 REPUBLIC OF BENIN RURAL DEVt III            20.00  8.42   12/81/91(R)
CISOSO-EN   1984 REPUBLIC OF DENM  OIL II DEV PROJECT         18.00    .8   02/28/91 R
ClCBOO-EN   1905 REPUBLIC OF BEBEN  TEC*ICAL ASSSTACE         6.00  2.86   08/81/92R
C17210-eEN   186 REPUBLIC OF DENIN WATER II                   10.00  5.42   12/81/98
C174e0-EN   1987 REPUBLIC Of ENIN PULIC ENTERPRISES          15.00 13.74   06/80/96
C19070-8EN   1987 REPUBUC OF BENIN  TRANSPORT 1NRA            19.50  11.64  08/81/95
C18770-BEN   1988 REPUBLIC OF BENIN BROU RUR. DEV.            21.00  5.27   12/81/92
C19OO-BEN   1989 REPUBLIC OF DENIN TELECOIMUNICATIONS         16.00 11.42   12/81/98
C20810-SEN  1989 REPUBUC OF BENIN HEALTH SERVICES DEV         10.60  14 89  09/80/97
C20880DEN   1990 REPUBLIC OF BENIN RURAL CREDIT                2.60  1 97  12/81/95
TOTAL number Crodit. a  10                                       145.60 70.46
TOTAL***                                         867.24
of which repaid                                 14.95
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                         842.29
Amount sold
of which repald
TOTAL undisbursd                                        SAM
Note:
* Not yet offectIvo
Nc Not yet sIgned
ss. Total approvod, Repayments,  nd Outstanding balance rpresent both active and Inactive Loans
and Credit.
(RI ndicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repaymnts are historical valuo, *al others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing date. are based upon the Loan Department official date and
are not taken from the Task Budget fIle.
B. LIST OF CLOSE S. AND SEALS
Amount In US$ millon
(loes cancel lIatons)
Loan or     Fiscal                                                   Undis-  Closing
Credit No.    Y"r Borrower                    Purpose     Dank  IDA  bursed   Date
C20280-BEN   1989 REPUBLIC OF BENIN  SAL I                    45.00   .00  12/81/90(R)
TOTAL Republic of Benin                                           45,00   .00



- 11 -
Schedul I
Prage 2 of I
C. 8twn oF as _
(as of Martch list a)
NONE



- 12 -
TECUNICAL ANNEX TO THE ND(ORANDUH AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
FOR A PU-INVESTMENT PROJECT
SECTION As DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1.          The main objectives in establishing a rational public investment
program are to (a) ensure consistency of the program with the Government's
development strategy, macroeconomic forecasts and resource availability;
(b) ensure adequate identification and preparation of projects; and (c) set
up project implementation and monitoring procedures, including the
establishment of sound contracting procedures.   Progress was achieved in
Benin during the execution of SAL I and of the Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1530-BEN) with the adoption of a three-year rolling public investment
program (PIP). A number of implementation issues remained, however, to be
addressed, as identified in the past reviews of the PIP.
2.          Lessons from the PIP Exercise.  The reviews which took place in
1989 and 1990, concluded that: (a) the portion of the PIP agreed with IDA
could not be executed as planned because Government counterpart funding was
insufficient, while the accumulation of arrears to a number of foreign donors
resulted in a freeze of disbursements to important development projects;
(b) the deposits of public enterprises and local government agencies frozen
in the defunct banking system could not be drawn upon to finance their
investment expenditures; (c) an appreciable level of non-programmed
investment expenditures was registered in 1989 and 1990, reflecting continued
weaknesses in investment programming; (d) a number of projects were proposed
to be included in the PIP without indication of their justification; and
(e) there is room for additional public investments in Benin consistent with
a viable macroeconomic framework program, provided that these carry an
acceptable rate of return and are realistic in terms of the absorptive
capacity of the relevant sectors. An immediate bottleneck on the volume of
public investments is the dearth of properly justified and prepared invest-
ment project plans.
3.          Institutional Issues.  The uncoordinated development of public
institutions in Benin led to the juxtaposition of directorates and services
in the Hinistry of Planning (MP) and the technical ministries with
overlapping and conflicting assignments. The allocation of responsibilities
at the various stages of the project cycle and in the programming of public
investments was particularly confusing. Through its Central Project Office
(BCP), the MP was expected to play a major role in project design, which was
incompatible with its key function as the ultimate authority for selecting
projects. Conversely, the MP was often by-passed by the technical ministries
and other public institutions in their efforts to promote project ideas and
to advance them to the financing stage.
4.          In mid-1990 the Government decided to abolish the then existing
Directorates of Studies and Planning (DEP) in the technical ministries and in
the HP were abolished. These directorates had gradually lost their focus on
objective investment planning and had become vehicles for undisciplined
investment decisions.   New organizational  structures  for the planning
function were established in December 1990 as planning units (cellules de
programmation et  coordination - CPCs)  attached to the cabinets of each



- 13 _
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 2 of 7
minister.  The intention is to keep the structures modest in size but to
secure at once a working link between the technical ministries and the MP, so
that the public investment program could evolve in iteration from the desires
and constraints of all ministries involved, within the framework of the
agreed PIP. The heads of the CPCs were selected in May 1991 among the staff
of the MP previously in charge of monitoring the various sectors.
5.          The decree  creating  the CPCs  clarified the  allocation of
responsibilities in the project cycle by separating the functions of the
technical services in charge of project identification--which are the ones
which would be in charge of the execution--from the screening function
attributed to the CPC. The initiation and coordination of sectoral studies,
as well as the formulation of sectoral strategies are the responsibility of
the CPCs.
6.          The BCP of the MP has not yet been touched by the reorganization.
This bureau was originally created as a central investment project design
office, staffed by MP employees and having a monopoly on investment design
work. It has never been able to meaningfully fulfill this function, since
the expertise required is out of reach of a Government bureau staffed with
limited technical expertise and experience.   Improvement of the planning
entities in the various ministries will further reduce the rationale for the
existence of the BCP. A general audit of the organization of the MP is
scheduled in 1992 and would be one of the conditions for tranche release of
SAL II. In that context, a review of the proposed status of the BCP will
take place before the end of March 1992 and it was agreed during negotiations
that the BCP would not be involved in the activities of the Project.
7.          The country's consulting industry carries more potential for
supporting the revitalization of the economy than does the concentration of
investment preparation capacity in the BCP or other governmental agencies.
In July-August 1990, a survey of the existing consulting capacity identified
59 firms.   Their expertise is available in such branches as auditing,
training, architecture, urban planning and land survey, as well as in
economic studies and technical advisory services, with the exception of the
most complex and technologically advanced fields. Increasing the role of
local consultants would be beneficial to the internalization of the processes
of investment planning and preparation.
8.          Donors' Involvement.  Given the financial constraints facing the
Government and the existing debt service burden, more than 90 percent of the
public investment program is expected to continue to be financed by external
grants and highly coacessional loans. Therefore, the PIP reviews cannot be
limited to a dialogue between the Government and IDA, without due
consideration being given to inputs by other donors. Informal consultation
with the donors' community has already taken place. The vast majority of
donors consider a project's inclusion in the PIP to be an absolute
prerequisite to its candidacy for financing. Some donors, however, may be so
exclusively preoccupied with this criterion that they may overlook the
project's merits. Thus, a number of projects proposed to be included in the



- 14 -
TECEICAL AMX
Page 3 of 7
PIP with indication of external funding still lack minimal identification and
justification.
9.          The UNDP assists the MP in establishing data bases (Project
BE0I87/023) but does not provide support to the formulation and preparation
of concrete investment proposals for evaluation by potential investment
agencies. The European Development Fund, GTZ of Germany, and the French FAC
provide funds for pre-investment work. For the most part, these funds are
restricted to projects expected to be financed by the respective donors, and
together amount to about US$3 M equivalent per year.
10.         The issues and constraints listed above, as well as the lack of
financing for adequately identifying and preparing projects, are sufficiently
severe to justify a free-standing operation comprising: (a) an institutional
strengthening component that will include on-the-job training and technical
assisLance provided to a more streamlined MP and to the planning units of the
technical ministries; (b) an investment preparation component, in the form of
identification work, feasibility studies and detailed execution plans of
projects included in the PIP; and (c) a sectoral priorities component, in the
form of studies to supplement present knowledge of sectoral investment
priorities and to help formulate sectoral strategies.
Detailed Project Description
11.         Institutional Strengthening.  The clarification of institutional
responsibilities and the development of the programming function in every
technical ministry are essential starting points. At the level of technical
ministries, the planning units need to (a) have competent and dedicated
staff, small in number, but of high professional qualifications; (b) be the
depositories of comprehensive sectoral knowledge in their respective fields,
so as to be able to rank investment proposals according to their merits of
priority within the sector; and (c) be able to provide the inception,
management, monitoring and evaluation of studies of individual investment
proposals in their sectors, all according to criteria that permit comparative
judgments between investment proposals within each sector and between
different sectors.
12.         The training program will cover both technical and project
management aspects. To ensure a broad coverage, it will mainly consist of
local workshops and seminars carried out by technical assistance and locally
available expertise. Two categories of seminars have been identifieds (a)
seminars designed for the general audience involved in the activities of the
Project; and (b) seminars designed for the staff of specific sectoral
ministries and executing agencies (public utilities) and their counterpart in
the MP. General seminars--in addition to the Project Launch Workshop--will
focus on the project cycle (including programming and monitoring), the
internalization of the macroeconomic framework and the selection of
consultants.   Specific seminars will focus on design criteria and project
criteria, environmental assessments and the elaboration of sectoral
strategies. Training workshops will also be available to local consultants.
Long-term training and external training will be the exception rather than
the rule. A detailed training program will be submitted to the Association



- 15 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 4 of 7
by October 31, 1991, and will include the identification of candidates
selected according to criteria agreed between the Government and IDA.  To
ensure that this deadline is achieved, consultants will be hired under
financing of Credit 1530-BEN so as to expedite preparation of the training
program and consultants' selection. Thus, training and technical assistance
activities would start at Project inception.
13.         Investment Preparation.   The investment preparation component
will bring investment ideas from the stage of preliminary identification up
to the stage of fully prepared, coated and justified execution plans. To
span this part of the project cycle, the Project will provide consulting
services to carry out project identification work, feasibility studies and,
if warranted, detailed project execution plans. Local consulting firms will
be encouraged to participate in the preparation of these studies.   The
component will, as a rule, deal only with investments larger than US$1.0 M
equivalent; however, project ideas for which the cost is estimated to be
lower may be included by specific agreement between the Government and the
Association.
14.         The identification and selection of project ideas for inclusion
in the PIP will be improved through training and technical assistance
provided under the first component, and through the participation of local
consultants. Their participation will be cost-effective and beneficial to
the promotion of the local consulting industry, as this type of short-term
assignment is not likely to attract foreign firms.
15.         Once included in the PIP, as updated annually, selected projects
would be subjected to feasibility studies, the main objectives of which would
be to (a) confirm the priority of the proposed investment within agreed
sectoral development plans; (b) establish preliminary estimates of required
inputs into execution of the proposed projects over their lifetimes, in
physical, financial and managerial terms; (c) provide an assessment of the
capacity of the relevant public and private institutions in Benin to
effectively participate in the execution of the proposed projects; and
(d) estimate the priority of the proposed projects in relation to the overall
needs of the Beninese economy. Key elements of the terms of reference for
feasibility work are given  in Appendix A.   They include  the generic
objectives of feasibility studies and provisions for the mandatory agreement
on project criteria and design criteria and for the participation of local
consultants. A first list of selected items for immediate study under the
investment preparation component was agreed with the Government during
negotiazions and is given in Appendix B.
16.         The preparation of final project execution plans would be
undertaken only when the feasibility of the proposed investment, including
the absorptive capacity of the relevant sector or sectors, has been
confirmed, and when the financing plan for the investment is substantially
assured on terms and conditions conforming to those applicable to the PIP.



- 16 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Page 5 of 7
17.         Sectoral Priorities.   The sectoral priorities component will
allow (a) the allocation of resources between sectors to be determined with
an improved perspective of the overall economic consequences of the various
sectoral strategies; and (b) investment decisions within each sector to be
taken in full knowledge of the absolute and relative economic costs and
benefits thereof. The component will complement the UNDP-financed technical
assistance program (para. 9) which aims at setting up data bases on
macroeconomic (national accounts, external trade, employment) and sectoral
statistics (education, agriculture and informal sector activities), critical
to the monitoring of the adjustment process and the elaboration of sectoral
knowledge. The component will assist the CPCs in the technical ministries
and  the  MP  by  providing  funding  for specific  sector  studies.    The
establishment of sectoral priorities will be an evolving process and is
indeed contingent on the implementation of the structural adjustment program,
as well as on the progress of the policy dialogue in key areas such as
agriculture, infrastructure and education.  A list of items selected for
immediate study was agreed with the Government during negotiations and is
given in Appendix B.
Implementation
18.         The MP, through its Directorate of Plan, will be responsible for
the implementation of the Project. In order to ensure the operation's
sustainability once it is launched, the appointment of a competent local
executive as Project Manager will be a condition of effectiveness.   The
Project will be implemented as follows:
(a) The institutional strengthening component will consist of technical
assistance, training and supply of office equipment.   The Project
Manager will be assisted for two years by a consultant specializing in
project screening and formulation. His terms of reference are given
in Appendix C.   The selection of the consultant will also be a
condition of effectiveness. He will: (a) help in the formulation of
pre-investment and sectoral studies financed under the Project and in
the selection of consultants hired to carry out these studies; (b)
actively participate in the implementation of the detailed training
program; and (c) support the Project Manager in the management and
supervision of project activities.
(b) The investment preparation component will consist of pre-investment
work subcontracted to international and local consulting firms or
individuals, academic institutions or other organizations capable of
undertaking such work. The sectoral ministries concerned and their
executing agencies will select the subjects of pre-investment work
among the projects identified in the PIP or among propositions which
fit within the sectoral development strategy, with the agreement of
the MP.   The relevant sectoral ministry or agency will also be
responsible for the establishment of detailed terms of reference and
contractual documents, evaluation of bids and proposals, contract
award, administration and supervision, and subsequent evaluation of
the quality of work performed.



- 17 -
TECHNICAL AMX
Page 6 of 7
(c) The sectoral priorities component will consist of separate studies
carried out by contract.   As will be the case for the investment
preparation component, the sectoral ministry or agency involved will
be responsible for identifying the area, scope and cost of training
and supplementary studies, and for obtaining the agreement of the MP
for including the identified elements in the Project.
SECTION Bs PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSIE1MT
Project Costs
19.         The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$6 M equivalent
(net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of 25 percent.
An indicative distribution of the costs of the Project over individual items
is given in Schedule A. The cost of consulting services has been estimated
at about US$12,000 per month. The costs are based on April 1990 prices, and
on the observed cost of obtaining similar services of satisfactory quality in
Benin and neighboring countries. Excluding the technical assistant to the
Project Manager, who will be hired for two years, the amount of consultant
services to be financed under the Project is estimated at about 240 man-
months. Physical contingencies of 10 percent, price escalation contingencies
of 3.4 percent p.a. for foreign exchange and of 3 percent in 1991 and 2.5
percent thereafter for local exchange, have been applied.
Project Pinancing
20.         An IDA credit of SDR 4.1 million (US$5.4 M equivalent) will be
provided towards financing 90 percent of the total cost of the Project. The
Government will contribute US$0.6 M equivalent to finance about 40 percent of
the local costs or 10 percent of total costs, including local salaries for
counterparts, office space, logistics support and communication costs. The
Government will bear the cost of any taxes and duties on imported goods and
services.
Procurement
21.         All procurement under the Project, with the exception of a
limited part devoted to the supply of office equipment, will be of consulting
services, training, or technical assistance, and will be in accordance with
Bank guidelines. All terms of reference, letters of invitation, short lists
of firms or individual consultants, work specifications, draft contracts, and
contract packages will be subject to prior IDA review. All contracts for
procurement of equipment are expected to be below US$200,000 and procurement
will therefore be based on LCB procedures, according to the World Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement. To the extent possible, items will be packaged in
lots of US$50,000 or more.   Post-award procurement documentation for all
contracts will be forwarded to IDA, as set out in the guidelines, prior to
disbursements.   Amounts  and methods  of procurement  are  summarized  in
Schedule B.



- 18 .
TEC8NICAL ANNEX
Page 7 of 7
Disbursements
22.         Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation.
For expenditures on purchase orders and contracts not exceeding US$20,000,
disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. The
proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed against expenditures as followst 100
percent of expenditures for training, technical assistance and consulting
services, 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expenditures for
office equipment. In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available
to finance the costs of services and goods to be procured under the Project,
the Government will establish a separate Special Account in a commercial
bank. An initial deposit of CFAF 56 million (US$200,000 equivalent) covering
four months of eligible expenditures will be made from the credit account.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is set out in Schedule B. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by December 31, 1994, with the closing
date scheduled for June 30, 1995.
Accounting, Auditing and Reportiug
23.         The Project Management Unit will maintain separate accounts for
the Credit and keep documentation relevant for all disbursements against
SOEs, to be made available to IDA supervision missions for inspection.  All
records and accounts pertaining to the Project will, for each of the
Government's fiscal years, be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association and the audit reports will be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.
24.         Project  implementation  will  be  regularly  reviewed  by  the
Government and IDA, with the Resident Mission taking a leading role, both to
monitor the Project and to permit the progress of individual project
components to be taken into account in the regular revisions of the PIP. The
MP, with the assistance of the sectoral ministries concerned and their
subcontractors will be charged with reporting on project progress.  These
reports will be prepared quarterly, will cover project implementation and
expenditures, and will contain key indicators for monitoring the progress of
the Project.   The programs of activities for the subsequent year will be
agreed between the Government and IDA by October of each year. The reporting
requirements are given in greater detail in Appendix D together with the
implementation schedule and the required Bank input into project supervision.
This report Is based on the fIndings of an appraisal mission consisting of Snorri HNllgrimeson
(AFPIN) and Kurt Sorensen (consultant), who visited Benin in July 1990. Richard Verepyck (AFlIN)
is the Task Manager. Peer reviewers were Poter Morrls and Eduardo Locate111. Albert* Hearh
(AF1IN) and Michael J. Gillette) are the managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively.
AF1IN
May 31, 1991



_ 19 _
TECMNICAL ANNE
Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
Key Elements of the Terms of Referenc6 for Feasibility Work
A. Pre.paration of the Tee&es of Reference
1.          The feasibility studies financed under the Project will be
carried out by consultants under the responsibility of the maltres d'ouvrage
d4l4pues (the technical ministry concerned if it is also in charge of the
execution of the contemplated project, or the relevant executing agency).
The latter are responsible for preparing the terms of reference, for
selecting consultants and for supervising and monitoring the execution of the
studies.   The draft terms of reference will be cleared with the Project
Management Unit in the Directorate of Planning and will be submitted to IDA
for review.
2.          Feasibility work will exclusively concern (a) projects included
in the PIP; or (b) projects proposed for inclusion in the PIP, provided that
identification work previously carried out has established they are
consistent with the development strategy of the relevant sector.  Unless
explicitly agreed with IDA, feasibility studies will only pertain to
investment proposals estimated to cost more than US$1 million equivalent.
B. Generic Objectives of Feasibility Studies
3.          The detailed terms of reference,  tailored to the specific
requirements of the investment examined, have to spell out the following
generic objectives:
(a) to confirm the priority of the investment proposal within agreed
sectoral development plans;
(b) to establish preliminary estimates of required inputs into execution
of the investment proposal over its lifetime, in physical, financial
(including recurrent costs) and managerial terms;
(c) to provide an assessment of the capacity of the relevant public and
private institutions in Benin to effectively participate in the
execution of the investment proposal; and
(d) to estimate the priority of the investment proposal in relation to the
overall needs of the Beninese economy.
C. Criteria
4.          The terms of reference have to indicate the specific investment
criteria used in the selection of projects of the relevant sector. The time
schedule of the tasks to be performed will provide for a preliminary stage
during which the consultants have to obtain the agreement of the responsible
ministry or executing agency on the design standards, design criteria and



- 20 -
TECHNICAL ANNX
Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
project criteria to be used in further work and analyses. These standards
and criteria will be conveyed to IDA.
D. Participation of Local Conoultant
S.          It is IDA's policy to encourage and foster the development of
domestic consulting  firms.    Invited foreign consulting  firms will be
encouraged to secure the participation of qualified local consultants,
provided that the former agree to assume contractual responsibility for
satisfactory execution of the assignment. If local expertise is identified,
the letter of invitation may specify that such participation of local firms
will be taken into account in the evaluation of proposals (with a weight not
exceeding 5 percent).
AFlIN
May 31, 1991



- 21 -
TECHNICAL ANNEM
Appendix B
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
List of Selected Studies
I. Pre-investment Studies
Study of priority needs for feeder roads
Feasibility study of the Cotonou Access Roads coordination of the drainage
and road construction wvorks
Feasibility study of the upgrading of the Cotonou-Porto Novo road link
Study of the valorization of the lime and marble producing units
Porto Novo drainage and sanitation: strategic development plan and
identification of priority works
Identification of eligible secondary urban centers likely to benefit from a
labor-intensive urban works program
IT. Sectoral Studies
--In the Rural Development Sector
Support to the Development of the Private Sector:
Development potential of high value-alded crops (fruits, market-
gardening and processing industries);
Study of the animal husbandry subsector in view of the reorganization
of concerned activities (breeders and farmers, wholesalers, markets,
slaughterhouses, storage and sanitary control);
Survey of the circulation of monetary and financial assets in rural
areas;
Preparation of a national program for the promotion of small and
medium enterprises and processing plants for agricultural products.



- 22 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Appendix 8
Page 2 of 2
--In the Industrial Sector
Identification of the potential of phosphate mining
Support to the formulation of the Energy strategy
--In the Infrastructure Sector
Transport facilitation in the Beninese Corridor
--In the Urban Sector
Review of capital financing mechanisms for land development (infrastructure
and housing), including identification of and support to the private sector
--In the Tourism Sector
Market studies and identification of support to the development of the
tourism industry
--General Plannin2 Studies
Perspectives 2000: formulation of a spatial investment strategy
AllIN
May 31, 1991



- 23 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Appendix C
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC rC BENIN
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference of the Technical Assistance to the Directorate of Plan
A. Introduction
1.          The Government of Benin is implementing a Pre-investment Project.
with assistance from the World Bank, to relieve the constraints stemming from
the lack of adequately prepared public investment projects and to gradually
develop capabilities of public institutions to identify and process priority
investments consistent with the various sectoral development strategies and
the macroeconomic framework.
2.          To meet these objectives the Project comprises the following com-
ponents: (a) an institutional strengthening component in the form of
on-the-job training, technical assistance and supply of office equipment
provided to the Ministry of Planning (MP) and the planning units of the
technical ministries; (b) an investment preparation component in the form of
identification work, feasibility studies and detailed execution plans of
projects included in the public investment program; and (c) a sectoral
priorities component in the form of studies to supplement present knowledge
of sectoral investment priorities and to develop sectoral strategies.
3.          The responsibilities  and roles of the various  institutions
involved in the project cycle in Benin were reallocated and clarified prior
to the start-up of the Pre-investment Project.   In that context,  the
Government has established planning units (CPCs) in all technical ministries
in order to ensure a continuous dialogue between the departments and
executing  agencies  (maitres  d'ouvrage  delegues)  in  charge  of  the
identification and execution of public investments and the MP, which is,
inter alia, responsible for preparing the three-year rolling public
investment program (PIP).
B. Work Assignment
4.          The Pre-investment Project  is executed by the Ministry of
Planning. A Project Manager in the Directorate of Planning of the MP has
been nominated. This annex sets out the terms of reference of the required
technical assistance, for which one consultant is being recruited for a
period of two years. The consultant will carry out his assignment under the
Project Manager in the Project Management Unit which includes
C. Scope of Assignment
5.          The consultant will:  (a) help  in the  formulation  of pre-
investment and sectoral studies and in the selection of consultants hired to
carry out these studies; (b) actively participate in the implementation of
the detailed training program; and (c) support the Project Manager in the
management and supervision of project activities.



- 24 .
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Appendix C
Page 2 of 2
6.          Definition  of Studies  and  Selection  of Consultants.    The
consultant will, as needed, participate in the formulation of the terms of
reference of the studies carried out under the Pre-investment Project. He
will, in any case, ensure that they are consistent with the framework agreed
with IDA and participate in the drafting of the letters of invitation. He
will assist the Project Management Unit in rsiewing Ca) the evaluation
reports of proposals prepared by the maltre d'ouvrage del6gud in charge of
the study; and (b) draft contracts of the consultants.
7.          Training Activities.   In close coordination with specialized
trainers, the consultant will prepare and participate in the workshops and
seminars held in Cotonou and directed toward a general audience or toward the
staff concerned in a specific sector.  The general workshops and seminars
will pertain to: (a) the objectives and implementation of the Pre-investment
Project (Project Launch Workshop); (b) investment programming and the project
cycle; (c) the macroeconomic framework and the impact of public investments;
and (d) procedures for the selection of consultants.   Specific seminars,
directed toward the staff of the technical ministries and executing agencies
and toward the staff of the MP in charge of a given sector, will pertain to
investment criteria and project design criteria, as well as to the
formulation and implementation of sectoral strategies.
S.          Proiect ManaRement.   Under the general responsibility of the
Project Manager, the consultant will participate in the delivery of:
(a) project accounts and documentation related to the preparation and
justification of the withdrawal applications, the statements of expenditures
and the management of the Special Account; (b) the annual budget required for
the programming of project activities; and tc) periodic progress reports.
The consultant will ensure that these documents conform to the formats and
provisions of the Credit Agreement and with IDA procedures. He will also
help the Project Manager and the maltres d'ouvrase del4gu4s to monitor and
assess the performance of consultants.
D. Qualifications
9.          The  consultant  should  be  an  economist  with  an  extensive
experience in the selection of public investments and in the programming and
monitoring of projects in developing countries.   He shoulds  (a) possess
excellent  communication  skills  in  both  oral  and  written  French;
(b) demonstrate his capacities to lead and coordinate cross-sectoral teams;
and (c) provide convincing references in training activities performed in a
context similar to the one retained for the Pre-investment Project.  Working
knowledge of the World Bank guidelines for the use of consultants is
required.   Previous experience  in project management  in a World Bank
environment would be an advantage.
AFlIN
May 31, 1991



- 25 -
TECHNICAL ABNNX
Appendix D
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PRE-INVESTMENT PROJECT
Reporting Requirements, Supervision Plan and Dmplementation Schedule
A. Reporting Requirements
1.          ObJectives.  The Project's execution w$il  be monitored to:
(a) record the progress of the project itself against the implementation
schedule, identifying any corrective actions that may be required in
respect of individual components;
(b) monitor the consistency between the Government's Public Investment
Program (PIP) and the content of the Project, and present proposals
for such modifications in Project content as may be warranted througn
changes introduced in the PIP; and
(c) identify any changes in the scope, content or timing of any items in
the PIP, caused by findings, analyses or progress in time of individ-
ual Project items.
2.          Preparation.  Reporting on progress of the Project is the primary
responsibility of the Project Manager with the support of all CPCs involved
and of the Directorate of Plan of the MP.   The audience of the reports
comprises all sectoral ministries, all public entities involved in project
components being dealt with in the report, and the donors' community, as well
as Non-Governmental Organizations with an interest in any project component.
The reports will be prepared quarterly and transmitted to the audience at
least two weeks before the quarterly review of the PIP.  In addition, an
annual report must be prepared before the end of October of each year to
review the activities of the past twelve months and to propose the program of
activities for the next twelve-month period.
3.          Format and Contents. The quarterly progress report will comprise
four parts:
(a) a financial section recapitulating project expenditures, including in
particular (i) a summary of the local contribution, of the withdrawal
applications and of the statement of expenditures along with the
situation of the Special Account; and (ii) a detailed account of the
Project's commitments and payments under each individual contract;
(b) a section assessing the progress of each of the programmed studies by
reference to the implementation schedule;
(c) an evaluation of the progress in implementing the training program.
This section will include the records of the workshops and seminars
held during the previous quarter, along with their evaluation by the
participants; and



- 26 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Appendix D
Page 2 of 2
td) comments on the points mentioned in para. 1 (b) and (c).
4.          The annual report will include, in addition to the summary of the
progress reports, fully justified proposals for updating the lists of
studies, and the detailed budget of project activities for the following
twelve months.
B. Supervision Plan
5.          Bank Supervision input into Key Activities.  Bank supervision
will need, in addition to the regular supervision tasks, the involvement of
country team members for reviewing the studies included in the Project, as
vell as the active participation of the resident mission, particularly to
ensure donors' cooperation and coordination. This is estimated to require
14 staff weeks during the first project year, 12 staff weeks during the
following two years and 10 staff weeks thereafter. The detailed Supervision
Plan is given in Attachment A.
6.          Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted at the end of January, April.
July, and October of each year (at least two weeks before the
quarterly review of the PIP).
(b) Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Plan.   Review meetings with the participation of the
various project agencies will be held normally in mid-October of each
year.
(c) The Ministry of Plan will be responsible for coordinating arrangements
for Bank supervision missions, and for providing information required
by missions.
C. Implementation Schedule
7.          Preamble.  The selection of the Project Manager and of Technical
Assistance must be completed before Credit Effectiveness.
8.          Prolect  Implementation.    The time  schedule of the various
components of the Project is given in Attachment B.
AFIIN
May 31, 1991



.27-                         TECHNICAL ANNEX
AQpssdx D
Afttdachzm A
SUPERVIION PLAN
Bank Supord   tlm     t W Key Asdes
74/91        Review of stafg of PMU nd            Reint MIsin                           1.0
eeon of TA
10-11/91      Sspwwhn M _in                        eonomis                              3.0
(Prj3ect Launcb Wozkhop sad         Prourama
rview of Taining  Eogm)             TUinin
Raidet Misbn
11-12/91      Assist in prpaaton of erms of        Economi                              3.0
reference Nd LOI                    Ura  nd Tnsport
2-3/92       Supewbiue  Msu                       Eccunomic                             3.0
(to reviw, UAW ails pos  on         U*ra ad Tansport
ute stw    of Cent  Prjec           Eng4ing
Office and prepue sminan            Reidet Mission
infrastzuaw proec)
9-10/92       Supo    Mbsbo                      BEonmis                                3.0
(to coincide with preparan of       Ura and Tansot
annual progm    of actvie an of     -n nI
the coordinaton neetig wih          Redent Mission
donors)
10/92           iciparon in coordiao             Resident Msn                          1.0
11-12/92      Review of terms of reec   o the      Economia                             2.0
second cyb of stdi                  Ubn Nd Trnsport
6-7/93       Supvo Mbson.                         Reden Miso                           2.0
(to mv ie     _oampleme on of       TraininS
Trainin Progm)
9-10193       Sup     sn MIsin                     Economis                             3.0
(to coine with peparation of        Urba and Tnsot
uanual prgm of ativite and of       Eg
coordinton mcetig wt donors)        Rdnt Mission
10/93        Pua on in coonafion                 Raidet Mision                         1.0
1994         Two SupVo Mon                       Ecm                                  5.0
Resident Misdion
1995         SuprvIsIo MIsbo                     Economics                            3.0
(to prpae PCR)                      Reident Mission



Raj=U OP BENI
PRE-INVENT POIC
Inml    aIou Schedule (Septebr 1291-Auis 1993)
Ymom=              : 019110119 Lj                                            I" 
K  WT=E1ONL S1EGfNN
Pwie cy W 
a. m    F _                        a_Gm                                       maaa                                   m
Oemaui" Awadma
mako .332UU
*1rcCycl                                      -a
PiprImcTcdrDwmI __*___
Came Aad ah_ S                                   e-ueln
C. IU4NVffT I_. . . STUDIES
Iciwe     SW InviWia.
*Cych3 
C                          - 2                                                                                      _
QO bI _OM  gb-                        ~        
REI!O                                                              f hvdE
C_gce- a_r and      " dph                            -



lR1PUBItC OF BN
lElli-nam5mm PRORC
Imptem~Sceftk           6     1993-Dember 1-7740
MONTHS               o9A 9IIV9: 011o4I                         94 0911111132B
A. NSTITUITOAL SFRENGT
1. Tech  A_22
2. Ta*
Macro Fiunwo}k
. Sdeetin Of couuu
Specific SOel na                                                         -
3. Sun,! of Office -Eaniubmu
P'Iof Tesr D          _
Co=t ac Awrd and SIgni
Ddiiyq and bistlicln
IL PRINWEESTAM SfIES                                                                                                               t
TMe Of efernce
LEtte of invitatio
Coontat aw  and _t
.CycteI
* yce2                        00000000000000
.I             .
C. SCTORAL m DIDS
Tam of rer_ae
Ltte of n_Atio
Cont awad and s   g
Execudoac
QImtedy tOgNgRepxtSQQQ                                                                                                     I
Amauiallgmm of Actviie andludoge  -Y                                                         Y 
-       h -aauIJms    0  0   .xc do



