Report No. PID10629
Project Name                     Russian Federation-Fiscal Federalism ...   @
& Regional Fiscal Reform
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       RUPE50489
Borrower(s)                      GOVT OF RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Implementing Agency
Address
Ministry of Finance
Address: ul. Ilyinka, 9, Moscow,
103097, Russia
Contact Person: Alexei Lavrov
Tel: 7-095-792-3011; 7-095-205-5255
Fax:7-095-913-4335
Email: p0026_La@Minfin.ru
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 14,2002
Projected Appraisal Date         November 9, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 29, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations and strengthening of
fiscal policy and budgetary management at the regional level is an
important part of the Government's economic reform program. Some 52
percent of consolidated budgetary expenditures take place at the
subnational level, including key social sector expenditures. Issues that
have persisted in intergovernmental and regional finance include: unfunded
mandates to regional and lower levels of Government, continued lack of
clarity over expenditure responsibilities for different levels of
government, insufficient tax autonomy at lower levels of government,
unpredictable and often politically driven allocation of transfers, and an
inadequate regulatory framework for and monitoring of subnational
borrowing.The existing system has led to a volatile and non-transparent
environment for subnational fiscal management. The lack of clarity in
fiscal responsibilities, unstable transfers, and poor accountability have
created strong disincentives for sound fiscal management and regional and
local fiscal reform. As a result, many subnational governments suffer from
weak fiscal management leading to accumulated arrears, and in some cases,
defaults on their debt obligations. Circumventing federal legislation at
the regional level has also become widespread in recent years. In this
environment, many regional authorities have generally been reluctant to
make their budgets transparent and to upgrade their fiscal management
practices.The Government has taken steps to try to address these issues at
the Federal level. In 1994, it created a formula-based transfer for
financial support for the regions in order to make the process of
allocation of transfers for equalization more transparent and
predictable. While this was a step in the right direction, the system did



not work as well as hoped. In 1998 the Government adopted the Concept of
Reform of Inter-Government Fiscal Relations in the Russian Federation for
1999-2001, which was created and has been managed by a special interagency
working group. The Concept laid out a three year strategy for the reform
of intergovernmental finance with the following main components: i)
delineation of expenditure power and responsibilities between bodies of
power and administration at different levels of Government, ii) assignment
of revenues to various levels of the budget system, iii) development of
the Fund for Financial Support of the Regions to support equalization, and
iv) investment support for regional development. As part of this program,
draft amendments to the Budget Code on expenditure assignment have been
prepared and the formula that is the basis for the Fund for Financial
Support to the Regions has been significantly improved. The new
Government, appointed in May 2000, has included reforms in the system of
fiscal federalism and strengthening of regional fiscal management as
components of its overall program of reforms. It has continued to carry
out the measures incorporated in the Concept of Reform of
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations in the Russian Federation, 1999-2001
and in May 2001 approved a new agenda covering the years 2002-2005. It
also has been developing a regional fiscal reform program.The objectives
of the Government's on-going reform with respect to fiscal federalism
efforts are threefold:n Economic efficiency. Provision of long-term
institutional incentives for regional authorities to carry out structural
reforms, maintenance of a competitive environment and a favorable
investment and business climate.n Budget accountability. Management of
public finance on behalf and in the interests of the population, with
efficient use of tax and other resources, transparency and accountability
of fiscal policy.n Social equity. Maintenance of equal access of the
citizens throughout the Russian Federation to public services and social
guarantees.The specific elements of the reform strategy for fiscal
federalism are as follows:n Providing subnational authorities with real
expenditure powers balanced with the available financial resources is a
key task.n Providing more autonomous taxation powers to regional
governments which in the short term include: assigning 100 percent of
personal income tax receipts to the consolidated regional budgets; and
providing each level of government with a significant tax source over
which it has autonomy to set the rate (within agreed upon parameters).n
Providing financial assistance to regions and budget equalization through:
Maintenance of a transparent methodology for equalization; Creation of the
Compensation Fund in order to provide targeted financing for Federal
mandates; Creation of the Co-financing Fund in order to provide limited
co-financing of expenditures of subnational budgets on social policy,
education and public health; and creation of the Regional Fiscal Reform
Fund (the RFRF) that will reward on a competitive basis regions that have
successfully implemented a program of fiscal reforms. The Government's
program aims to strengthen the federal government's efforts in oversight
or monitoring of fiscal management at the regional level. The program
emphasizes that federal legislation should clearly stipulate unified,
minimal requirements for regional budgets and budgetary processes
including basic budget classification, balance sheets, accounting,
reporting, and execution procedures. In addition to setting minimum
federal requirements, the Government envisages supporting regional
governments in the practice of higher quality fiscal management and fiscal
policy standards. As part of this effort the Federal Government will
design and keep updated a Best Practice Code, meant to run ahead of
-2 -



legislative requirements. The Government has also developed an
"incentive-based approach" to support regions that undertake significant
reforms. Regions will compete to receive resources from the RFRF and will
be rewarded on the strength of their implementation of regional fiscal
reform programs. Key fiscal management elements in the overall framework
for the development of regional fiscal reform programs include: budget &
budget process, tax policy, expenditure management, the system of
intergovernmental finance within the regions, debt management and
information and audit.
2. Objectives
The objective of this project is to create the incentives and develop the
capacity for fiscal reform at the regional level in the Russian
Federation. Regions and other subnational governments are responsible for
a broad range of public sector services, especially in the social sectors.
Fiscal reforms are critical for improving the fiscal sustainability,
transparency and accountability of regional governments, as well as for
improving the efficiency and, where relevant, social targeting of public
services. In addition, poor fiscal management at the regional level
impedes the development of a strong private sector.    As such, reforms on
the regional level have an important role to play in the implementation of
the Government's reform program and in supporting economic growth and
poverty reduction.The objective will be addressed by measures to:(a)
Improve the overall framework for intergovernmental finance, including
revenue and expenditure assignments, transfers and subnational borrowing.
(b) Support the regions in the development and implementation of fiscal
reform programs that will promote financial transparency, budgetary
accountability, and strengthened fiscal management policies and practices
at the subnational level.The project will build on the work carried out
under the Regional Technical Assistance Project that is underway. It will
provide financing for the RFRF that will in turn provide policy-based
transfers to those regions that demonstrate clear progress in fiscal
management and in implementing programs of regional fiscal reform.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed loan provides an opportunity to respond to a request for
assistance from the Russian Federation in an area that is critical to its
on-going reform agenda and in which the World Bank has considerable
comparative advantage. Without reform at the regional level, there is a
risk that Russia will experience a deterioration in its fiscal situation
when the recent boom in oil prices fades away, which could be compounded
by significant debt payments due in 2003, 2005 and 2008. Pursuit of reform
would assist the Government in maintaining its fiscal surplus and more
broadly, lack of fiscal reform at the regional level could significantly
hinder implementation of the overall reform program and have a long-term
impact on Russia's growth and development.The proposed instrument is a
sectoral adjustment loan with three tranches of US$40.0 million each. An
adjustment loan is the appropriate instrument to help the Government
address key structural fiscal and budget management issues that, if not
addressed, could lead to unsustainable deficits and lower growth in the
future. The structure of the tranching responds specifically to the
government's request for an instrument to support the RFRF and will
contribute to providing an incentive to the regions who must commit
significant up-front efforts.
-3-



4. Description
The project is designed specifically as the follow-on operation to the
Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Loan RFTAL), which was approved by
the Board in December 1999. The RFTAL is providing assistance to the
Federal Government in strengthening federal and regional fiscal
legislation and in strengthening federal monitoring capacity. The RFTAL
is also providing assistance to six regions ( Volgoda oblast, Samara
Oblast, Belgorad Oblast, Chelyabinsk oblast, Khaborivsky Kray and the
Chuvashi Republic) by financing diagnostic studies of the region's
financial and fiscal systems and preparation of fiscal rehabilitation
programs. Finally, the technical assistance is financing a series of
public expenditure reviews in key sectors in all of the regions. (See
Report P 7345-RU for more detailed information on the RFTAL).
Building on the RFTAP, the FFRFRL is designed as a policy-based operation
intended to help the Russian Government fund the transitional costs of
implementing reforms aimed at improving regional fiscal management. The
total size of the proposed loan is US $120.0 million, to be disbursed in
three tranches of US$40.0 million each. The design supports the
Government's implementation of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF),
which is a transfer window from the federal budget. Regions compete for
"awards" from the RFRF based on their fiscal performance and the strength
of implementation of their regional fiscal reform programs. Regions will
have to meet a set of minimum standards in order to receive awards. The
loan proposes to support the Government in the first three years of
implementation of the RFRF, and it is the Government's intention to carry
on with the RFRF if it proves successful. In addition, the design includes
up-front conditionality on essential reforms of the system of fiscal
federalism that are necessary to assure that the overall intergovernmental
environment is such that improvements in regional fiscal management can be
effectively implemented. The RFRF plays an important role in demonstrating
approaches to fiscal reform at the regional level, as well as sharing
knowledge across regions about what works and what doesn't. It thus also
incorporates some innovative knowledge aspects, both through
learning-by-doing and knowledge sharing.
It is expected that each of three cohorts will have up to 10 regions (7 in
the first and 10 in the second and third) and that up to five regions in
each cohort will receive awards from the RFRF for budgetary support based
on their fiscal performance and implementation of their fiscal reform
programs. The size of the loan (US$120.0 million) is such that successful
regions could receive between US$ 7-9 million (an amount as much as 10 to
15 percent of their annual revenues), which is a powerful incentive for
them to pursue reforms. Being accepted into a cohort, designing and
implementing a fiscal reform program, and being awarded resources from the
RFRF is also expected to have reputational benefits for the regions. The
tranching of the loan corresponds to the expected annual budget needs of
the RFRF and reflects the sequencing of each cohort as it applies to the
Fund and as regions complete their reform programs. Regions will take at
least one year to prepare their fiscal reform programs and each region who
wins the cohort competition will receive grants in two disbursements-
initially, upon completion of the first phase of reforms, and
subsequently, upon completion of the second phase of reforms. While
experience with adjustment operations with three tranches or more has been
mixed in the Bank, this is largely due to difficulty in defining
- 4 -



conditionalities a priori. In the design of this operation, the framework
for evaluating the success of the regions, based on the areas of proposed
reforms set out below, remains the same for each cohort. A successful
competition of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund, with successful
implementation of regional reform programs within a time-bound period,
becomes the basis for conditionality and remains the same throughout the
life of the project. Should a region not implement its reform program or
be disqualified, it will simply be dropped from the competition, making
the prospects of success for the other regions better. The RFRF thus
provides a mechanism for leveraging broader fiscal reforms in the regions.
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
IBRD                              120.00
Total Project Cost                120.00
6. Implementation
The proposed FFRFRL would support implementation of the Government's
reform program as described above. The loan of US$120 million would be
made to the Russian Federation. The Government has created the
Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) to represent its interests for the
purposes of this project. The IMWG is composed of representatives of key
government agencies involved in the design and implementation of
intergovernmental and regional reforms such as the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Economy, and the Duma, and has decision-making powers
commensurate with the task of carrying out intergovernmental and regional
fiscal reform in the Russian Federation. The IMWG oversees the operations
of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund, including the development of the
methodology for evaluating regional fiscal reform programs, implementation
of that methodology and validating the outcomes of the specific regional
programs. The Ministry of Finance and its Fiscal Monitoring Division will
be responsible for day-to-day management of the project, including
interacting with the regions, sharing information with regions concerning
the framework for regional fiscal reforms, validating regional
applications and monitoring progress. It will be responsible for providing
all documentation required to assure that the conditionalities set out
above have been met. It will also be responsible for the implementation of
the methodology for evaluating regions and their reform programs. In
carrying out this work the Fiscal Monitoring Division will liaise with the
project implementation unit for the technical assistance project (the
Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring), given the close links between
this loan and the RFTAP.
7. Sustainability
The overall fiscal and economic effect of regional and intergovernmental
financial reforms will be long-lasting and significant. The envisaged
intergovernmental and regional fiscal reforms, for instance, will have an
impact on the regional fiscal behavior and are likely to result in the
imposition of hard budget constraints on sub-national authorities,
improved management of regional budgets, introduction of capital
budgeting, and ultimately more efficient allocation of public resources at
both national and subnational level. In addition, by providing financial
assistance to the RFRF, the project will support Government efforts to
establish a system of budgetary transfers to the regions that, at the end
of the project, will be fully funded out of the federal consolidated
- 5 -



budget.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The experience of adjustment lending in Russia highlights the importance
of a number of lessons learned from our experience to date in the country.
First, while large structural adjustment loans have been extremely useful
in setting the agenda, guiding the policy framework, and promoting some
reforms, implementation of the programs tended to be weak. Second,
Government ownership and commitment is critical to the success of projects
in the Russian Federation. A third lesson from the Bank's experience is
that it is important to support adjustment lending programs with adequate
and effective technical assistance.Size and nature of the loan:
Difficulties in implementation of SAL and SECAL programs were complicated
by the extremely volatile political situation in Russia during the early
and mid- 1990s. The situation has stabilized over the past year and a half
and the Government is making substantial progress in pursuing its overall
reform agenda. Drawing on the lessons of the SALs and SECALs, both the
Government and the Bank decided that a smaller operation with a narrower
scope, supporting the implementation of the Government's reform agenda
related to fiscal federalism and regional fiscal reform, would be more
effective in attaining results. This allows both the Government and the
Bank to focus more attention on effective implementation of the
program.Government ownership: Experience in the past has demonstrated that
it is critical for effective operations to have strong Government
ownership. In the case of this particular loan, there has been exemplary
commitment from the counterparts in the Russian Government, who have been
active in developing and pursuing reform of fiscal federalism and improved
regional financial management. Compliance with SAL III conditionality
related to intergovernmental finance was strong. An Inter-Ministerial
Working Group has been in place for this project and meets on a regular
basis. The new concept of reforms for 2002-2005 has been approved by a
resolution of the Government. On a practical level, Government
counterparts have worked diligently to develop the mechanisms of the
Regional Fiscal Reform Fund and to implement them on a regular schedule.
A first cohort of regions has prepared and submitted their applications
for Fund resources and the Ministry of Finance has undertaken a great deal
of work to evaluate and validate these applications. There is also broad
interest in and support for the loan beyond the Government. Regions remain
strongly interested and discussions with Duma representatives suggest that
there is support for the reforms within Parliament. The Government's
strong ownership for this project is underpinned by the desire to improve
fiscal management at all levels of government and in particular to improve
the information base available about the financial situation in the
regions.Link between structural reforms and technical assistance: Many
sectoral adjustment loans address issues that are institutional in nature
but the quick-disbursing nature of the instrument makes it difficult to
fully implement institutional measures. This operation has addressed this
issue by relying on a companion TA project that has helped to strengthen
the institutions necessary for effective implementation of reforms at both
the federal and regional levels. In particular the TA has served to
establish the capacity to monitor and evaluate the activities and programs
of the regions. Without this capacity effective implementation of the
project would not be possible. Above and beyond the Bank supported TA
project, the British Department for International Development (DfID) is
developing a program of technical assistance to regions that will provide
- 6 -



support to the second and third cohort of regions in carrying out fiscal
diagnostics and in designing and implementing their regional fiscal reform
programs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         C
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Deborah Wetzel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-1698
Fax:   (202) 614-7776
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Jan. 25, 2002
- 7 -



