From: The President                                               June 16,2003



                                  RUSSIANFEDERATION
                    Fiscal Federalismand Regional Fiscal ReformLoan
                                    (LoanNo. 4647-RU)
                     Releaseof the Second Tranche     - Full Compliance



1. The Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan (FF&RFRL) for Russia was
approved by the World Bank's Board of Directors on January 29, 2002, in the amount of
US$120 million and the first tranche of US$38 million was disbursed in two installments on
October 10, 2002 (US$19.4 million) and December 19, 2002 (US$18.6 million); the front-
end fee (US$1.2 million) was withdrawn on June 5, 2002. The remaining US$80.8 million is
to be disbursed in two equal tranches with two installments each: (i) a second tranche
expected to be released in the second and fourth quarters of 2003, and (ii) a third tranche
expected to be released in the second and fourth quarters of 2004.

2. The conditions for the second tranche (US$40 million) - consisting of full compliance
with specific tranche conditions, on-track implementation of the reform program, and
satisfactory macroeconomic performance - have now been fulfilled. The use of the proceeds
of the first tranche was in conformity with the channeling arrangement set out in the note to
the Board on "Russia - Controls over Adjustment Loan Disbursements", dated December 9,
1999; it is expected that the same procedures will be applied to the second and the third
tranches.

                                                        James D. Wolfensohn
                                                        President


                                                        by Shengman Zhang


                                 Vice President:        Johannes F. Linn
                              Country Director:        Julian F. Schweitzer
                                Sector Director:           Cheryl Gray
                                  Team Leader:          Lawrence Hannah


                                   RUSSIANFEDERATION
                     Fiscal Federalismand RegionalFiscal Reform Loan
                                      (LoanNo. 4647-RU)
                      Release of the SecondTranche     - Full Compliance

                                     I.        Background

3. The Russian Federation has a population of some 143 million people and covers a vast
land area of 17,075 thousand square kilometers (almost twice the size of Canada, the next
largest country in terms of land mass). There are 89 Subjects of the Russian Federation
(oblasts, republics, krays, autonomous okrugs, and one autonomous oblast, as well as the
cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg) that form the second tier of government. The third tier
is formed by local governments - urban and rural municipalities (very often rural and urban
areas are combined in one municipality, also in practice one urban municipality may be a part
of another) with some degree of fiscal autonomy, and some small towns, settlements, and
villages with no fiscal autonomy at all. There are large differences among the regions in
terms of climate, endowments, and economic base that make effective fiscal and economic
management at the national level quite complex. Although the system inherited after the
disintegration of the USSR is federative according to the Constitution, in practice, formal
relations between levels of government have been more like those based on a highly
centralized, unitary government.

4. In 1998 the Government adopted the Concept of Reform of Inter-Governmental Fiscal
Relations in the Russian Federation for 1999-2001, which was created and has been
managed by the Working Group for Improvement of Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations,
including representation from the Government, the Duma and the Council of the Federation.
The Concept laid out a three-year strategy for the reform of intergovernmental finance. A key
feature of this strategy was for the federal government to take an active role in stabilizing and
to some extent standardizing the system of intergovernmental relations. Since Mr. Putin was
sworn in as President in May 2000 the political situation has solidified. A more cooperative
relationship between Duma and the President has developed. To further curtail the powers of
the 89 regional governors, Mr. Putin initiated (and managed to pass through both chambers
of Parliament) legislative changes which no longer gave governors automatic representation
in the upper House of the Federal Parliament (Council of the Federation), and giving him the
right to dismiss the governors when they violate federal laws. In August 2001, the
Government approved a new program of reforms for the system of fiscal federalism for
2002-2005.

5. The objectives of the Government's reform program are stated in the Fiscal Federalism
Development Program for 2002-2005 (approved by Government Resolution #584 on August
15th, 2001). The Government's            commitment     to   the objectives of        improving
intergovernmental fiscal relations and reforming sub-national public finance under the loan
was confirmed by the First Deputy Finance Minister in a Letter of Development Policy to the

                                              -3-


Bank "On the Main Areas of the Regional Fiscal Reform Process in the Russian Federation
for the Period up to 2005", dated November 28, 2001.

6. The overall reform program is clearly on track: previously unfunded federal mandates
have been phased out, a more advanced equalization formula has been adopted, 100 percent
of the personal income tax was assigned to the regions, regions were provided with the sales
tax for which they could set a tax rate and with the share of profit tax where they can vary the
tax rate within the boundaries, tax and expenditure assignments became more transparent and
amendments to existing legislation on clear division of responsibilities between different
levels of government (which in general are in line with international practice) were drafted
by the Presidential Administration and are currently under consideration in the Duma. In
general, the federal government has chosen a road of a more centralized control over
subnational budgets with less discretion of subnational authorities over their expenditures.
Thus, in addition to the equalization fund, several new targeted transfer windows have been
created within the federal budget. The most important are: Compensation Fund to fund law
on disabled and child allowances, Social Co-financing Fund to finance part of housing
subsidies. As a result, equalization transfers in the 2002 federal budget are almost equal to
non-equalizing transfers.

7. Consistent with the objectives contained in the Government's program, the FF&RFRL
seeks to strengthen the system of fiscal federalism and to support the regions of the Russian
Federation in the development and implementation of fiscal reform programs that will
promote financial transparency, budgetary accountability, and strengthened fiscal
management policies and practices at the regional level. The FF&RFRL is designed to
deepen reforms in the following areas: (i) budget process; (ii) tax policy; (iii) expenditure
management; (iv) the intergovernmental system within region; (v) debt management; and (vi)
information and audit.

8. The mechanism agreed with the borrower to promote reform at the regional level is the
Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF) - a transfer window within the federal budget that
provides transfers to regions who present competitive reform programs and implement them.

9. The companion technical assistance project - Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance
Project (RFTAP, Loan No. 4528-RU) - continues to be available to assist the Government
and participating regions in implementing their reform programs. This project is being
implemented satisfactorily.


the Government to support their fiscal federalism reform program by funding a E5 million
10.The U.K. Department for International Development (DflD) responded to a request from

technical assistance facility in April 2002, which assists in the implementation of the
FF&RFRL. This facility comprises a "resource center" to assist regions to compete for
resources from the RFRF, support for additional analytical work on fiscal federalism and an
advisor on regional finance issues to the Ministry of Finance (MoF).

                                                -4-


                         11.         Recent Economic Developments

 11.The main economic indicators continued to exhibit favorable albeit slowing trends in
 2002. Real GDP has grown by 4.3 percent, bringing the cumulative post-crisis growth over
 1999-2002 to more than 25 percent; the overall budget surplus amounted to 1.4 percent of
 GDP on a cash basis; and the trade surplus for the year was equal to US$45.4 billion,
 pushing up the Central Bank's reserves to US$48 billion. In 2002 Russia's stock and bond
 markets were, for the second consecutive year, among the best performing in the world.
 Russia's external debt trades at yields that are lower than those of other countries with
 similar credit ratings, although rating agencies made a series of upgrades in 2002 (see
 paragraph 20 below).

 12. An analysis of different scenarios for oil price developments suggests that Russia's fiscal
 and Balance of Payment (BOP)positions are likely to remain sustainable even if oil prices
fall substantially below present levels. Russia could ensure a primary budget surplus without
incurring overall budget deficit even if the price for Urals crude falls to US$18.5/bbl in 2003-
 2004. Indeed, energy prices would have to fall and remain at US$12/bbl for Urals for the
next two years (without a change in net capital outflows) to create fiscal and BOPgaps. Only
a sustained and deep drop in energy prices would likely result in significant financing needs.

 13.However, the medium and long-term prospects for sustaining today's growth rates still
remain overly dependent on volatile natural resource prices, as productivity growth lags
behind real exchange rate appreciation and real wage increase, capital outflows remain high
(although decreasing), and the growth rates of investment have slowed significantly. Overall,
the economy's assets remain concentrated in the extractive industries, with exports almost
entirely dependent on natural resources. Despite the increase in overall medium and long-
term lending to the private sector, domestic bank credit still plays an insignificant role in
financing capital formation by Russian enterprises and investment remains dominated by the
natural resource and the budgetary sectors. To overcome all these impediments to sustainable
growth, the Governmeht embarked on a comprehensive structural reform program:
restructuring natural monopolies, housing and community services reform, pension reform,
public administration and civil service reform. The Government has maintained a good
record in designing and pushing reform enabling legislation through the Duma in 2002. This
momentum is likely to be maintained and reinforced in 2003 as the Government currently
discusses approval of a Medium Term Program with special emphasis on diversification of
the economy.

14.Industrial Growth: Supported by domestic demand, with consumption becoming
increasingly important, output continued to grow in 2002. Growth in industrial output
amounted to 3.7 percent for 2002. In 2002 growth accelerated in "export oriented" industries
(ferrous and non-ferrous metals, fuel and energy, wood and processing)- to 5.5 percent
(weighted average) from 4.2 percent in 2001, while growth in industries that primarily
produce for the domestic market (electricity, chemical, machine building, construction
materials, light and food industry) decelerated to 2.5 percent, down from 6.3 percent the
previous year. Negative rates of growth were registered in electricity (-0.7 percent) and light
industry (-3.4 percent).

                                              -5-


 15.Inflation and Money: Inflation remained at moderate levels, with a year on year CPI
increase for the year 2002 of 15.1percent. The Central Bank (CBR) has been continuing its
rapid accumulation of reserves in 2002, with reserves increasing from US$36 billion at the
end of 2001 to US$48 billion at the end of 2002, while preventing nominal appreciation at
the same time. By end April 2003 CBR increased reserves to US$60 billion, while the ruble
has appreciated in nominal terms against the dollar by about 4 percent in the first four months
of 2003.

 16.Exchange Rate and Terms of Trade:The sharp appreciation of the Euro against the dollar
in the second half of 2002 caused Russia's real effective exchange rate (REER) of the ruble
to depreciate by 0.7 percent, the first real depreciation since 1998. Cumulative appreciation
of the REER exceeded 46 percent since end 1998 (to approximately 20 percent below pre-98
level). At the same time, the average monthly trade surplus fell from US$5.1 billion in 2000
to US$4.2 billion in 2001, and to US$3.8 billion in 2002. While the large trade surplus has
facilitated CBR's reserve build up and the servicing of foreign debt, net capital outflows have
continued to be high, although decreased in 2002 to estimated US$11 billion (down from
US$16 billion in 2001, and US$22 billion in 2000). Russia's foreign investment position
remained negative in 2002, with total investment to Russia increasing by 38.7 percent to
US$19.8 billion, while Russian companies invested US$19.9 billion abroad. FDI, however,
grew by only 0.6 percent, while other investments (portfolio investment and trade credits)
grew by 56 percent, up to US$15.3 billion- the strongest indicator of an increased willingness
to finance business in Russia despite continuing problems with corporate governance and the
business environment.

17.Budget: According to the Ministry of Finance data, the Federal budget reported revenues

percent, and the overall surplus to 1.4percent of GDP on a cash basis. On December 29, the
of 17.1 percent of GDP in 2002. The primary surplus (IMF definition) amounted to 3.8
Budget Law for 2003 was signed by the President, after approvals by the Duma (the lower
chamber of the Parliament) and by the Federation Council (the upper chamber of the
Parliament). The Federal budget 2003 envisages continuation of the sound macroeconomic
policy of generating budget surpluses in 2000-2002.

18.Income, Poverty and Labor Market Indicators: Russia's recent economic performance
has had a beneficial impact on wage incomes and social transfers. According to preliminary
estimates, real disposable income grew by 8.8 percent in 2002, slightly faster than in 2001.
For the third year in a row, real income grew faster than the economy, a reflection of the
favorable balance of trade and continued shift from profit to wage incomes. Real wages grew
by 16.6 percent, after 19.9 percent increase in 2001, indicating that wage growth outpaces
other components of real disposable income. In the wake of the substantial real appreciation
of the ruble in 1999-2001, the average monthly dollar wage increased by 27 percent in 2002
to almost US$141. In December of 2002, the average monthly dollar wage was US$185,
approaching the record level of US$205 recorded in December 1997. The share of the
population with incomes below the subsistence level (R1800, or about US$57, per month for
2002) fell from 27.3 percent in 2001 to 25 percent in 2002. The unemployment rate, reported
by Goskomstat (ILO definition) declined steadily from 10.4 percent at the end-2000 to 8.7
percent at the end-2001, and 7.1 percent at the end-2002.

                                               -6-



 19. Creditworthiness: Russia's positive macroeconomic performance resulted in several
upgrades by rating agencies. In a series of upgrades Moody's raised Russia's sovereign risk
from B2 to BA2 (with "stable" outlook), and Standard and Poor's- from B to BB (with
"stable" outlook). Aside from good fiscal performance and large trade surpluses, rating
agencies emphasized political stability, progress in macroeconomic management, the
implementation of tax reform and the level of foreign reserves which should enhance
Russia's debt service capability. However, Russia's ratings remain below the investment
grade and consequently will not lead to major portfolio adjustments among investors abroad.

20. In sum, the present macroeconomic framework is satisfactory for disbursement from the
FF&RFR loan at this time. The IMF concurs with this assessment.

                    111.       Progress Against TrancheRelease Criteria

21. The release of the second tranche is contingent, pursuant to section 2.02 (d) of the Loan
Agreement, upon progress satisfactory to Bank with respect to: (i) implementation of the
reform program as set forth in the Letter of Development Policy dated November 28, 2001;
(ii) maintaining a macroeconomic policy framework that is consistent with the objectives of
the program; and (iii) the specific conditions described in Schedule 3 and Annex to Schedule
3 of the Loan Agreement. Progress in terms of the macroeconomic framework is described in
paras. 11-21 above.

22. Progress in carrying out the program continues to be satisfactory, and there has been no
reversal of the actions taken in compliance with the first tranche of this Loan. In addition to
meeting the specific tranche conditions, described below, the participating regions
demonstrated substantial progress in reforming all core areas as outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy, including extension of coverage of the budget and improvement of the
clarity and methods of budget process; systematization of tax policy in regions so that it is
discourages arrears; improvement of overall use, allocation and mechanics of budget
expenditure; improvement in clarity and predictability of resource flows between regions and
local governments; improvement of the information base and management of debt; adoption
of adequate auditing of the use of public resources. The highlights of recent reform progress
in the regions are described in the core conditions 4 and 5.

23. In general, the FF&RFR design has proven to provide sufficient incentives for regions to
prepare and implement high quality reform programs. At this stage, a total of 24 regions have
presented applications and reform programs to the RFRF under the FF&RFR. There are six
specific conditions for the second tranche, as specified in the Schedule 3 of the Loan
Agreement. All six conditions have been met, as described below:
24. Condition Nd.The RFRF is continuing to operate in accordance with procedures
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank as provided for under the Annex to this
Schedule.

        Satisfactory operational principles were agreed and attached as an Annex to Schedule
        3 in the Loan Agreement. The Methodology for Selection and Evaluation of Cohorts

                                             -7-


       was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. Amendments to the selection
       methodology for the third cohort competition were cleared by the Bank in July 2002.
       Each region is expected to receive two transfers from the RFRF in different years (in
       order to give it adequate time to implement reforms). RFRF continues to be a transfer
       window in the federal budget, transfers are allocated to the winning regions of
       different cohorts on a grant basis as a reward for successful implementation of their
       respective Regional Reform Programs.

    0  The RFRF has, therefore, been created, in full compliance with the Loan Agreement,
       as an expenditure line item in the Federal Budget in 2002 and 2003 with annual
       amount of US$40 million in ruble equivalent each year. RFRF is operating according
       to the agreed procedures. Calculation of the total pool of potential resources for each
       cohort is the local currency equivalent of an average of US$8 million per selected
       region. RFRF resources for each cohort are allocated to selected regions on the basis
       of 30 percent of the pool divided equally, 30 percent proportional to regional
       population and 40 percent according to assessment of individual Regional Reform
       Programs.

    0  Regional governments applied in three cohorts, seven oblasts or krays or republics in
       the first cohort, seven in the second cohort, and thirteen in the third cohort. Five
       regions of the first cohort and five regions of the second cohort were selected on a
       competitive basis and in compliance with agreed transparent procedures upon
       successful implementation of phase one of their respective regional fiscal reform
       programs (both phases were successfully implemented in the five regions of the first
       cohort). The selection of the five regions, the winners of grants in each cohort,
       occurred in November 2001 and October 2002. These programs were developed
       within a standard framework for all the regions. However, emphasis differed across
      regions, given the variations in the initial conditions among regions as determined by
      the diagnostic work.

      The Ministry of Finance (MoF) evaluated the conformity of the regional fiscal reform
      programs from first two cohorts to the announced criteria, success in their
      implementation and compliance with required minimum standards (agreed with the
      Bank). Selection of five regions, the winners of grants in each cohort, occurred in
      November 2001 and October 2002 and was cleared by the Bank. Grants from RFRF
      were provided to five regions of the first cohort (Samarskaya oblast, St Petersburg
      City, Vologodskaya oblast, Chelyabinskaya oblast, Republic of Chuvashia) in
      October 2002 and to five regions of the second cohort (Republic of Karelia,
      Khabarovskiy kray, Krasnodarsluy kray, Astrakhanskaya oblast, Saratovskaya oblast)
      in December 2002.

25. ConditionN2. The Law on the Federal Budget for the year 2003, as adopted by the
Borrower, contains a line item for the funding of the RFRF in the amount of US$40.0
million equivalent or a lesser amount as determined by criteria established for the
Program and as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

                                             -8-


      RFRF is a line item in the Federal Budget 2003 with RUB 1300.4 million or US$40
      million equivalent budgeted for this year. Law on Federal Budget for 2003 has been
      approved by both chambers of parliament and signed by the President at the end of
      December 2002.


and reform programs to the MOF for evaluation.
26. Condition Ng3.Regions for second and third cohorts have presented applications


      Applications and reform programs have been submitted to the MoF by the second
      cohort of seven regions (Republic of Karelia, Khabarovskiy kray, Krasnodarskiy
      kray, Astrakhanskaya oblast, Saratovskaya oblast, Krasnoyarskiy kray, Kaluzhskaya
      oblast) in November 2001, and by the third cohort of 13 regions (Republic of
      Bashkortostan, Republic of Buryiatia, Republic of Mariy-El, Republic of Sakha
      (Yakutiya),   Krasnoyarskiy      kray,   Stavropolskiy kray,     Kaluzhskaya     oblast,
      Leningradskaya oblast, Nizhegorodskaya oblast, Permskaya oblast, Rostovskaya
      oblast, Tverskaya oblast, Taymirskiy Aoutonomous Okrug) in January 2003.
      Applications and reform programs have been communicated to the Bank in hard copy
      and/or electronic form in March 2002 and in February 2003 and were found by the
      Bank eligible for participation in the subsequent stages of the competition.
27. Condition N24.Satisfactory progress in implementationof the second stage of fiscal
reform programs in at least one region belonging to the first cohort based on minimum
standards satisfactory to the Bank and consistent with procedures of the RFRF
approvedunder the Program.

      Results of implementation of second phase of first cohort were submitted to MoF,
      who reported to the Bank that five out of the seven regions have accomplished their
      second phase programs. The Bank has reviewed these results and found that the
      second phase of the reform program, based on minimum standards, satisfactory to the
      Bank (and reflected in the agreed Minutes of Negotations) and consistent with
      procedures of the RFRF were successfully implemented in Samarskaya oblast, St
      Petersburg City, Vologodskaya oblast, Chelyabinskaya oblast, Republic of
      Chuvashia.

      The regions achieved significant progress in the following areas:

         St Petersburg- monitoring and execution of off-budget accounts by the city
         treasury; adoption of the advanced equalization transfers and tax sharing
         arrangements methodology; work on prevention of new overdue accounts payable
         by budgetary organizations to natural monopolies; advanced debt management
         which allows the city to comply fully with its debt liabilities; improved internal
         audit of the use of budget funds; the use of targeted welfare benefits (allowances).

         Samarskayaoblast-gradual transformation towards treasury principles of budget
         execution; improved equalization transfers methodology; monitoring of the
         consolidated debt of the public sector; monitoring and capping tax exemptions;
         overdue accounts payable of the regional Administration and of budgetary

                                               -9-


           organizations were completely eliminated; a new asset management strategy was
           developed.

           Chelyabinskayaoblast-contract registration system adopted and implementation
           started; a system for checking compliance of contracts with different limits was
           implemented; more advanced equalization transfers methodology approved and
           implemented; a cap on tax benefits was put in the law on the annual budget;
           overdue arrears of the oblast budget and budgetary organizations to natural
           monopolies were completely phased out; a debt ledger created and consolidated
           public sector debt liabilities are monitored; steps towards building more advanced
           treasury system made; asset management strategy and privatization program
           started to be implemented; real estate registration improved.

           Vologodskaya oblast- gradual minimization of amendments to the annual budget
           law; consolidation of off-budget funds; gradual introduction of the treasury
           system; improved contract registration system; the decision to allocate 10%of net
          profit of unitary enterprises to the regional budget made; methodology on
           assessment of tax exemptions adopted; utility tariffs audits conducted in seven
          municipalities; monitoring of consolidated public sector debt liabilities
          performed; formal methodology on assessment of expenditure efficiency adopted.

          Republic of Chuvashia- eighty percent reduction in tax arrears due to the
          regional budget in the first nine months of 2002; liquidation of cross-subsidization
          with respect to utility tariffs; adjustment in utility tariffs was accompanied by
          targeted assistance to the poor and energy savings measures; gradual
          transformation towards treasury system made; consolidation of off-budget
          revenue and spending by treasury; a modern tax sharinglequalization transfers
          system established; legal base for the modern budget cycle created and necessary
          budget procedures implemented.


reform programs in at least one region belonging to the second cohort based on
28. Condition N25.Satisfactory progress in implementation of the first stage of fiscal
minimum standards satisfactory to the Bank and consistent with procedures of the
RFRF approvedunder the Program.

      Results of implementation of the first phase of second cohort were submitted to MoF,
      who reported to the Bank that five out of the seven regions have accomplished their
      first phase programs. The Bank reviewed and cleared these results in December 2002.
      The first phase of fiscal reform programs was successfully implemented based on
      minimum standards satisfactory to the Bank and consistent with procedures of the
      RFRF in Republic of Karelia, Khabarovskiy hay, Krasnodarskiy kray,
      Astrakhanskaya oblast, Saratovskaya oblast.

      The regions achieved significant progress in the following areas:

          Astrakhanskaya oblast - extrabudgetary funds consolidated into the oblast
          budget; more advanced equalization methodology applied; inventory and

                                               -10-


           monitoring of federal mandates performed; monitoring of unitary enterprises and
           enterprises with the oblast stake started; and asset management techniques
           improved.

           Republic of Karelia- treasury principles of budget execution implemented,
           including single account principle; information on accounts payable and
           receivable is available to the public; control over targeted use of funds tightened;
           debt ledger was created and debt management system improved; relatively stable
           and formalized system of tax sharing and equalization transfers adopted; progress
           in centralized registration of real estate transactions achieved.

           Krasnodarskiy kray- capital budget started to be developed; elements of treasury
           budget execution implemented; internal audit procedures improved; improved
           open tender- budget procurement practices introduced.

           Saratovskaya oblast- regional treasury is phased in; inventory of debt liabilities
           and unified system of debt liabilities monitoring created; better procedures for
           debt registration of regional and municipal unitary enterprises adopted; real estate
           registration system installed.

           Khabarovskiy kray- progress in treasury budget execution made; budget
            forecasting and financial planning improved; h a y extrabudgetary funds
            consolidated into the budget; assessment of regional health ministry expenditures
            by means of special methodology made; stable equalization transfers formula
            introduced; monitoring and audit of unitary enterprises and enterprises with the
            region's stake(50%) performed.

           Even region which did not get a grants made some visible improvements-
            Kaluzhskaya oblast made significant efforts in implementation of the treasury
            principles of the budget execution; equalization transfer formula was introduced;
            several legislative acts passed and a database was created in order to facilitate
            better budget procurement practices.




agreedproceduresand timetable as providedfor under the Annex to this Schedule.
29. Condition N26.Disbursements to regions from RFRF have been made according to

RFRF grants were scheduled to be made twice yearly, not later than June 30 and December
31 of each year. However, the first installment was transferred in October due to delays in
establishing the accounting arrangements on the part of the Government. The second
installment was disbursed on time in December 2002. Grants were awarded to those regions
that have successfully implemented their Regional Reform Programs and have met the
minimum standards. The Bank received notification letters (on receipt of federal grants) from
all regions receiving transfers. Such notification letters were typically sent to the Bank within
3 business days and five business days at a maximum. Use of the RFRF grant resources in a
region is determined by the regional government concerned in compliance with the Russian

                                            -11-


Federation legislation and in conformity with the provisions of the respective Regional
Reform Program.

                                   IV.        Conclusion

30. In view of the overall macroeconomic framework, good progress with the
implementation of the program supported by the Loan, and in full compliance with the
specific conditions of release as described in paragraph 2.02 (d), Schedule 3 and Annex to
Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement (Basic Principles of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund
Operations)the Bank has informed the Borrower of the availability of the second tranche of
US$40 million.




Washington,D.C.
June 16,2003

