Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7504-RU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
FISCAL FEDERALISM & REGIONAL FISCAL REFORM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
December 20, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



ii
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = New Ruble (Rb)
MICEX Exchange Rates: New Ruble ner US$1
Period Average               End of Period
1998                        9.705                       20.650
1999                       24.620                       27.000
2000                       28.130                       28.160
2001*                      29.300                       30.305
* As of December 17, 2001
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS           - Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA         - Canadian International Development Agency
CSIP         - Community Social Infrastructure Project
DflD         - Department for International Development (U.K.)
EBRD          - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESW          - Economic and Sector Work
FFRFRL       - Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Loan
FFSR         - Fund for Financial Support to the Regions
FY           - Fiscal Year
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GOR          - Government of Russia
GTZ          - Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
LDP          - Letter of Development Policy
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
OECD         - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIT          - Personal Income Tax
PREM         - Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
RFRF         - Regional Fiscal Reform Fund
RFTAL        - Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Loan
RFTAP        - Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Project
SAL          - Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL        - Sector Adjustment Loan
SPAL         - Social Protection Adjustment Loan
TA           - Technical Assistance
TACIS        - Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
UNDP         - United Nations Development Program
USAID        - US Agency for International Development
VAT          - Value Added Tax
WBI          - World Bank Institute
Government Fiscal Year
Jan 1-Dec 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Julian Schweitzer
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Team Leaders: Deborah Wetzel/
Lawrence M. Hannah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FISCAL FEDERALISM & REGIONAL FISCAL REFORM LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Russian Federation
Amount:                    US$120.0 million
Terms:                     Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace, variable
interest rate, single currency in US dollars.
Commitment Fee:            Three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the loan.
Objectives and Description:   The Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Loan
(FFRFRL) aims to support the regions of the Russian Federation
in the development and implementation of fiscal reform
programs that will promote financial transparency, budgetary
accountability, and strengthened fiscal management policies and
practices at the regional level. It is undertaken in the context of
recent improvements in the framework for fiscal federalism in
Russia.
The proposed adjustment loan will provide financing to the
Federal Budget to support a broad range of reforms. The
Government will create a Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF),
a separate transfer mechanism in the Federal budget, specifically
to reward, on a competitive basis, regions that have undertaken
significant fiscal reforms. Operation of the RFRF will be
governed by procedures agreed between the Bank and the
Government, including the process and timing of disbursement to
regional budgets. Three tranches will be released based on the
accomplishment of agreed upon conditionality.
Benefits:                  Key benefits of the project include improved fiscal management,
greater budgetary transparency and accountability, more effective
use of resources, and in the longer term, improved delivery of
services at the regional level of government. With front-loaded
conditionality on intergovernmental finance issues, a broad range
of individuals will experience the benefits of the project, but
especially those in regions that successfully compete for
resources from the RFRF.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
Risks:                     There is a risk that the program of intergovernmental finance
reforms proposed by the Government may take longer to
implement than the Government anticipates, thus hindering
improved incentives in the relations between the center and the
regions. Front-loaded policy conditionalities geared toward the
essential minimum requirements of intergovernmental fiscal
reform help to mitigate these risks. In addition, there are some
risks to implementation of programs at the regional level.
Changes in regional governments may lead regions to alter
support for the reform programs. There is also a risk that regions
may be unable to fulfill their programs. These risks are mitigated
by the design of the RFRF, which focuses on a competitive
allocation of funds to those regions that successfully fulfill their
programs. Those regions that do not fulfill their programs simply
do not receive resources.
Schedule of Disbursements:   FFRFRL is proposed to be a three tranche operation of $40.0
million each for calendar years 2002, 2003 and 2004.
Disbursement of RFRF resources to the regions will be based
upon prior Bank approval.
Poverty Category:          The program of reforms that accompany the loan will help to
meet the Bank's overriding objective of poverty reduction
through a number of mechanisms. Reforms in the system of
fiscal federalism and in regional fiscal policies will contribute to
greater fiscal stability, improved service delivery, public sector
transparency and accountability. A more effective public sector
will contribute to better social service delivery and an improved
business environment. A better system of fiscal federalism will
also help to reduce the insecurity and uncertainty faced by
Russian citizens in recent years as a result of arrears on wages
and benefits and poor management of public funds more
generally. Thus, the program contributes to the three elements
identified by the World Bank as critical to reducing poverty:
increasing opportunity, empowering citizens, and reducing
insecurity.
Rate of Return:            N/A
Project ID Number:         PE-P050489
Map                        Attached to Technical Annex



v
The Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Loan team comprises Deborah Wetzel,
Lawrence Hannah, Stepan Titov, Douglas Sumerfield, Helena Makarenko, Victor Gabor (all of
ECSPE) and Eugene Gurenko (CTFTO).
Peer Reviewers include Jennie Litvack (PREMPS), Peter Fallon (PREMEP), John Litvack
(OECD), Jorge Vazquez-Martinez and Bernd Spahn (Consultants).
A Quality Enhancement Review of the Project was undertaken in May of 2001. The panel was
led by Richard Bird (University of Toronto) and included Mark Sundberg (SASPR) and Dana
Weist (EASPR).






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FISCAL FEDERALISM & REGIONAL FISCAL REFORM LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Table of Contents
I. THE COUNTRY CONTEXT AND MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE .................... I
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM  ...................................................................   5
III. THE PROPOSED  LOAN .......................................................................                                       9
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement .........................................................   9
B. Lessons Learned .......................................................................                       13
C. Benefits and Risks .......................................................................                    14
D. Coordination with the IMF  and other Partners .......................................   15
E. Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision ........................................   16
F. Implementation .......................................................................                       20
G. Financial Arrangements ..................................................................   21
H. Poverty Implications ......................................................................   22
1. Environmental Impact .....................................................................   22
IV. RECOMMENDATION .......................................................................                                            23
ANNEXES:
Annex I                  Main Economic Indicators
Annex 2                  Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 3                  Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4                  Fiscal Federalism Development Program, 2002-2005
Annex 5                  Regional Fiscal Reform: Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6a                 Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Annex 6b                 Performance Criteria for Regions in Key Reform Areas
Annex 7                  Regional Technical Assistance Project (RFTAP)
Annex 8                  The Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF)
Annex 9                  Country at a Glance
Map # 27188R






1
REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FISCAL FEDERALISM & REGIONAL FISCAL REFORM LOAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed Fiscal
Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Loan to the Russian Federation for US$120.0 million to
support the Government's program of reforms related to fiscal federalism and improved regional
fiscal management. The loan is a variable rate, single currency loan in US dollars and will be
payable in seventeen years with a five year grace period.
I.   THE COUNTRY CONTEXT AND MACRECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
2.    The Russian Federation has a population of some 146 million people and covers a vast land
area of 17,075 thousand kilometers (almost twice the size of Canada, the next largest country in
terms of land mass). There are 89 Subjects of the Federation (oblasts, republics, territories, and
autonomous regions, as well as Moscow and St. Petersburg) that form the second tier of
government'. There are large differences among the regions in terms of climate, endowments, and
economic base that make effective fiscal and economic management at the national level quite
complex. Although the system inherited after the disintegration of the USSR is formally federative,
in practice, formal relations between levels of government have been more like those based on a
highly centralized, unitary government. Since independence, the evolution of fiscal federalism has
gone through several stages, with important effects on regional fiscal management, which in turn
affected the overall macroeconomic situation.
3.    Early stages - a system based on bargaining. From 1991 through 1993,
intergovernmental finance was dominated by the evolving political situation and conflicts and
compromises between the center and the regions. Regional budgets were based on negotiated
expenditure norms, customized revenue sharing rates and bargained transfers. The major change
was a shift in responsibility to subnational governments of expenditures that had previously been
the responsibility of the federal government, including price subsidies for food, medicines,
communal services, local transportation and public utilities. The share of subnational budgets in the
consolidated budget increased from 40 per cent in 1991 to about 55 percent in 1993, and the role of
subnational governments in the economic sphere increased. At the same time, subnational
In the remainder of the document we refer to the Subjects of the Federation as regions. "Subnational" government
refers to both regional and local governments.



2
financing was entirely controlled by the center through regulating taxes2 and negotiated
subventions. A series of laws were adopted during this period, setting out the basic principles of
fiscal federalism and serving as the backdrop for the Constitution, but many of the provisions of
these laws were ignored or unfulfilled. This created a precedent for weak or non-compliance of the
regions with federal laws.3
4.     Indeed, this early period was characterized by openly confrontational relations between the
federal and regional governments. Regional governments considered funding for the increased
responsibilities inadequate and many responded by withholding the tax revenues collected within
their territories. The new Constitution enacted in 1993 gave considerable powers to the executive
relative to the parliament and the regions, but stopped well short of concretely defining powers and
settling past disputes. The Constitution also allowed the federal government to establish bilateral
treaties with a large number of regions, which significantly affected the incentives of the region. It
soon became apparent that those regions that were "most difficult" received greater transfers and
subsidies from the center.
5.     First steps at reform - managing bilateral treaties. In 1994, the federal government took
a first step in reform of the system of fiscal federalism. Uniform sharing rates were established for
all major taxes shared between the federal government and regional government and a formula-
driven equalization transfer was incorporated into the budget. In addition, the taxing powers of
regional and local governments were expanded. However, unfunded mandates4 remained
significant, expenditure assignments remained murky, the uniform tax sharing assignments were
not respected by the regions, and limitations both in the nature of the formula for equalization and
in its overall funding caused general dissatisfaction with the results and led to increasing reliance
on negotiations to influence the outcome. The nature of the formula, combined with the use of
"4mutual settlements,"5 gave regions little incentive to reduce expenditures and increase tax
collections.
6.     The bilateral treaties and special fiscal treatment to many regions created mounting fiscal
pressure. Conflicting budget demands were ultimately resolved by the federal government running
a deficit. In the second half of the nineties, federal budget deficits remained between 7 to 10
percent of GDP. Debts of the regional and local governments also increased sharply. The
Government started to rely heavily on both domestic and external borrowing to fill the budget gap,
and turned to increasing the accumulation of arrears and massive use of barter and non-cash offsets.
2 Regulating taxes are taxes in which the sharing rate between the center and the region was specifically determined to
fill the gap between expenditures and available resources.
3 The Laws enacted during this period include: the Law on the Fundamnental Principles of the Budgetary System and the
Budgetary Process (1991), Law on the Foundations of the Tax System in the Russian Federation (1991), and the
Law on the Foundations of Budgetary Rights and Rights to Form and Use Extra-Budgetary Funds.
4 The term "unfunded mandates" refers to mandatory responsibilities and/or requirements placed upon lower level
governments without the requisite financing.
5 "Mutual settlements" refers to transactions in which regional liabilities to the center are offset against liabilities of the
center to the regions.



3
Estimates suggest that the magnitude of these types of implicit subsidies reached up to 10 percent
of GDP.6 In the context of tight monetary policy and a fixed exchange rate regime, loose fiscal
policy and excessive public borrowing inevitably led to macroeconomic crisis. In August 1998,
Russia experienced major crisis when the government defaulted on most of its domestic obligations
and was forced to abandon the pegged exchange rate regime. The crisis led to sharp real
depreciation of the ruble, major banking sector crisis, a subsequent drop in GDP of 4.9 percent, and
an increase in inflation to 84 percent.
7.    Response to the crisis - strengthening reform & changing regional incentives. Even
before the crisis of August 1998, political awareness was mounting with respect to the effects of
the system on overall budget policy. In late 1997 and 1998, the Government introduced a set of
significant reforms just before the devaluation and financial crisis occurred. Reform included a
revised Tax Code, Budget Code, and the Law on Financial Foundations of Local Self Government
(approved in September 1997). In 1998, just before the crisis, the Government adopted the Concept
of Reform of Inter-Governmental Fiscal Relations in the Russian Federation for 1999-2001, which
was created and has been managed by the Working Group for Improvement of Intergovernmental
Fiscal Relations, including representation from the Government, the Duma and the Council of the
Federation. The Concept laid out a three year strategy for the reform of intergovernmental finance.
Notably, this concept suggested for the first time that the federal government has a role in
improving the intra-regional system which, until this point, had been left to the discretion of the
regional governments.
8.    In the past three years, the political situation has solidified. The confrontational stance
between the Duma and the President began to abate after the parliamentary election in late 1999. A
more cooperative relationship has developed since Mr. Putin was sworn in as President in May
2000. The Government implemented substantial tax reforns, with the Duma approving the first
four chapters of Part 2 of the Tax Code in August 2000. To further curtail the powers of the 89
regional governors, Mr. Putin initiated (and managed to pass through both chambers of Parliament)
legislative changes depriving the governors of automatic representation in the upper House of the
Federal Parliament (Council of the Federation), and giving him the right to dismiss the governors
when they violate federal law. In August 2001, the Government approved a new program of
reforms for the system of fiscal federalism for 2002-2005. In recent months, considerable
legislation on broader reforms such as the Land Code, reforms of the Corporate Income Tax, Labor
Code, pension reform, as well as laws to remove administrative barriers, have been approved by the
Duma, indicating the increasing momentum behind the overall reform program.
9.    Challenges at the regional level. While significant achievements have been made at the
federal level, fiscal reforms at the regional level have made far less progress. There is significant
room for improvement in fiscal and budget management practices. Regional governments continue
to rely on a host of extra-budgetary accounts and different forms of tax exemptions and tax offsets.
In addition, regional governments continue to accumulate tax arrears and budgetary arrears. This
makes it difficult, if not impossible, to determine with any clarity the overall fiscal situation of a
6 See Pinto, Brian, Vladimir Drebenstov and Alexander Morozov. 2000. Dismantling Russia's Nonpayments System
Creating Conditions for Growth. World Bank Technical Paper.



4
region. Budget processes lack transparency and predictability. For example, a typical Russian
region will not have approved the annual budget before the beginning of the fiscal year. Although
budget numbers are based on medium-term projections, actuals could deviate by as much as 30
percent. Tender procedures in the regions are often oriented towards protection of "domestic"
firns. The capital investment program is typically treated as a residual item and cost-benefit
analysis is not applied to selection of projects. Standards of budget disclosure vary widely across
the country and the practice of independent audit is virtually non-existent in the regions.
10.  In addition, the existing system of intra-regional intergovernmental fiscal relations is
lagging behind federal reforms, thus creating a non-transparent and volatile environment for local
governments. Regional governments may pass on un-funded mandates and in some cases create
new ones for local governments. Tax sharing rules for municipalities are frequently changed and in
many regions there is no systematic formula for ensuring equalization within a region. In some
cases, current and capital transfers from the regional to local governments are based on
negotiations. Finally, although many regions have begun to introduce a system of treasury budget
execution, there is relatively weak capacity to monitor and manage commitments, flows of funds
and debt. In effect, the problems that plagued central government fiscal management pertain to the
regional levels, and the regional level has limited tools and/or capacity for addressing these issues.
Regional fiscal reform is thus a high priority and will be essential both for fiscal sustainability and
effective implementation of the Government's broader agenda of reforms, much of which must be
implemented through the regions.
11.   Recent macroeconomic performance. Starting from early 1999, three major factors have
helped support renewed growth and strong fiscal performance: i) significant real depreciation after
the 1998 crisis; ii) the oil and gas price boom, which began in the second quarter of 1999; and iii)
elimination of the Government market borrowing overhang and therefore reduced crowding out of
the private sector. Real GDP, now surpassing its pre-1998 crisis level, increased by 3.2 percent in
1999, 8.3 percent in 2000, and is estimated to grow by about 5 percent in 2001.
12.   On the fiscal side, a significant increase in federal revenues, from 13.5 percent of GDP in
1999 to 16.3 percent in 2000, and estimated at about 18 percent of GDP for the first six months of
2001 has led to a strong fiscal position. The primary surplus in 1999 amounted to 2.2 percent of
GDP, registered 5.4 percent of GDP in 2000, and is estimated at around 5.7 percent of GDP for
2001. An overall budget surplus was achieved for the first time in 2000 at 1.2 percent of GDP and
is estimated at 2.7 percent of GDP for 2001. Furthermore, all revenues raised by the federal
budget since early 1999 have been in cash. The ratio of public debt to GDP fell from 138 percent in
1998 to 67 percent of GDP in 2000 and is estimated to fall to 52.4 percent of GDP as a result of
inflation erosion of domestic debt, repayment of debt, strong growth, appreciation of the ruble and
a write-off of US$10.6 billion as a result of the London Club restructuring agreement.
13.  Inflation declined from 85.7 percent in 1999 to 20.1 percent in 2000 and is expected to be
about 18 percent in 2001. Simultaneously, the nominal exchange rate depreciated by 30.8 percent
in 1999 and by 4.3 percent in 2000. In 2001, it has remained steady. This implies a real
appreciation against the dollar of 1.3 percent in 1999 and 12 percent in 2000 (assuming 3 percent
US inflation for both years). While the real appreciation has led to a decline in the monthly trade



5
balance in recent months, the current account maintains a significant surplus and the Central Bank
has built up considerable foreign exchange reserves - from US$12.0 billion in August 1998 to
about US$38.0 billion at end September 2001.
14.   Higher demand for liquidity and better macroeconomic policy have resulted in a significant
reduction of non-cash offsets in payments to the budgets and transactions between enterprises. It
appears that the share of barter transactions declined from 30 percent in 1999 to 22 percent in 2001.
There are also signs that subnational budgets' non-cash execution declined drastically (from about
50 percent in 1998 to about 6 percent in 2000). Nevertheless, although overdue payables to
suppliers, as well as to the budget and extra-budgetary funds, have been reduced in real terms, they
continue to represent a significant source of vulnerability for the economy. These liabilities
amounted to 22.2 percent of GDP in 2000.
15.   The recent strong growth has helped to reduce unemployment, increase real wages, and as a
result, reduce the share of the population living below the subsistence level (defined by the
government) from 35 percent by the middle of 1999 to 32.6 percent in mid-2001. However,
although wage arrears have declined from 2.9 percent of GDP in 1998 to 0.4 percent in 2000, they
have not been completely eliminated and for some benefits, such as child allowances, past arrears
continue to be registered.
16.   Major risks to the Russian economy stem from the potential price volatility of certain
goods that constitute the largest part of Russia's exports - for example, crude oil, natural gas,
ferrous and non-ferrous metals. Despite the post-crisis recovery, the economy remains
undiversified and long-term credit to the private sector remains minimal. Russia's macro indicators
remain vulnerable to changes in key commodity prices, in particular the price of oil. Should oil
prices drop to below a long-term average level, about US$16, significant fiscal adjustment would
be required to meet a debt repayment peak in 2003, and pressure on reserves and a potential
liquidity crunch would likely result in a fall in output.
lI.    THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
17.   The new Government, appointed in May 2000, has included reforms in the system of fiscal
federalism and strengthening of regional fiscal management as components of its overall program
of reforms.7 It has continued to carry out the measures incorporated in the Concept of Reform of
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations in the Russian Federation, 1999-2001 and in May 2001
approved a new agenda covering the years 2002-2005 (see Annex 4). It also has been developing a
regional fiscal reformn program (see Annex 5). This section sets out the medium-term vision and the
key components of the Government's program with respect to fiscal federalism and regional fiscal
management.
7See the "long version" of the Gref Program.



6
A. FISCAL FEDERALISM
18.   The incentives of the system of fiscal federalism and their impact on the budget policies of
regional budget management provide the fundamental context within which regions operate. As
seen above, when incentives are poor, regions focus on bargaining, maintaining controls and
looking for new ways to bypass federal restrictions and requirements, rather than moving to create
conditions for economic growth, improving the investment and business climate, and pursuing
rational and responsible fiscal policy.
19.    Objectives. The objectives of the Government's on-going reform with respect to fiscal
federalism efforts are threefold:
*  Economic efficiency. Provision of long-termn institutional incentives for regional authorities to
carry out structural reforms, maintenance of a competitive environment and a favorable
investment and business climate.
*  Budget accountability. Management of public finance on behalf and in the interests of the
population, with efficient use of tax and other resources, transparency and accountability of
fiscal policy.
*  Social equity. Maintenance of equal access of the citizens throughout the Russian Federation to
public services and social guarantees.
The specific elements of the reform strategy for fiscal federalism are as follows:
20.   Spending powers. Providing subnational authorities with real expenditure powers balanced
with the available financial resources is a key task. To address this it is necessary to:
1)    Clearly distribute expenditure powers between different levels of government;
2)    Ensure independence of subnational authorities in managing expenditures of their
respective budgets; and
3)    Reduce and, in the long run, completely eliminate 'unfunded federal mandates'.
21.   The Government has made significant progress in addressing these issues. In the FY 2001
budget, unfunded mandates were addressed by shifting financing of child allowances and disability
payments up to the federal level. Further progress is expected in the Budget for 2002. Funds for
categorical social benefits and privileges established by federal laws shall be mainly provided from
the federal budget and allocated through regional budgets using subventions and subsidies
(conditional grants) allocated specifically for these purposes. A Special Government and
Presidential Administration task force is also working on draft legislation clarifying expenditure
assignments.
22.   Taxation powers. The bulk of regional revenues is formed by allocations from federal
taxes (shared taxes). Own revenues of subnational budgets cover less than 15 percent of their
expenditure needs. Since lower levels of government receive the bulk of their revenue from federal
taxes, they effectively are spending "other people's money", which typically entails less



7
responsibility in making sure resources are used effectively. Given the federal government's
potential to change the sharing rate of taxes, subnational authorities lack long-term incentives for
maintaining a favorable investment climate and building up their taxable base. In addition, there is
an implicit competition with federal authorities over the tax base, which encourages regions to
operate with money surrogates and off-budget. Finally, lacking legal powers to pursue taxation
policies, subnational authorities resort to "semi-legal" ways of extracting resources.
23.   In the long-run, addressing issues of taxation powers requires: extending the taxing powers
of subnational authorities while preventing unfair tax competition; assigning major revenue sources
to subnational budgets on a long-term basis; reducing the scale of revenue sharing between budget
system levels; eliminating the centralization of receipts from regional and local taxes into upper
level budgets; and ensuring that taxes paid to subnational budgets are paid in the place of the
companies' actual operation and eliminate internal "off shore" zones. Key steps in the short term
include:
1) Assigning 100 percent of personal income tax receipts to the consolidated regional
budgets; and
2) Providing each level of government with a significant tax source over which it has
autonomy to set the rate (within agreed upon parameters).
24.   Financial assistance and budget equalization. The Government envisages a system of
assistance divided into current, investment, and reform promoting facilities. Within current
transfers, the program calls for targeted funding to finance federal mandates and a separate
mechanism for promoting greater equalization. The bulk of resources would still be provided by
the Fund for Financial Support to the Regions (FFSR). The principles underlying the reforms in
this area are that financial assistance to the regions should be based on systematic formnulas,
transparency, easy verification of calculations supported by objective, credible and non-negotiable
data. The approach should support the strengthening of hard budget constraints and support a
system so that over time the regions should be able to independently estimate the bulk of the
financial assistance from the federal government for the next year and for the medium term.
Measures in the Government's program to support this vision are as follows:
1) Maintenance of a transparent methodology for equalization;
2) Creation of the Compensation Fund in order to provide targeted financing for Federal mandates;
3) Creation of the Co-financing Fund in order to provide limited co-financing of expenditures of
subnational budgets on social policy, education and public health; and
4)    Creation of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (the RFRF) that will reward on a competitive
basis regions that have successfully implemented a program of fiscal reforms.



8
B. MANAGEMENT OF REGIONAL FINANCES.
25.   As seen above, for many years the federal government played little role in oversight or
monitoring of fiscal management at the regional level. The Government's program aims to
strengthen the federal government's efforts in this area. The program emphasizes that federal
legislation should clearly stipulate unified, minimal requirements for regional budgets and
budgetary processes including basic budget classification, balance sheets, accounting, reporting,
and execution procedures. In addition to setting minimum federal requirements, the Government
envisages supporting regional governments in the practice of higher quality fiscal management and
fiscal policy standards. As part of this effort the Federal Government will design and keep updated
a Best Practice Code, meant to run ahead of legislative requirements. The Government has also
developed an "incentive-based approach" to support regions that undertake significant reforms.
Regions will compete to receive resources from the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF) and wilil
be rewarded on the strength of their implementation of regional fiscal reform programs. Key fiscal
management elements in the overall framework for the development of regional fiscal reform
programs include:
26.   Budget & budget process. Regional tax and budget laws will need to be fully consistent
with federal legislation. Regions will be required to incorporate into the budget major forms of off-
budget operations (extrabudgetary funds, tax exemptions, budget guarantees). Budget classification
will conform to international standards and will include current and capital components. Regions
will also introduce a multi-year budget planning framework that will spell out a set of key agreed
budget parameters and budget outcomes. An inventory of preferences, subsidies, grants-in-aid and
exemptions will be undertaken and, over time, these will be reduced as well as gradually phased
from non-cash benefits into targeted cash transfers. Non-cash budget execution will be phased out
and regions will move to Treasury-based budget execution.
27.   Tax policy. Policy related to the regional tax base will be systemized in order to encourage
transparency and the mobilization of resources. Regional tax legislation will need to be consistent
with federal legislation. Tax arrears will be reduced. Regional budgetary organizations will pay for
services of the natural monopolies in cash and debts will be paid over time while maintaining
current payments. The share of non-cash payment of taxes will be reduced to zero over time and a
process for addressing non-payment is put into place. A formalized procedure for granting tax
concessions is in place and over time these concessions will be strictly limited.
28.   Expenditure Management. Budget resources and priorities will be move away from
financing commercial activities. Expenditure priorities will be developed and applied. Budget
arrears will be within agreed limits and will be restructured and/or gradually phased out. Regions
will not accumulate new arrears in overdue accounts payable. Reductions in explicit and implicit
subsidies will be implemented. A methodology for evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of
expenditure will be introduced. Procurement practices will be reformed through the introduction ot
competitive tendering.
29.   System of intergovernmental finance within the regions. Legislation detailing
expenditure authorities between regional and local levels and consistent with federal legislation



9
will be developed and enacted. In order to assure the transparent and predictable allocation of
transfers, regions will develop formula-based transfers using objective indicators. Un-funded
mandates deriving from both federal and regional legislation will be monitored and reduced. Tax
sharing rates between the region and local governments will be standardized and the volatility in
these rates will be reduced.
30.   Debt Management. Regions will be expected to introduce consolidated accounting for all
regional liabilities as well as to establish a clear legal framework and procedures for incurring debt.
In cases of inability to comply with the current debt obligations, immediate restructuring of existing
debts will take place and in all cases regions will draw up a consolidated schedule of debt
payments. Regions will introduce a modern debt management system and limit new borrowing to
financing of investment projects within the priorities set up in medium-term investment budgets.
31.   Information and Audit. Significant improvements will be required in terms of
information and disclosure including the adoption of standards for budget disclosure, budget
analysis based on standard budget indicators and its dissemination, and extended dissemination of
the budget process through mass media. Regions will also be expected to strengthen budget audit
and to disseminate audit results.
III.    THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
32.   The proposed loan provides an opportunity to respond to a request for assistance from the
Russian Federation in an area that is critical to its on-going reform agenda and in which the World
Bank has considerable comparative advantage. Without reform at the regional level, there is a risk
that Russia will experience a deterioration in its fiscal situation when the recent boom in oil prices
fades away, which could be compounded by significant debt payments due in 2003, 2005 and 2008.
The Bank team estimates that without reform (reductions in unfunded mandates, and reduced
regional subsidies) and with a drop in oil prices to US$13.5 per barrel (Brent), i.e. if oil prices are
depressed to below the long-term average level, (but higher than in 1998-early 1999), the
consolidated deficit could increase to as much as 2.4 percent of GDP between now and 2005.
Pursuit of reform would assist the Government in maintaining its fiscal surplus, even if oil prices
were to fall. It is estimated that with reform, even if the price falls to US$13.5 per barrel, the
Government would maintain a consolidated fiscal surplus of 0.9 percent. More broadly, lack of
fiscal reform at the regional level could significantly hinder implementation of the overall reform
program and have a long-term impact on Russia's growth and development.
33.   The proposed instrument is a sectoral adjustment loan with three tranches of US$40.0
million each. An adjustment loan is the appropriate instrument to help the Government address key
structural fiscal and budget management issues that, if not addressed, could lead to unsustainable
deficits and lower growth in the future. The structure of the tranching responds specifically to the
government's request for an instrument to support the RFRF and will contribute to providing an
incentive to the regions. Regions must commit significant up-front efforts, starting at least a year in



10
advance of when they might possibly access the RFRF. Also, packaging the loan as one, three-
tranche operation (as opposed to three, one-tranche operations) makes it clear to the regions that the
resources for the RFRF are in place and that access to the resources will be determined by their
own efforts at reform. Conditionality has been designed to mitigate the risks that have been
associated with multi-tranche operations in the past (see below).
34.   Prior Bank Involvement. The Bank has long been engaged in providing analytical support
to help the Government diagnose and address problems related to fiscal federalism.8 Bank lending
related to the reform of fiscal federalism and regional fiscal management has been a relatively
recent development. The Community Social Infrastructure Project (CSIP) included a sizeable
regional finance component. Under the CSIP, the Bank financed technical assistance to the regional
governments of Novosibirsk and Rostov-on-Don in developing modem local treasury and debt
management systems. The first Tax Administration Project focused on tax modemization in
Nizhny-Novgorod and Volgograd, thus addressing fiscal issues from the tax side in these two
regions. The Second Tax Project will continue these efforts in other regions. In 1998, a sizeable
block of policy conditionalities pertaining to intergovemrnmental reforms was included in SAL III,
most of which were met by the Government. The Education Pilot project also incorporates
improvements in the mechanisms for financing of education in three regions. Finally, on-going
work through the proposed Treasury project and analytical work related to Budget Management,
Public Expenditure issues, Public Administration Reform and Governance create an environment
in which the Bank is building up critical mass that will be highly relevant to the proposed loan.
Teams working on these various issues coordinate with the Regional Fiscal Reform team.
35.   The companion project to the proposed loan, the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance
Project -RFTAP- (US$30.0 million), was approved in December 1999 to assist the Government in:
strengthening a deficient legal framework for intergovemmental finance, improving compliance by
the regions with federal laws and building institutional capacity in both the implementation of
intergovernmental reforms and in monitoring the fiscal situation of the regions. The RFTAP is also
providing assistance to six regions which constitute the first cohort of this project (Belgorod
Oblast, Chelyabinsk Oblast, Chuvashia Republic, Khabarovsk Krai, Samara Oblast and Vologda
Oblast) by financing diagnostic studies of the regions' fiscal systems and the preparation of fiscal
reform programs. The TA is also financing a series of public sector expenditure reviews in key
sectors in the above regions. Implementation of the RFTAP is well under way and has effectively
laid the groundwork for implementation of this project. (Annex 7 provides an update of progress in
implementation of the RFTAP).
8 See Wallich (1994) Russia and the Challenge of Fiscal Federalism. Washington, DC; The World Bank; Le Houerou
(1995) Fiscal Management in the Russian Federation. World Bank Report No. 14862-RU; Le Houerou and
Rutkowski (1998) Federal Transfers in Russia: Their Impact on Regional Revenues and Incomes. Comparative
Economic Studies 38(2-3)21-44; Freinkman et al (1999) Subnational Budgeting in Russia: Preempting a
Potential Crisis. World Bank Technical Paper No. 452; Freinkman and Yossifov (1999) Decentralization in
Regional Fiscal Systems in Russia: Trends and Links to Economic Performance. Policy Research Working Paper
No. 2100; Martinez-Vazquez and Boex (2001) Russia's Transition to a New Federalism. WBI Learning
Resources Series.



I1
36.   Link with the CAS. The 1999 CAS R99-229/1 [IFC/R99-198/1] and more recent CAS
Progress Report of January 11, 2001 R2001/7[IFC/R2001-7] highlight the importance of Bank
efforts in four key areas: public sector institutions & systemic policies; governance; private sector
environment and social protection and human development. The principal objective of the
FFRFRL -- to improve fiscal management at the regional level -- is directly linked to the first two
CAS priorities. The reforms supported through this operation help to strengthen public sector
institutions at the regional level by strengthening fiscal management and supporting more
transparent and rules-based procedures for the allocation of resources. In addition, it will help the
Government in its efforts to introduce standards for budget management, treasury control,
information disclosure and audit. By improving transparency and stability in fiscal management,
the loan hopes to improve public sector accountability and strengthen good governance.
37.   While less directly, the FFRFRL may also contribute to an improved climate for private
investment and more effective social policies. The experience to date in Russia is that regional
governments face weak incentives for promoting private sector development. Regional
governments tend to rely on existing economic assets inherited from the old system as a means of
raising revenue in an environment of unstable transfers. Also, some existing enterprises provide
important social services for which they receive subsidies. These and other factors tend to reinforce
an "un-level playing field" between old and new firms and often create obstacles for small and
medium size firms. By promoting better and more transparent fiscal management at the regional
level, the FFRFRL aims to address some of the issues related to a poor climate for development of
the private sector.
38.   Finally, the loan should also help to lay the basis for more effective service delivery,
especially in the social sectors. A key factor in the poor implementation of the system of social
protection and social services more generally has been the problem of unfunded mandates and
weak resource allocation mechanisms at the regional level. Input-based budgeting also affects
performance in both education and health. Although the FFRFRL stops short of pursuing sectoral
reforms in these areas, which are being addressed by other Bank projects, it aims to address
systemic budgetary issues that affect social service delivery and to support regional efforts to
manage expenditures in these areas more effectively.
39.   The 2001 CAS Progress Report links the use of adjustment instruments to the high case,
however given strong macroeconomic performance, the changing Russian context, and the nature
of the operation, there is agreement that this operation should be part of the base case scenario. The
size and disbursement profile of the project are not typical of previous Bank adjustment operations.
In fact they more closely resemble that of an investment operation. Given the restructuring of the
Bank's portfolio in recent years, the loan poses no risks to our exposure. The macroeconomic
situation is strong and the IMF concurs with the Bank's assessment of it. The Government has
made significant progress in its program of priority actions. The Bank continues to monitor at
regular intervals both macroeconomic developments and implementation of the program.
40.   Project design. Building on the RFTAP, the FFRFRL is designed as a policy-based
operation intended to help the Russian Government fund the transitional costs of implementing
reforms aimed at improving regional fiscal management. The total size of the proposed loan is US



12
$120.0 million, to be disbursed in three tranches of US$40.0 million each. The design supports the
Government's implementation of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF), which is a transfer
window from the federal budget. Regions compete for "awards" from the RFRF based on their
fiscal performance and the strength of implementation of their regional fiscal reform programs.
Regions will have to meet a set of minimum standards in order to receive awards. The loan
proposes to support the Government in the first three years of implementation of the RFRF, and it
is the Government's intention to carry on with the RFRF if it proves successful. In addition, the
design includes up-front conditionality on essential reforms of the system of fiscal federalism that
are necessary to assure that the overall intergovernmental environment is such that improvements
in regional fiscal management can be effectively implemented. The RFRF plays an important role
in demonstrating approaches to fiscal reform at the regional level, as well as sharing knowledge
across regions about what works and what doesn't. It thus also incorporates some innovative
knowledge aspects, both through learning-by-doing and knowledge sharing.
41.   It is expected that each of three cohorts will have up to 10 regions (7 in the first and 10 in
the second and third) and that up to five regions in each cohort will receive awards from the RFRF
for budgetary support based on their fiscal performance and implementation of their fiscal reform
programs. The size of the loan (US$120.0 million) is such that successful regions could receive
between US$ 7-9 million (an amount as much as 10 to 15 percent of their annual revenues), which
is a powerful incentive for them to pursue reforms. Being accepted into a cohort, designing and
implementing a fiscal reform program, and being awarded resources from the RFRF is also
expected to have reputational benefits for the regions. The tranching of the loan corresponds to the
expected annual budget needs of the RFRF and reflects the sequencing of each cohort as it applies
to the Fund and as regions complete their reform programs. Regions will take at least one year to
prepare their fiscal reform programs and each region who wins the cohort competition will receive
grants in two disbursements- initially, upon completion of the first phase of reforms, and
subsequently, upon completion of the second phase of reforms. (See Annex 8 for further detail on
the RFRF and it's operation). While experience with adjustment operations with three tranches or
more has been mixed in the Bank, this is largely due to difficulty in defining conditionalities a
priori. In the design of this operation, the framework for evaluating the success of the regions,
based on the areas of proposed reforms set out below, remains the same for each cohort. A
successful competition of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund, with successful implementation of
regional reform programs within a time-bound period, becomes the basis for conditionality and
remains the same throughout the life of the project. Should a region not implement its reform
program or be disqualified, it will simply be dropped from the competition, making the prospects
of success for the other regions better. The RFRF thus provides a mechanism for leveraging
broader fiscal reforms in the regions.
42.   Several potential design options were considered, including a traditional investment loan
mechanism, sub-national adjustment loans (as pursued in India and Mexico) and a programmatic
loan. A traditional investment mechanism (SIL or APL) focused on a specific set of investments
posed limitations in addressing the issues of fiscal federalism and fiscal management. An emphasis
on finance for "bricks and mortar" moved regions' attention away from the policy reforms that are
the centerpiece of the project. The possibility of sub-national adjustment lending (SNAL) was
discussed, but SNALs are typically very large operations that focus on broad economic reform in a



13
single region or state. Such an operation would be premature in the Russian context. The emphasis
in this operation was to focus on fiscal matters and on "cleaning up the books," so success could
possibly lay the basis for consideration of a future SNAL. Using a SNAL instrument would also
reduce the ability of the loan to leverage reforms through the competitive process.
43.   The choice of a Programmatic Adjustment Loan was given extensive consideration and was
not chosen for two principal reasons. First, the effectiveness of the incentive mechanism relies at
least in part on the willingness of regions to undertake considerable up front actions to diagnose
their fiscal weaknesses and to design fiscal reform programs. Without confidence that the resources
for the RFRF were in place, regions would be unlikely to undertake the effort that is needed. The
first competition and award of resources will prompt those competing in later rounds to pursue
reform more vigorously. Second, the choice is responsive to the client's request. The Russian
Governnent has shown considerable ownership in the design and implementation of the project as
a multi-tranche operation. As a result, while there are risks to undertaking a multi-tranche operation
the benefits of the proposed design outweigh the risks.
B. LESSONS LEARNED
44.   The experience of adjustment lending in Russia highlights the importance of a number of
lessons learned from our experience to date in the country. First, while large structural adjustment
loans have been extremely useful in setting the agenda, guiding the policy framework, and
promoting some reforms, implementation of the programs tended to be weak. Second, Government
ownership and commitment is critical to the success of projects in the Russian Federation. A third
lesson from the Bank's experience is that it is important to support adjustment lending programs
with adequate and effective technical assistance.
45.   Size and nature of the loan. Difficulties in implementation of SAL and SECAL programs
were complicated by the extremely volatile political situation in Russia during the early and mid-
1990s. The situation has stabilized over the past year and a half and the Government is making
substantial progress in pursuing its overall reform agenda. Drawing on the lessons of the SALs and
SECALs, both the Government and the Bank decided that a smaller operation with a narrower
scope, supporting the implementation of the Government's reform agenda related to fiscal
federalism and regional fiscal reform, would be more effective in attaining results. This allows both
the Government and the Bank to focus more attention on effective implementation of the program.
46.   Government ownership. Experience in the past has demonstrated that it is critical for
effective operations to have strong Government ownership. In the case of this particular loan, there
has been exemplary commitment from the counterparts in the Russian Government, who have been
active in developing and pursuing reform of fiscal federalism and improved regional financial
management. Compliance with SAL III conditionality related to intergovernmental finance was
strong. An Inter-Ministerial Working Group has been in place for this project and meets on a
regular basis. The new concept of reforms for 2002-2005 has been approved by a resolution of the
Government. On a practical level, Government counterparts have worked diligently to develop the
mechanisms of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund and to implement them on a regular schedule. A
first cohort of regions has prepared and submitted their applications for Fund resources and the



14
Ministry of Finance has undertaken a great deal of work to evaluate and validate these applications.
There is also broad interest in and support for the loan beyond the Government. Regions remain
strongly interested and discussions with Duma representatives suggest that there is support for the
reforms within Parliament. The Government's strong ownership for this project is underpinned bv
the desire to improve fiscal management at all levels of government and in particular to improve
the information base available about the financial situation in the regions.
47.   Link between structural reforms and technical assistance. Many sectoral adjustment
loans address issues that are institutional in nature but the quick-disbursing nature of the instrument
makes it difficult to fully implement institutional measures. This operation has addressed this issue
by relying on a companion TA project that has helped to strengthen the institutions necessary for
effective implementation of reforms at both the federal and regional levels (see para 37 and Annex
7). In particular the TA has served to establish the capacity to monitor and evaluate the activities
and programs of the regions. Without this capacity effective implementation of the project would
not be possible. Above and beyond the Bank supported TA project, the British Department for
International Development (DflD) is developing a program of technical assistance to regions that
will provide support to the second and third cohort of regions in carrying out fiscal diagnostics and
in designing and implementing their regional fiscal reform programs.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS
48.   The project aims to improve regional fiscal performance and budgetary management. Key
benefits include greater budgetary transparency and accountability, improved governance, more
effective use of resources, and improved availability of fiscal information at the regional level of
government. Due to the cross-cutting nature of intergovernmental finance issues, a broad range of
individuals will experience the benefits of the project, but especially those in regions that
successfully compete for resources from the RFRF. More immediate benefits include helping to
sustain the current momentum for reform in the Russian Federation and directly addressing a major
client's request for technical and financial assistance.
49.   Given the political nature and inherent complexity of fiscal federalism and regional
management in Russia the program does face some risks. One risk is that reforms of the system of
fiscal federalism will not move ahead as rapidly as planned. This could undermine the development
of new incentives in relations between the regions and the federal government and decrease the
likelihood of any substantial improvement in fiscal management in the regions. To minimize this
risk, Board conditions are in place that include the essential measures for the system of fiscal
federalism, so that regional efforts will not be offset by changes in the intergovernmental
framework from the top down. The possible weakening of the political will to carry out fiscal
management and budgetary reforms at the regional level is also a risk to the project. This could
occur as improved transparency of regional budgets and accounting procedures impose hard budget
constraints on the regional administrations, thus making it difficult to resort to off-budgetary funds
or to accrue off-budgetary liabilities. Such a situation could trigger political opposition to the
project at the subnational level. The project has aimed to counter this risk by maintaining positive
regional perceptions of the benefits of intergovernmental reforms and by the development of the
RFRF in order to provide some resources as an incentive to those regions that actively pursue



15
reform. Should opposition build in a region to the point where it is no longer possible for it to
implement its reform program, then the region will not succeed in the competition for resources.
50.   A second risk is that the sustainability of the project reforms will be limited and our
resources will have minimal impact. This risk is mitigated in several ways. First, tranche release
will only occur after demonstrated implementation of reforms. Subsequent tranche releases will be
contingent on no backsliding on previous reforms. Reform programs in the regions will be
thoroughly evaluated and many of the measures taken, such as improving budget processes or
transparent allocation of resources, will be difficult to reverse.
51.   An additional type of risk that the Bank faces in its dealings with Russia are those of
exposure and reputational risk. In the past, the Bank's adjustment operations have typically been
very large and as a result, in some cases, have brought Russia close to its exposure limits. This type
of risk is not much a problem anymore because of restructuring of the Bank's portfolio in the
recent years. Finally, in terms of reputational risk, it is possible that localized corruption may affect
implementation of the project. This loan reduces this risk in a number of ways. First, much of the
operation is about improving the transparency of fiscal relations between the different levels of
governments and includes specific measures for improving the oversight and monitoring of
financial flows. Second, it will include rigorous safeguards to assure fiduciary standards and
controls.
52.   A final risk relates to the multi-tranche nature of the project. The recently completed
Retrospective on Adjustment Lending indicates that as the number of tranches increases in an
operation, the likelihood of waivers and cancellations also increases. This is because for operations
that go beyond two years, it is difficult to set conditionality when the future is uncertain. At the
same time the Retrospective referred to some circumstances in which multi-tranche operations are
more appropriate, such as in countries in which risks are higher and when the issues being
addressed are more of an institutional nature and therefore take a longer period of time to develop.
As discussed in paragraphs 41 and 42, the conditionality of the operation is such that the conditions
for the regions to receive resources from the fund do not change over time, they are applied to a
different set of regions. A region that is not successful in meeting conditions simply does not
receive resources from the Fund and this eventuality is built into the design for the project,
precluding the need for waivers. The risk of cancellation exists should none of the regions
successfully implement programs, but this outcome is highly unlikely.
53.   Thus, while the project deals with a relatively complex topic and supports the Government
in implementing reforms through an innovative mechanism, the strong benefits that are likely to be
achieved through the project outweigh the potential risks.
D. COORDINATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER PARTNERS
54.   The Bank has consulted with the IMF on the program of reforms being supported and the
design and development of the loan. It will also consult with the IMF for assessments of
macroeconomic performance over the course of the project. The bilateral donors (DfID, GTZ,
USAID), TACIS, EBRD, OECD and UNDP have funded a wide range of technical assistance in
accounting and information systems, fiscal and financial management, intergovernmental relations,



16
taxation as well as constitutional and legal work. Particularly to support this project, DflD is
currently establishing a special program to provide technical assistance to regions that may be
interested in preparing fiscal reform programs in order to seek resources from the Regional Fiscal
Reform Fund. This program will assure that the second and third cohort regions have access to
technical assistance, as did the first cohort. Other bilateral donors, such as GTZ, have also
expressed interest in providing support related to this project. The Bank coordinates closely with
other donors and agencies working in fiscal federalism in Russia and has benefited greatly from
work already carried out, especially by the DflD, GTZ, OECD and USAID teams.
E. CONDITIONS, TRANCHE TRIGGERS AND SUPERVISION
55.   The tranching and disbursement of funds is spread over three years and is designed to
support the Government's program for regional fiscal reform. The size of each tranche (US$40.0
million, US$40.0 million and US$40.0 million) has been determined in collaboration with our
counterparts based on envisaged financing needs. Satisfactory macroeconomic performance is a
basic requirement and will be measured, in consultation with the International Monetary Fund,
based on the fiscal and monetary stance, inflation, the balance of payments, and the extent to which
the macroeconomic environment affects the objectives of the project. The Bank's experience with
SALs and SECALs suggests that it is more effective to use simple conditionality than a large
number of very specific conditions. Annexes 6a & 6b set out the conditions under which resources
will be disbursed.
56.   Conditions for Disbursement of First Tranche (US$40.0 million, March 2002)
*  Reduction of unfunded mandates (child allowances, law on invalids, Chemobyl victims, Heroes
of the Russian Federation and victims of political repression financed through federal grants).
*  Assignment of 100 percent of personal income tax to regions and regions provided with one
significant tax for which they can set the rate.
*  Continued application of improved methodology for allocation of the Fund for Financial
Support to the Regions.
*  Creation of clear and transparent mechanism for allocation of Compensation Fund resources.
*  Agreement on the operational principles of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund satisfactory to the
Bank (see Annex 8).
*  Line item in the Federal Budget for the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund.
*  Regions for first and second cohorts have presented applications and reform programs to
Ministry of Finance for evaluation.
*  Successful implementation of I't phase of fiscal reform programs in at least one region in first
and up to five regions in first cohort (see criteria set out below).
57.   Conditions for Disbursement of Second Tranche (US$40.0 million, March 2003)
*  Operation of RFRF along agreed principles.
*  Line item in Federal Budget for the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund.
*  Regions for second and third cohorts have presented applications and reform programs to
Ministry of Finance for evaluation.
*  Successful implementation of 2nd phase of fiscal reform programs in at least one and up to five



17
regions in first cohort (see criteria set out below).
*  Successful implementation of I" phase of fiscal reform programs in at least one and up to five
regions in second cohort (see criteria set out below).
58.    Conditions for Disbursement of Third Tranche (US$ 40.0 million, March 2004)
*  Operation of RFRF along agreed principles.
*  Line item in Federal Budget for the Regional Reform Fund.
*  Successful implementation of 2nd phase of fiscal reform programs in at least one and up to five
regions in second cohort.
*  Successful implementation of I" phase of fiscal reform programs in at least one and up to five
regions in third cohort.
59.    Regional fiscal reform programs will be developed within a standard framework for all the
regions (Table 1). However, points of emphasis will differ across regions, given the differences in
the existing situation among regions as determined by the diagnostic work. All regions will be
required to meet a set of required minimum standards for phase 1 and phase 2 of their Regional
Reform Programs, which are set out below.
Table 1: General Framework for Measuring Regional Performance
Objective                   Criteria for Measuring              Expected outcomes
Performance
1. Budget process: extend coverage   Conformity of regional budget to  Regional budgets standardized along
of the budget and improve the clarity   Budget Code.                lines of legislation.
and methods of budget process.
Consolidation of extra-budgetary  No extra-budgetary funds at the
funds into the regional budget.   regional level.
Separation of budget into current and   Greater transparency over capital
capital components.               budgeting.
Introduction of medium-term       Medium-term plan/forecasting for
financial planning.               budget and macro-variables.
Assessment of preferences, grants-in  Preferences/exemptions/subsidies
aid & subsidies. Move toward      become transparent and are reduced
payment of benefits rather than   and over time replaced by payment of
granting of preferences.          benefits.
Introduction of satisfactory Treasury   Improved management, execution
execution of budgets.             and transparency of the budget.
2. Tax policy: systematize tax policy   Conformity of regional tax system to   Regional tax policy consistent with
in regions so that it is consistent with  federal legislation.      federal legislation.
federal legislation, encourages
transparency & mobilization of    Reduction in regional tax arrears.  Tax arrears approach zero (remaining
revenues and discourages arrears.                                   related only to insolvency issues).
Reduction in non-cash payment of



18
taxes.                             100 percent cash payment for taxes,
Process for granting tax exemptions    Process transparent, helps promote
legalized and limited.            "level playing field."
Establish basis for property tax by  Property rights are registered and
developing property rights        protected.
registration.
3. Expenditure Management:         Development of spending priorities.  Improved allocation of resources.
Improve overall use, allocation and
mechanics of expenditure.         Reduce wage arrears to budget      Wages arrears for budgetary
employees.                        institutions do not exceed I month
pay and are brought to zero over
time.
Methodology for evaluating        Improved effectiveness of resources
efficiency & effectiveness of     over time.
expenditures put in place.
Over 70 percent of budget
Implementation of clear procurement  expenditures on goods & services is
procedures, including competitive  awarded through tenders.
bidding and full information on bids
and results published in mass media.   Full information on competitive
bidding and tenders available in mass
media.
4. Intergovernmental system within  Legislation detailing expenditure  Expenditure responsibilities are clear.
region: improve clarity and       authority between regional and local
predictability of resource flows  administrative levels.
between regions and local
governments.                      Reduction in regional un-funded    Regional unfunded mandates
mandates (to local governments.)  approach zero over time.
Standard rates of revenue assignment  Increased predictability on revenue
(sharing) across region.          side.
Clear methodology for allocating   Allocation of resources to local
transfers.                         governments transparent and
predictable.
5. Debt management: improve       Introduce consolidated accounting for  Quantification and transparency of all
information base and management of   all regional liabilities.       debt liabilities.
debt.
Reduce overdue debt liabilities (and    Reduce overdue debt liabilities and
accounts payable).                 accounts payable to below 20 percent
of budget revenues.
Draw up consolidated schedule of
payment for debt payments.         Pay liabilities in cash on time and in
full.
Analysis of debt capacity based on
anticipated revenue flows.         Clear measure of borrowing capacity
established.



19
6. Information & Audit: assure  Public dissemination of budget.  Budget published through mass
adequate auditing of use of public                              media and intemet to encourage
resources.                      Implementation of audits by     public accountability.
independent auditors an a systematic
basis.                          Strengthen information base and
accountability conceming use of
Audits publicly available.      funds.
60.   Minimum Standards for Phase 1 of Regional Reform Programs
*  Introduction of medium-term (3 year) budget framework and forecasting of macro variables
*  Overdue wage arrears of the regional consolidated budget are less than the average monthly
payroll (based on data for current reporting year).
*  Regional consolidated budget has no overdue unsettled arrears to the Federal Budget
(budget loans, guarantees/warranties under centralized credits) in excess of the mean
monthly tax and non-tax receipts (based on current reporting year.)
*  Share of non-monetary receipts of the region's tax receipts is less than 30 percent.
*  Creation of Debt Registry and accounting for all debt liabilities (securities including
agrobonds, bank loans and outstanding obligations under guarantees).
*  Regional government has no overdue (unsettled) debt obligations to commercial creditors
(securities  including   agrobonds,  bank   loans,  outstanding   obligations   under
guarantees/warranties).
*  Debt size and debt service are consistent with the limits set forth in the Budget Code.
*  Publication in regional mass media of information on budget, debt and public procurement.
*  No restrictions on the flow of goods, labor or capital between regions and/or between
municipalities within a region.
61.   Additional Minimum Standards for Phase 2 of Regional Reform Programs
*  Establishing the basis of treasury system (single budget account from which payments are
made directly to suppliers of goods and services and procured by the budget) as measured
by Treasury Concept and step-by-step implementation plan.
*  Off budget resources and extra-budgetary funds are less than 10 percent of total budget
revenues.
*  The share of non-monetary receipts of the region's tax receipts is less than 5 percent.
*  Establishing basis for system  of registration of property rights (as foundation for
development of property tax) by regional government approval of regulation on registration
of property rights.
*  Establishing a system  for evaluating the efficiency of budget expenditures and whether
expenditures are used for intended purpose and cost effective.
*  Introduction of a formula-based system for the allocation of equalization transfers from the
region to local governments.
*  Procedure for regional public procurement through tenders is approved and being
implemented.



20
62.   Monitoring and Supervision. The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for day-today-
monitoring and supervision of the program. The RFTAP project incorporated a specific component
to support the monitoring and supervision capacity of the Ministry of Finance and this capacity is
fully in place. The Bank will field missions at least three times a year to assess implementation of
the overall program, to visit regions and to evaluate progress in implementation of the regional
programs based on the above criteria. Constant supervision capacity will exist in the World Bank
Moscow office and close contact via e-mail with our Russian counterparts facilitates effective
supervision of the project. In addition, efforts will be made to assess the impact of the
Governments overall program on unfunded mandates, regional tax autonomy and horizontal and
vertical imbalances in the system of fiscal federalism, so as to monitor progress in addressing these
issues.9
63.   In addition to performance criteria, Table 1 sets out key outcomes that are expected to result
over time from implementation of the regional reform programs. These outcomes are focused on
items that are relatively straightforward to measure and are based on information that regions will
be obliged to provide. Of course, such variables are subject to exogenous shocks as are most parts
of the economy, so there may not always be a one-to-one correspondence between reforms and
outcomes in the long run.
64.   Sustainability. The monitoring and evaluation discussed above will serve as one method
of determining whether key aspects of the program are sustainable. Another important indicator is
the Government's commitment to implementation of the program generally and the extent to which
it supports the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund, more specifically. In the project discussions the
Government has suggested that, should the early experiences with the RFRF be successful, it will
expand the program after 2004 to a larger number of regions. To date the RFRF has generated
much interest amongst the regions and there has been stiff competition among them to be included
into the second cohort of regions. Those in the first cohort have already undertaken a wide range of
measures to improve their fiscal management - many of these measures demonstrate a commitment
to improvement in financial management on a long-term basis.
F. IMPLEMENTATION
65.   The proposed FFRFRL would support implementation of the Government's reform
program as described above. The loan of US$120 million would be made to the Russian
Federation. The Government has created the Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IMWG) to
represent its interests for the purposes of this project. The IMWG is composed of representatives of
key government agencies involved in the design and implementation of intergovernmental and
regional reforms such as the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, and the Duma, and has
decision-making powers commensurate with the task of carrying out intergovernmental and
9 Analysis of the likely fiscal impact of implementation of the Program of Reforms of Fiscal Federalism 2002-2005
suggests that vertical imbalances will be reduced from 11.6 percent to 8.7 percent of total budget revenues and
that the gaps between the richest and poorest regions will also become smaller.



21
regional fiscal reform in the Russian Federation. The IMWG oversees the operations of the
Regional Fiscal Reform Fund, including the development of the methodology for evaluating
regional fiscal reform programs, implementation of that methodology and validating the outcomes
of the specific regional programs.
66.   The Ministry of Finance and its Fiscal Monitoring Division will be responsible for day-to-
day management of the project, including interacting with the regions, sharing information with
regions concerning the framework for regional fiscal reforms, validating regional applications and
monitoring progress. It will be responsible for providing all documentation required to assure that
the conditionalities set out above have been met. It will also be responsible for the implementation
of the methodology for evaluating regions and their reform programs. In carrying out this work the
Fiscal Monitoring Division will liaise with the project implementation unit for the technical
assistance project (the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring), given the close links between this
loan and the RFTAP.
G. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
67.  In May, 1999, the Bank initiated discussions with the Government of Russia on ways to
enhance controls and monitoring arrangements for the funds disbursed by the World Bank under
adjustment loans. As a result, a system of "real time tracking" of resources was put into place. The
disbursement of this loan will follow the agreed upon procedures. These comprise:
*  The opening of a separate account in the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) to which the
loan proceeds are credited. There will be no other funds in this account and withdrawals
from the account shall be made only to: (a) finance Government expenditures
denominated in foreign currency, restricted to sovereign debt service payments of the
Russian Federation made in accordance with the Law on the Budget, and (b) sell foreign
currency to the CBR and transfer respective rouble amounts to a Federal Budget account
at the CBR. Funds transferred to this budget account are to be disbursed according to
the Law on the Budget;
* The Ministry of Finance will reduce the deadline for submission of reports on the
annual audit on loan accounts held with the CBR to three months, if full audits are
requested by the Bank in accordance with the Loan Agreements;
*  In the event of transactions referred to in (b) above, the World Bank will receive the
MOF's report on transactions with Federal Budget Funds under its account at the CBR.
The report will reflect priority expenditures handled via the Treasury system (which
provides enhanced controls over the use of budget funds), and report such on the day of
accrual and subsequent days in at least the amount of foreign currency equivalent
transferred to the account;
* The World Bank will receive, on a monthly basis, the MOF's report on Federal Budget
expenditures, by expenditure category;



22
* The MOF will request the Chamber of Accounts of the Russian Federation to furnish to
the Bank annual comprehensive audit reports on Federal Budget execution for each year
in which adjustment loan disbursements take place.
68.  In this particular operation, it is expected that transactions will fall under category (b), and
resources will be allocated under the Law on the Budget. The MOF will report within three days
the release of funds, and Regional Administrations will report within three days the receipt of such
funds, in line with the Ministry of Finance internal order published on November 12, 1999.
H. POVERTY IMPLICATIONS
69.   While the project is focused on intergovernmental fiscal issues and regional fiscal
management, the program of reforms that accompany the loan will help to meet the Bank's
overriding objective of poverty reduction through a number of mechanisms. Reforms in the system
of fiscal federalism and in regional fiscal policies will contribute to greater fiscal stability,
improved service delivery, public sector transparency and accountability. A more effective public
sector will contribute to better social service delivery and an improved business environment.
Better regional fiscal management will also help to reduce the insecurity and uncertainty faced by
Russian citizens in recent years as a result of arrears on wages and benefits and poor management
of public funds more generally. The Government's program, and this loan in support of that
program, thus contribute directly to the three elements identified by the World Bank as critical to
reducing poverty: increasing opportunity, empowering citizens, and reducing insecurity.
I. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
70.   The project will have no direct impact on the environment. For the purposes of Operational
Directive 4.01, it has been rated Category C, and therefore does not require an environmental
assessment.



23
IV.  RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington D.C.
December 20, 2001



24
ANNEX 1
Russian Federation - Key Economic Indicators
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'                         100       100        100        100        100        100       100        100
Agriculture                                     8          7          5         7          7
Industry                                       37         34         36        36         39
Services                                       56         58         58        57         53
Total Consumption                               71         75         79         69         62        68         73         75
Gross domestic fixed investment                 21         19         18         16         18         16        18         19
Govemment investment                            7          8          6         5          6          5          5          5
Private investment                             17         14         10         10        12         13         14         15
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                                 25         24         31         44         46        39         34         31
Imports (GNFS)                                  21         21         26         27         25        25         26         26
Gross domestic savings                          29         25         21         31         38        32         27         25
Gross national savings'                         27         23         16         25         34        28         24         22
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                      418,617    428,464    282,429    193,217    251,092    272,211    308.358    343,819
(USS million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)            2,360      2,600     2,270      1,750      1,750      1,750      1,980      2,200
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1997 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices                  0.9       -4.9        5.4        8.3       5.5        4.0        4.0
Gross Domestic Income                         -2.5       1.5       -7.2        5.4       15.1       4.0        1.7        3.2
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1997 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices                  1.2       -4.6        5.9        8.8       5.9        4.4        4.5
Total consumption                             3.2        5.2       -1,4       -0.3        9.6       7.3        5.1        4.9
Private consumption                           3.8        7.0       -2.0       -1.1        8.7       9.7        5.2        5.9
Balance of Payments (US5 millions)
Exports(GNFS)b                             103,847    103,087    87,258     84,738    115,200    107,269    104,685    107,350
Merchandise FOB                           90,564    89,008     74,883     75,666    105,566    103,690    100,796    103,291
Imports (GNFS)b                            86,730     91,980     74,443     52,970    62,290     68,296     79,215     90,469
Merchandise FOB                           68,093    71,982     58,014     39,536     44,862     50,611     58,702    67,042
Resource balance                            17,117     11,107     12,815    31,768     52,910     38,973     25,470     16,881
Net current transfers                           72      -360       -409        542       -247       -272      -308       -344
Current account balance                      9,126       251        124     20,084     41,418     29,023     15,393      6,465
Net private foreign direct investment        1,657      1,679      1,496     1,348       -347      1,361      1.850      2,751
Long-term loans (net)                       -3,072     4,894      8,448     -2,835     -1,709     -3,680     -5,112     -.5,641
Official                                   -3,631     2,074      -1,301    -2,797     -1,330     -2,409     -3,672     -.3,694
Private                                      559      2,821      9,749        -38       -379     -1,272     -1,439     -1,947
Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)         -5,896    -20,831    -14,771    -20,493    -20,946    -16,036    -12,020
Change in reservesd                          5,121      -928     10,764     -3,827    -18,870     -5,758      3,904     :3,445
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% ofGDP)                      4.1        2.6        4.5      16.4       21.1       14.3        8.3        4.9
Real annual growth rates ( YR97 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                      7.5        3.0      -1.2        1.9        2.1        8.6        2.3        2.5
Primary                                       7.8        4.0       1.8        2.7        1.6        2.0        2.2        1.9
Manufactures                                  8.6       14.4      -3.4       -8.5       21.8        2.0        2.5        3.5
Merchandise imports (CIF)                     12.7       14.2      -15.8     -31.3       17.3       13.8       10.0       10.0



25
Russian Federation - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Acntal               Esfimate         Prq*ected
199     1997    1998   19         2000    2001    2002    2003
Indicator
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
Current revenues                    32.7      35.5    32.1    35.1    37.9    34.3    34.0    33.5
Current expenditures                34.3     36.1    33.9    32.2    29.2    28.9    29.2    28.6
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)    -0.6    -1.7      2.9      8.8      5.3      4.8     4.9
Capital expenditure                  8.1       9.1     6.9      5.4      5.9      5.1      5.4     5.5
Foreign financing                     1.3      2.2     5.4      3.0      0.7    -1.4    -1.7    -1.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                               17.0     18.4    24.5    20.9    22.6    25.6    26.1    27.1
Growth of M2(%)                     32.1     24.9    47.6    48.1    60.7    43.9    24.9    21.3
Private sector credit growth         18.1    49.5    52.3    71.3    -9.1    101.0    93.3    93.8
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR97 =100)
Merchandise export price index     104.8    100.0    85.2    84.5   115.5   104.5    99.3    99.3
Merchandise import price index     107.5    100.0    96.3    96.2    92.9    94.2    99.3   103.1
Merchandise terms of trade index    97.5    100.0    88.5    87.9   124.3   110.9    99.9    96.2
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f       91.7    100.0    72.0    46.8    58.1    60.2    62.2    64.2
Consumer price index (% change)     47.5      14.8    27.7    85.7    20.8    17.7    14.2    12.8
GDP deflator(% change)              44.2      14.5    16.3    64.7    37.1    20.5    17.7    12.5
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Enlarged government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



26
ANNEX 2
Table: Russian Federation  Status of Bank Group Operations as of 11106/01
Closed Projects         20
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)       1,860.40
of which has been repaid    194.66
Total Disbursed (Closed)       5,903.00
of which has been repaid    565.00
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)  7,763.40
of which has been repaid    759.63
Total Undisbursed (Active)     1,642.85
Total Undisbursed (Closed)     1.96
Total Undisbursed (Active +    1,644.82
Closed)
Active Proiects                                                                                                                    Difference
Between
Last PSR                                                            Expected and
Actual
Supervision        Original Amount in US$ Millions                    Disbursement
Rating                                                                  s '
Project ID                    Project Name                 DO   Impin.  FY       IBRD         IDA    GRANT       Cancel. Undisb  Orig.   Frm
Rev'd
P008801                       BIODIV CONSV (GEF) - RU   S          S    1996                            20.1                   3   -1.4   -5.6
P035764                       BRIDGE REHAB               S         S    1996       350                             195.3     20 215.4   37.8
P044200                       BUREAU OF ECON POL         S         S    1997      22.6                                       6.1   3.8
P042622                       CAP MRKT DEV               S         S    1996        89                              33.8   33.4  67.2    6.1
P045622                       COAL IAP                   S         S    1996        25                                       8.1   8.1    8.1
P050486                       COAL SECAL II              S         S    1998       800                                      150   150    150
P035761                       COMMUNITY SOC INF          S         U    1996       200                              56.5     64  91.9   11.4
P008825                       EDUC INNOV                 S         S    1997        71                                 3   54.9  25.7
P050474                       EDUC REFORM                S         S    2001        50                                       50   1.7
P008803                       EGY EFF                    S         S    1995        70                                      50.7  87.2       0
P050891                       ELEC SECTR REF             S         S    1997        40                                      37.9  37.9   33.9
P040409                       EMG OIL SPILL MITIGATION S           S    1995        99                                       3.5   3.5    3.3
P036973                       ENT HOUSING DIVST          S         S    1996       300                              43.6    210 223.6   20.5
P008839                       ENTERPRISE SUPPORT         S         S    1994       200                                       158   158       6
P008821                       ENVMGMT-RU                 S         S    1995       110                                      53.8  51.9    2.2
P008828                       FIN INSTS                  S         S    1994       200                              59.5   65.7 125.2   14.4
P008814                       HEALTH REFORM PILOT    S             S    1997        66                                      47.9  36.8
P008827                       HOUSING                    S         S    1995       400                             150.7   68.9 219.7       64
P034579                       LAND REF IMPL SUPPORT - S            S    1994        80                                      30.5  30.5   -7.5
P008831                       LEGAL REFORM               S         S    1996        58                                      31.1  31.1   10.9
P046061                       MOSC URB TRANS             S         S    2001        60                                      58.9   7.6
P038551                       MUN HEATING                S         S    2001        85                                       85    1.7
P008832                       MUN WATER  & VAN                     S    2001     122.5                                     122.5   9.8
P064238                       N RESTRUCT                 S         S    2001        80                                       80   0.5



27
Annex Table: Russian Federation: Status of Bank Group Operations as of 11106101 (Cont.)
Active Proiects                                                                                                            Difference
Between
Last PSR                                                         Expected and
Actual
Supervision       Original Amount in US$ Millions                 Disbursement
Rating                                                               a
Project ID                   Project Name               DO  Impln.  FY       IBRD        IDA    GRANT      Cancel. Undisb  Orig.   Frm
Rev'd
P008800                      ODS CONSMP               S        S    1996                            60               25.4  12.3  -11.9
PHASEOUT(GEF)-RU
P008823                      PORTFOLIO DEVT           S        S    1995       40                              1.8   14.7  16.5   13.1
P058587                      REG FISC TA              S        S    2000       30                                    27.2   6.8
P046496                      SOC PROT IMPL            S        U    1998      28.6                                   15.2  15.2
P042720                      ST PETERSBURG REHAB   S           S    1997       31                                     1.7   1.7
P050487                      STATE STATS SYST         S        S    1999       30                                    28.8   9.5    0.8
P053830                      SUST FORESTRY PILOT-RU U          U    2000       60                                     60   3.2
P008806                      URBAN TRANSPORT          S        S    1995      329                             77.6    4.4   82    1.5
Overall result                                                      Result  4126.7                80.1       621.8 1671.2 1734.  358.9
3



28
Annex 2 cont. (IFC) for Russian Federation
Russian Federation
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 7/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval Company            Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1996/98      Alpha Cement            0       0      0     0    0        0     0      0
1997/99      Aminex                  0    0.12      0     0    0   0.12       0      0
1999 Bitech-Silur         17.5     7.5      0     0    0    7.5       0      0
1998 Borsteklo              0       15      0     0    0       15     0      0
1999 Campina              8.22       0      0     0  8.22       0     0      0
1998 DCC                     0    0.05      0     0    0   0.05       0      0
1999 DLV                     0     0.6      0     0    0    0.6       0      0
1995 Depsona Z.A.0.         0        0    1.5     0    0        0    1.5     0
1998 DreVo                  0      0.9      0     0    0   0.89       0      0
1995 First NIS Fund         0      6.3      0     0    0    6.3       0      0
1994 Framlington Fund       0        8      0     0    0        8     0      0
2000 IkeaMOS                15       0      0      0    15      0      0     0
1998 Mosenergo              18       0      0     0    18       0     0      0
2001 NMC                   2.1       0      0      0    0       0      0     0
2001 OMGC                   10       0      0      0   8.8      0      0     0
2000 Pan American            0       9      0      0     0      9      0     0
1996 Pioneer First          0        4      0     0     0       4     0      0
1993 Polar Lights          4.5       0      0     0   4.5       0     0      0
1994 RTDC                   0      7.5      0     0    0    7.5       0      0
1998/01      Ramstore               30       0      0     0   30        0     0      0
1995 Russ Tech Fnd           0       1      0     0    0        1     0      0
1994 Russia Registry        0       1.5     0     0    0    1.5       0      0
1995 SCF                    0     1.13      0     0    0   1.13       0      0
1998 Toribank               0        0      0     0     0       0     0      0
1996 UNEXIM Bank          5.28       0      0     0  5.28       0     0      0
1998 ZAO Pakenso            6       1.5     0     0     6    1.5      0      0
Total Portfolio:         116.6    64.1    1.5     0  95.8  64.09    1.5      0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic
1998 Elcoteq                0      100      0     0
1999 DLV                 3000        0      0     0
2001 Bravo               15000       0      0  7000
2001 Probusinessbank         0       0  5000       0
2001 Ford Russia        55000        0      0 55000
2001 Ruscam              13000       0      0      0
2001 Pakenso-RI              0  203.48      0      0
2001 Volga-Dnepr        25000        0      0 25000
2001 Bema Gold               0    1000      0      0
Total Pending Commitment:  111000 1303.48  5000 87000



29
ANNEX 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FISCAL FEDERALISM & REGIONAL FISCAL REFORM LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:      January 2000 - Nov. 2001
Project prepared by:        Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation
with IBRD assistance
First IBRD mission:         January, 2000
Appraisal mission:          September, 2001
Negotiations:               December, 2001
Planned date of Effectiveness  March, 2002



30
ANNEX 4
Russia: Fiscal Federalism Development program for 2002- 2005
Government Resolution Number 584, Approved August 15th, 2001
The Russia Fiscal Federalism Development Program till 2005 (hereinafter the "Program") defines
actions to be taken by the Government of the Russian Federation to meet the objectives formulated
in the Presidential Addresses to the Federal Assembly, Presidential Budget Addresses, as well as
the relevant sections of the Basic Trends in Social and Economic Policy of the Government of the
Russian Federation Over the Long Term, and the Socioeconomic Development Program of the
Russian Federation for 2002-2004, based on and with due regard for the 1999-2001
implementation of the Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform Concept of the Russian Federation, as
approved by Government Resolution No. 862, dated July 30, 1998.
1. Program Necessity and Implementation Conditions
In spite of the reforms implemented in the 1990s, the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations
currently established in Russia is not consistent with the fundamental principles of fiscal federalism
and the national development strategy over the long-term.
By the extent of budget resources decentralization, Russia is practically equal to most federal
states; however, from the formal viewpoint, its fiscal powers are still extremely centralized, even
compared with unitary states. Regional and, especially, local governments are overloaded by
obligations mandated by the federal legislation without the provision of financial sources
('unfunded federal mandates'). The bulk of subnational public expenditures, including budget
sector wages, and the network of budget institutions are regulated by centrally established norns.
Over 90% of regional tax revenues are formed by allocations from the federal taxes. Dependence of
subnational governments on annually established federal tax sharing ratios (norms) weakens
incentives for structural reforms, mobilization of investment, regional tax capacity development,
and tax collection improvement. Due to limited tax powers, subnational authorities have to pursue
the tax policy using informal instruments, which distort conditions for equal competition,
deteriorate the tax climate and promote corruption. In spite of the trend towards formalization of
financial assistance distribution, much of it is still allocated without clear criteria or procedures.
Fiscal equalization methodology requires further development and legalization.
Extremely limited fiscal powers of subnational authorities established by the federal legislation
allow to shift the political and financial responsibility for balancing subnational budgets and the
social sector conditions to the federal center; the latter, on the one hand, is forced to continuous]y
tighten administrative control over the situation in regions, and, on the other, to compensate the
negative consequences of the 'informal' fiscal activity of subnational authorities.



31
Contradictions between budget resources decentralization, formal centralization of fiscal powers
and informal autonomy of subnational authorities are aggravated by unstable macroeconomic
conditions, weak democratic institutes and civil society, underdeveloped capital markets, low
mobility of production factors, traditional paternalism of the state, too high social expectations and
requirements to the state, and drastic differences in budget adequacy across regions and
municipalities.
Subnational budgets still lack the necessary transparency; there is no integrated system to monitor
public finance conditions and management quality that could provide results accessible not only to
various authorities and governments, but also to the population, investors and creditors.
The uncertain fiscal status of municipalities proves to be a serious obstacle to budget system
development. At present, the Russian Federation has about 30 thousand local (subregional)
territorial units, which have their own administrations, including about 12 thousand units classified
as municipalities and less than 5 thousand units with independent budgets. The current local self-
government arrangements do not allow the implementation of a fully-fledged reform covering all
levels of the budget system.
All that results in an inefficient use of budget resources, reduced scope and quality of public
services, public sector degradation, poorer conditions for sustainable economic growth, more
complicated environment for structural reforms, distorted conditions for equal competition,
deteriorated business and investment climate, further increase in interregional imbalances, and
growth of social and political tension.
It is necessary to implement a qualitatively new stage of the intergovernmental fiscal reform within
the framework of the general national development strategy over the medium term.
2. Program Strategy
The Program aims to establish and develop a system of fiscal arrangements that would allow
subnational authorities to pursue an independent fiscal policy within the framework of a statutory
distribution of powers and responsibilities between different levels of government.
The system shall ensure:
*  Economic efficiency: developing long-term  institutional incentives for subnational
authorities and governments to implement structural reforms and support a competitive
environment and enabling investment and business climate;
*  Fiscal responsibility: managing public finance on behalf and in the interest of the
population, with the most efficient use of tax and other resources of respective regions and
areas to provide public services and ensure transparent and accountable fiscal policy;



32
* Social equity: equalizing access to basic public services and social benefits irrespective cf
the place of residence;
* Political consolidation: achieving public agreement on the distribution of fiscal powers
between different levels of government, creating favorable conditions for an efficient
execution of the relevant functions by subnational authorities, facilitating civil society
development;
* Territorial integration: establishing an integrated fiscal system, preventing and reducing
imbalances in regional development, and strengthening the territorial integrity of the
country.
To achieve the above goal it is necessary, first and foremost, to ensure the right and obligation of
subnational authorities to make, within the framework of the federal legislation, independent
decisions on their budget process arrangement and formation of budget expenditures and revenues.
Unless subnational authorities have a statutory fiscal autonomy, they will not be interested in an
efficient management of public finance, budget sector restructuring and creation of favorable
conditions for economic development of their territories. It is only real, statutory fiscal powers that
may form the framework for actual responsibility of subnational authorities for the results of their
financial and socioeconomic policy, based on clear legal mechanisms.
Parallel to that, it is necessary to create and maintain for subnational authorities a competitive
economic (common economic space, absence of restrictions on the flow of goods, labor and
investment, access to capital markets) and political (democratic institutes and civil society)
environment, as well as 'tight' budget restrictions that would make subnational authorities
dependent on the results of their own policy rather than the upper-level budget.
At the same time, drastic interregional differences in socioeconomic development and budget
adequacy, and significant social commitments of the state assume a larger federal financial
assistance to regions, which may require centralization of budget resources in the short and mid
term.
The evolving system of intergovernmental fiscal regions shall be based on equity, coordination of
interests and mutual responsibility of the participants. The Program prohibits establishing special
procedures for revenue formation, expenditure funding from upper-level budgets and/or financial
assistance allocation for individual regions/municipalities. It is necessary to refuse from signature
of bilateral agreements on intergovernmental fiscal relations; the current agreements shall be
implemented to the extent they do not contradict the federal legislation and ensure regions' equity.
3. Streamlining Budget Arrangements in Subjects of the Russian Federation
Streamlined budget arrangements in subjects of the Russian Federation is a general prerequisite for
Program implementation.



33
Before 1995, there were 3 levels of the administrative-and-territorial division of the Russian
Federation, and, therefore, 3 levels of government within a region: 1) regions (subjects of the
Russian Federation); 2) rayons and region/krai/republic/district-level cities; 3) subrayon cities,
settlements, rural administrations, and city districts.
The 1995 Federal Law on General Principles of Local Self-Government in the Russian Federation
allows different interpretations of local self-government functions and terms of reference; it does
not formulate clear criteria for their separation from governmental functions, or provide for a clear
distribution of powers (including fiscal authority) between municipalities of different territorial
levels. The capacity of regional laws to delineate such powers is restricted by the uncertainty of
provisions on the territorial framework for local self-government.
As a result, municipalities and budgets in most subjects of the Russian Federation were established
in former region/krai/republic/district-level cities and administrative rayons. Lower-level territorial
units (former rayon-level cities, settlements, and rural councils), which used to have their own
budgets, were transferred to cost-estimate funding. Some regions established municipalities and
local budgets at the level of cities, settlements and rural administrations while establishing
territorial public authorities (usually with appointed officials and cost-estimate expenditures) at the
level of former administrative rayons. A few regions formally established 2 levels of
municipalities: "territorial" and "settlement-based"; however, the budget process actually exists at
the rayon level only.
Thus, in fact, the Russian Federation still has 2 local (subregional) administrative levels to manage
public finance; however, the Budget and Tax Codes regulate only one level of local budgets/taxes
and fiscal powers, without discriminating between territorial and settlement-based municipalities,
which entails a number of significant weaknesses that block the development of both the budget
system and local self-government.
It is necessary to legalize the right of regions to determine, in compliance with the general
principles, their fiscal arrangements, including the division of local budgets (except city budgets)
into two or more separate levels and the distribution of fiscal powers between them.
To that end, it is necessary to make changes and additions to the Federal Law on General Principles
of Local Self-Government in the Russian Federation that would:
1)    Clarify and extend the terms of reference of local authorities (to include preschool and
school education, basic health services, social welfare, organization of utility service provision,
housing maintenance, etc.; and drastically reduce the need to delegate individual governmental
powers to local self-government).
2)     Legalize the term  "municipalities of two (different) levels" (a municipality comprising
another municipality, or jurisdiction of two or more municipalities over the same population center;
to determine peculiarities of the formation and territorial composition of municipalities (rayons and
cities) directly subordinate to the regional level, and their interaction with other municipalities).



34
3)    Establish general principles and procedures for the distribution of responsibilities and
powers between municipalities of different levels (to determine the minimum set of responsibilities
and powers, including those relating to expenditures and revenues, for municipalities of different
levels; to establish the framework for power distribution by regional legislation and, on a
contractual basis, between local self-government authorities).
4)    Streamline the territorial structure of local self-government (to set up criteria for population
center formation, liquidation, and status determination, as well as criteria for the administrative-
and-territorial arrangement of regions and their constituent municipalities, and determination of
municipality boundaries and areas).
On that basis, the Budget Code shall provide for the opportunity to have several levels of local
budgets in regions (except cities), delineate their expenditure powers that should be consistent with
the responsibilities of local self-government, and introduce unified principles of revenue formation
at different levels of local budgets and budget adequacy equalization across municipalities. Parallel
to that, the Tax Code shall extend, within the limits of the closed-end list, the range of local taxes
and specify the tax authority of local self-government at different levels.
As a result, regions shall obtain an opportunity to implement the provisions of the Federal Law on
General Principles of Local Self-Government in the Russian Federation pertaining to the statutorv
distribution of expenditure and revenue powers between municipalities of different levels and
types. At the same time, the federal legislation shall secure framework conditions for and clear
principles of such distribution and allow municipalities to delegate some of their powers to each
other on a contractual basis.
4. Expenditure Power Distribution
The current budget legislation of the Russian Federation does not provide for a clear distribution of
expenditure powers and responsibilities between different levels of government, which is a basic
element of the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations. A broad expenditure sphere is included
in the area of 'joint' funding, which dilutes responsibility for the provision of many public services.
At the same time, federal regulatory acts still govern public expenditures financed from subnational
budgets, and there are many centrally established physical and financial norms. In spite of the
evolving trend towards the reduction of 'unfunded federal mandates', regional and, especially, local
governments have to meet numerous social commitments mandated by the federal legislation
without the provision of financial sources. The Budget Code requirements to reimburse additional
expenditures financed from subnational budgets are not met, and subnational authorities are often
sued, with a subsequent write-off from budget accounts against writs.
Therefore, regional and, especially, local authorities have no opportunity to balance their budgets
and are forced to pursue a policy of a selective and/or partial compliance with the obligations
imposed on them and thus increase a stock of bad arrears, inter alia, through borrowings. Under
these circumstances, there are absolutely no incentives for an accountable fiscal policy, improved
transparency and objectiveness of budget reports, efficient expenditure management, budget
network restructuring, improved quality of public services, design and implementation of mid-term



35
budget sector development and reform programs, or mobilization of investment in public
infrastructure.
Providing subnational authorities with real expenditure powers balanced with the available
financial resources is a key task of the intergovernmental fiscal reform. To resolve the task it is
necessary to:
5)    Clearly distribute expenditure powers between different levels of government;
6) Ensure independence of subnational authorities in managing expenditures of their respective
budgets;
7) Reduce and, in the long run, completely eliminate 'unfunded federal mandates'.
To that end, the Budget Code shall include the termn 'expenditure powers', i.e. rights and
obligations of authorities to take the following actions within their terrns of reference:
a)    Regulate budget expenditures and, inter alia, determine requirements to the scope, quality
and accessibility of public services, physical and financial norms, expenditure level and structure;
b)    Allocate adequate funds for such expenditures;
c)    Finance (arrange for, produce) public services.
Parallel to that, the Budget Code shall secure a clear and stable distribution of expenditure powers
between different levels of government according to the following criteria:
1 )    Subsidiary basis (maximum proximity of authorities, which exercise expenditure powers, to
users of respective public services);
2)    Territorial correspondence (maximum  correspondence of the territorial jurisdiction of
authorities, which exercise expenditure powers, to the area where respective public services are
used);
3)    External effects (the more the society as a whole is interested in exercising expenditure
powers, the higher level of government (other conditions being equal) they should be assigned to);
4)    Economy of territorial differentiation (the greater subnational differences in the production
and use of public services are, the lower level of government (other conditions being equal) they
should be provided by);
5)    Economy of scale (concentration of public expenditures (other conditions being equal)
helps save budget funds).
On the whole, it is necessary to try and assign all 3 types of expenditure powers (legal regulation,
allocation of adequate resources, funding) relating to a specific service/function to a single level of



36
government, proceeding, first and foremost, from the constitutional division of the terms of
reference, which prevents the occurrence of 'unfunded mandates'.
If it is impossible or inexpedient to implement the above principle, it is necessary to use the
following approaches:
*  Expenditure funding/public service provision obligations legally regulated primarily by a
higher-level government may be assigned to a lower-level government/budget only within
the limits of financial assistance (subventions) allocated for these purposes;
*  Expenditures on public services provided throughout the country in compliance with the
minimum state social standards shall be normally cofinanced from the federal and regional
budgets on an equity basis;
*  A legislative ban shall be imposed on the adoption of regulatory legal acts that mandate
additional expenditures to lower-level budgets without an adequate provision of financial
sources, and on the adoption of reference provisions prescribing to take such expenditures
into account in the establishment of intergovernmental fiscal relations and/or fiscal
equalization.
It is assumed that the most significant changes in the distribution of expenditure powers between
different levels of government during the Program implementation period may be as follows:
a)    Funds for categorical social benefits and privileges established by federal laws shall be
mainly provided from the federal budget and financed (reimbursed) from regional budgets using
subventions and subsidies allocated for these purposes;
b)    Expenditure powers relating to primary and secondary vocational education, and part of
higher education (except education institutions of federal or interregional significance) shall be
delegated to regional authorities and governments;
c) Financial obligations relating occupational (departmental) privileges or institutions, and
organizations subordinate to federal authorities shall be fully transferred to the federal budget;
d) Regional and, especially, local budget subsidies on the housing and utility sector shall be
significantly reduced, with a general cost recovery increase in the sector and possible allocation of
targeted federal financial assistance to regions to allow payment of targeted housing allowances to
poor households);
e) Basic public services such as school education, health, social welfare, and culture shall be
included in the sphere of expenditure powers of municipalities.
A general scheme illustrating the distribution of expenditure powers between different levels of
government by 2005 is given in Annex 1.



37
5. Distribution of Tax Authority and Revenue Sources
At present, the bulk of regional revenues is formed by allocations from federal taxes. Own
revenues of subnational budgets cover less than 15 percent of their expenditure needs. The list and
tax base of subnational taxes are definitely insufficient for financing subnational expenditures
while the tax regulation powers of subnational governments are quite limited.
The tax revenue sharing principle allows smoothing down vertical imbalances and reducing
subsidization of lower-level budgets. However, it has a number of serious drawbacks: lack of
relationship between the scope of public services provided and taxation at the subnational level;
insufficient interest of subnational authorities in tax base development and creation of a favorable
investment and business climate; limited capacity for implementing a long-term economic and
fiscal policy; and dilution of responsibility for budget sector conditions. These drawbacks are most
evident with respect to regulating revenue sources (taxes) with annually established norms for
allocations to different budgets.
Therefore, the Program aims to significantly enhance the role of own revenues of subnational
budgets, including regional and local taxes, through the establishment of prerequisites for eventual
transition to budget revenue formation at each level primarily from own taxes.
To meet the above objective the Program envisages by 2005:
1)    To extend tax powers of subnational authorities while preventing unfair tax competition
and creating common tax space;
2)    To assign major revenue sources (allocations from federal taxes) to subnational budgets on
a permanent (long-term) basis;
3)    To reduce the scale of tax revenue sharing between the budget system levels envisaging
that, other conditions being equal, 100% of receipts from specific taxes and charges shall be
credited to a single level;
4)    To refuse from centralization of receipts from regional and local taxes into upper-level
budgets;
5)    To ensure that taxes payable to subnational budgets be paid in the place of companies'
actual operation; eliminate internal 'off-shore' zones; introduce legal and financial mechanisms to
oppose unfair tax competition.
The distribution of taxes (tax powers) and revenue sources between different levels of authority and
government shall be based on the following principles:
a)    Stable revenue distribution between the budget system levels based on unified principles
and approaches;



38
b)      Own revenues at each budget level shall become a major resource for an efficient
implementation of expenditure powers assigned to that level, including equalization of
budget adequacy across regions/municipalities;
c)     Tax powers of subnational authorities shall not restrict the flow of capital, labor,
goods and services or allow export of the tax burden to other regions/municipalities;
d)     Distribution of tax powers and revenue sources shall be mainly oriented to vertical
(between the budget system levels) rather than horizontal (between regions/municipalities)
budget equalization;
e)     Each municipality shall have a guaranteed minimum allocation norm (depending on
the municipality level) for taxes to be split between the relevant levels of subnational budgets
according to the federal legislation;
f)     Part of regulating tax revenues may be (or, as established by the federal legislation,
shall be) distributed between local budgets using formalized methodologies (based on the
population, budget adequacy, etc.).
The distribution of specific taxes and revenue sources between different levels of government
shall be consistent with the following criteria:
1)    Stability: the more tax revenues are dependent on economic conditions, the higher the level
of government to which the tax source and tax regulation powers are assigned to shall be;
2)    Cost effectiveness: each budget system level shall have taxes and revenue sources whose
base is most strongly dependent on the policy of the given level of government;
3)    Territorial mobility of the tax base: the greater the opportunity for shifting the tax base
between regions/municipalities is, the higher the level of government shall be where the
relevant tax is to be introduced and the stronger prerequisites for centralization of such tax
revenues are;
4)    Even distribution of the tax base: the more uneven (disperse) the tax base is, the higher
level of government shall be where the relevant tax is to be introduced and the stronger
prerequisites for centralization of such tax revenues are;
5)    Social equity: charges collected as payments for public services shall be transferred to the
budget of authorities that provide such services.
It is assumed that the most significant changes in the distribution of tax authority and revenue
sources between different levels of government during the Program implementation period shall be
as follows:
a)    100 percent of personal income tax receipts shall be assigned to the consolidated regional
budgets on a long-term basis, including the distribution between subnational budgets and the
identification of the guaranteed minimum and equalizing parts within the tax revenues of local
budgets;



39
b)    At least 70 percent of federal profit tax receipts shall be assigned to the consolidated
regional budgets on a long-term basis, including the distribution between subnational budgets and
the identification of the guaranteed minimum and equalizing parts within the tax revenues of local
budgets;
c)    100 percent of charges for the use of widespread natural resources, as well as a gamble
business tax shall be transferred to regional budgets, with a potential subsequent conversion to
regional taxes, including the distribution of the receipts between subnational budgets;
d)    Charges for the use of unevenly spread natural resources (first of all, hydrocarbon raw
materials) shall be more centralized;
e)    Shares of and sharing mechanism for sales tax receipts distributed between subnational
budgets shall be adjusted (local budget receipts shall be divided into the guaranteed minimum and
equalizing parts);
f)    The user road tax shall be replaced by a regional vehicle owner tax;
g)    The regional enterprise property tax, local personal property tax and land tax shall be
replaced by a local real estate tax (with a potential distribution of the receipts between different
levels of local budgets);
h)    Except payments to state extrabudgetary funds, 100 percent of aggregate income tax
receipts (single tax, imputed income tax, single agricultural tax) shall be assigned to local budgets,
with the extension of powers of local authorities under these tax regimes.
A general scheme illustrating the distribution of tax powers and revenue sources between different
levels of government is given in Annex 2.
6. Financial Assistance to Other Levels of Government
The implementation of the Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform Concept of the Russian Federation in
1999-2001 formed the basis for a new system of federal financial assistance to regions. However, it
requires further development. Significant resources are still transferred to regional budgets via
nonformalized channels, which weakens fiscal discipline and reduces transparency of
intergovernmental fiscal flows. In most regions, the distribution of financial assistance to local
budgets is still based on the agreement of budget parameters, without any use of transparent or
objective criteria and procedures.
The system of financial assistance to other levels of government shall be designed to equalize
budget adequacy of regions/municipalities while creating incentives for the implementation of a
rational and accountable fiscal policy at the subnational level and efficiency improvement of
budget expenditures. Therefore, it shall meet the following major requirements:



40
1) Financial assistance shall be divided into the current and investment components, and
equalization and 'incentive' components, depending on the objectives and distribution
mechanisms;
2) Current assistance shall be divided into grants, subventions and subsidies as major types
of financial assistance;
3) Financial assistance shall be distributed using a single methodology based on
transparent formulas (with checkable/reproducible calculations) and objective criteria of
the budget adequacy of regions, or predetermined conditions and procedures of a
competitive selection;
4) Budget adequacy calculations shall not use reporting data on actual budget expenditures
(it is necessary to have an objective and transparent assessment of relative differences in
expenditure needs either on a per capita basis or per user of public services) or actual
tax revenues collected/accrued (it is necessary to use methods comparing the tax
capacity of different regions based on the development level and structure of regional
economy);
5) Financial assistance distribution methods and procedures shall be established by federal
laws and the implementing regulatory legal acts adopted by the Government of the
Russian Federation;
6) Tight budget restrictions: overall financial assistance to specific regions/municipalities
shall be approved by the law on the relevant budget (absolute figures), and limitations
shall be imposed for the entire fiscal year on the transfer of funds that were not
distributed between regions/municipalities by the law on budget;
7) Maximum possible sustainability/predictability of the level and distribution principles
of financial assistance to allow regions/municipalities to make independent projections
of major financial assistance to be received over the mid term;
8) General principles and requirements to the types and mechanisms of budget adequacy
equalization across municipalities shall be established at the federal level.
In compliance with the aforementioned requirements, federal financial assistance to regions shall
be provided through 5 funds: Regional Financial Support Fund, Compensation Fund, Social
Expenditure Cofinancing Fund, Regional Development Fund, and Regional Fiscal Reform Fund.
Over the mid term, the Regional Financial Support Fund (RFSF) shall retain its significance as a
major channel for the distribution of financial assistance to regions, by its scope, methodology and
construction of initial data. Major provisions of the RFSF resources distribution methodology
(transfers), which was introduced in 1999-2001, will be included in the budget legislation. Further
efforts will be taken to improve the objectiveness and transparency of calculations on the basis of
data reported by Goskomstat and other federal ministries and agencies (without data verification
with regions, which increases subjectivism and regional inequality). The transfers will be
distributed with due regard for factors that increase the cost of budget expenditures in regions,
which encompass areas with a limited product delivery period. However, the transfers will not
include earmarked funds for product supply to such regions or electricity tariff compensation.
The Compensation Fund established in 2001 shall be used to provide targeted financial assistance
(subventions, subsidies) to regions to ensure implementation of federal laws, usually those



41
mandating payment of categorical social benefits/allowances or instituting categorical privileges.
At the same time, social obligations of subnational budgets established by the federal legislation,
but not supported by adequate resources from the Compensation Fund shall be reduced with a
simultaneous extension of the rights of regions to independently regulate, as established by the
federal legislation, the composition and level of expenditures to be financed in the amount that is at
least equal to the subvention/subsidy allocated from the Compensation Fund. Subventions from the
Compensation Fund shall be distributed between all regions without any exception, irrespective of
the budget adequacy and in direct proportion to size of the relevant population groups, taking into
account, if necessary, public service cost increase coefficients.
The Social Expenditure Cofinancing Fund (SECF) may be established to encourage regions to
maintain a certain level of basic public service provision (funding). The SECF resources
(subsidies) shall be distributed between all regions without any exception for equity-based
financing (partial reimbursement) of priority socially significant expenditures (first and foremost,
education, health, culture, social welfare and, sometimes, social assistance to the population) on
certain terms and conditions. Initially, they may be confined to the allocation from the regional
budget of its share in financing the normative level of the relevant expenditures (in an inverse
proportion to the adequacy of the regional budget), or maintenance of a certain level of funding.
Subsequently, as the SECF mechanisms develop, the allocation of subsidies (within the established
limit) may be also conditioned by the implementation of structural reforms in the region and
efficiency improvement of respective public expenditures.
Investment support to regions shall be fully concentrated within the framework of the Regional
Development Fund, which shall integrate resources scattered between regional development
programs. The RDF subsidies shall be allocated using the following general principles:
*  Targeted support of investment in public infrastructure;
*  Cofinancing investment from regional budgets (in an inverse proportion to the budget
adequacy level);
*  Establishing long-tern regional quotas using a formalized methodology and objective
criteria;
*  Compliance by regions with the federal investment standards.
The Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (to replace the Regional Fiscal Development Fund as from 2002)
shall be formed in 2002-2004 using the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and/or federal budget funds. The Fund's resources (subsidies) shall be
annually allocated to competitively selected 5-10 regions provided they implement the fiscal reforrn
programs.
Other currently available channels of financial assistance to regional budgets and interbudgetary
settlements shall be reorganized as follows:
* To divide allocations to the road sector, depending on their economic contents, into: a)
investment in the development and reconstruction of the federal and interregional highway



42
network under the federal targeted program; b) funds for the development and
reconstruction of regional road networks;
*  To develop and approve a three-year program to complete enterprise housing and social
asset divestiture to municipalities (there will be no settlements with regional budgets on that
basis after 2004);
*  To allocate emergency financial assistance to regions (funding and reimbursement of
expenditures on the elimination of consequences of natural disasters and other emergencies)
from the Reserve Fund of the Government of the Russian Federation when a certain area is
granted a status of 'emergency zone';
* To streamline transfers to other level of government within the framework of mutual
settlements;
*  To estimate financial assistance to closed administrative-and-territorial units using a single
methodology and objective criteria for budget adequacy assessment;
*  To introduce a formalized procedure and criteria for budget loan allocation to regions to
finance cash gaps;
*  To extend the term of (restructure) overdue regional arrears to the federal budget or other
debt obligations only on an exceptional basis provided the region has been granted, using
the statutory criteria and procedures, the status of 'region under financial crisis', with a
temporary restriction of the fiscal powers of the regional administration.
A general scheme illustrating the allocation of federal financial assistance to regions is given in
Annex 3.
Similar arrangements, based on general principles and methodological approaches, may be used to
organize regional financial assistance to local budgets. The federal legislation may establish
additional mechanisms ('negative transfers') for a more efficient equalization of budget adequacy
across municipalities in the event of an extremely uneven distribution of the tax capacity.
7. Public Finance Management at Subnational Level
A clear distribution of expenditure powers, elimination of 'unfunded mandates', extension of tax
powers, sustainable assignment of revenue sources and a 'tight' budget equalization system in a.n
evolving competitive environment shall create strong incentives for subnational authorities to
improve the efficiency of public finance management, reduce 'informal' fiscal activity, and ensure
transparency of decision-making. However, the process shall be supported and accelerated, to the
extent possible, by a mechanism that would ensure federal regulation of subnational finance
management, which should match the new system of intergovernmental fiscal relations.
The mechanism shall be based on three-tier regulators:
1)   Mandatory minimum requirements stipulated by the federal legislation;
2)   Recommended standards and parameters whose implementation shall be taken into
account in the provision of targeted conditioned financial assistance (subsidies) from
the federal budget;



43
3)   Higher, supplementary public finance management standards ('Best Practice Code')
to be adopted by subnational authorities on a voluntary basis.
The mandatory federal requirements shall be confined to standards and procedures necessary and
sufficient to ensure the integrity of the budget system and fundamental principles of budget process
arrangement at all levels (budget classification, accounting, reporting, information disclosure, etc.).
At the same time, it is essential to review and, if necessary, eliminate physical and financial norms
regulating subnational budget expenditures and other formal requirements that have no significant
impact on public finance management quality. The rights of subnational authorities to
independently decide on the list and types of budget institutions, budget sector employment
structure, wage level, and other subnational budget expenditures shall be considerably extended;
parallel to that, the budgeting process shall incorporate methods to assess budget expenditure
effectiveness and quality of services provided.
State minimum standards that, inter alia, take into account the need for maintaining an adequate
wage level in the respective budget sectors shall be established for the most significant social
expenditures with a sizable 'external effect' (first of all, education, health, culture). Per capita
funding norms under such standards shall not be binding for subnational authorities; however, a
mechanism shall be established at the federal level (Social Expenditure Cofinancing Fund) in
support of regional efforts to ensure priority funding of the relevant expenditures. On that basis, the
budget legislation shall be amended to adjust the mechanism for applying the state minimum
standards in subnational budget regulation and budget equalization. The distribution of subsidies
(including investment subsidies) shall also take into account the federal standards for transition to a
new system of housing and utility payments.
The federal legislation and Best Practice Code shall make a special emphasis on compliance by
subnational authorities with their commitments to households, budget entities and creditors. To that
end, it is necessary to maintain legal regulation of the upper limit of subnational budget deficit and
arrears. However, quantitative limitations shall be supplemented by qualitative requirements to the
regional policy of borrowings and investment process arrangement.
To rehabilitate regional finance, protect the interests of the population, budget recipients and
creditors, enhance public finance management responsibility, and maintain tight budget restrictions
the legislation shall establish formalized criteria and procedures for closer budget process
monitoring, temporary limitation of the fiscal powers of subnational administrations, restructuring
of arrears, and implementation of financial rehabilitation plans:
a) for regions and municipalities where over 50% of revenues are formed through financial
assistance from the upper-level budget (heavily subsidized regions);
b) for regions and municipalities that fail to comply with the requirements of the federal
legislation or do not have balanced budgets (regions under financial crisis);
c) for regions and municipalities that fail to meet their obligations to households, budget
recipients, or creditors, including obligations to the federal budget (outside financial management
regime).



44
Transition of subnational governments to treasury budget execution based on the unified federal
standards shall be substantially completed by 2005. Cash service of regions and municipalities that
have failed to switch over to treasury execution in compliance with the federal standards, as well as
cash service of heavily subsidized budgets, regions under financial crisis or outside financial
management regime shall be implemented by the regional offices of the Federal Treasury.
A phased extension of the tax powers of subnational authorities, on the one hand, and an objective
diminution of federal tax authority interest in providing for collection of regional and local taxes
(due to reduced tax revenue sharing), on the other, may require the development and introduction
of a system of agreements between subnational authorities and tax authorities that would clearly
establish the rights and obligations of each party.
It is necessary to design and put in place a system of subnational finance monitoring, a standard
regional fiscal reform program, regional finance management guidelines, and a methodology to
assign solvency and fiscal management quality ratings to regions and municipalities to be used, in
particular, to extend loans of international financial institutions and technical assistance within the
framework of national and international programs, and ensure their efficiency.
8. Socioeconomic Reform Context of the Program
A successful implementation of the Program depends on other structural reforms, on the one hand,
and will make a significant contribution to their implementation, on the other.
Sustainable economic growth is the most general prerequisite for the rehabilitation of the entire
regional finance system. At present, subnational authorities are not sufficiently interested in the
implementation of structural reforms, creation of equal competition conditions, mobilization of
economic activity and investment, reduction of subsidies, rehabilitation of inefficient enterprises,
or debureaucratization of economy. One of the major reasons is uncertain financial, economic and
legal responsibility of subnational authorities, which is, in its turn, related to excessive
centralization of official fiscal powers and high 'informal' autonomy of regions and municipalities.
Therefore, the Program, which envisages a clear distribution of expenditure and tax powers and
responsibilities, creation of a direct linkage between the subnational policy and conditions of
subnational budgets, and tight budget restrictions over the mid and long term, shall help generate
institutional incentives for creating favorable conditions for economic development at the
subnational level.
The tax system is the most essential component of such incentives. The Program will never meet
its objectives without the involvement of subnational authorities in the tax reform process, or
without a clear and sustainable distribution of tax powers between different levels of government.
The fact that subnational authorities stay away from the implementation of the 'official' tax policy
shifts the latter into the sphere of informal tax activities (offsets, payments to extrabudgetary funds
established by regional and local administrations, individual tax privileges, direct funding of the
budget sector by taxpayers, etc.). As a result, even extremely limited tax powers of regions and
municipalities are mostly used for the purposes of unfair tax competition and administrative control



45
of enterprises, leading to a drastic and nontransparent differentiation of the tax climate and creation
of unequal competition conditions. Instead of an objectively necessary reduction of tax burden for
bona fide taxpayers, which should be linked to budget expenditure optimization in the respective
regions, the tax burden is increasing with the corresponding growth of informal economy. Creation
of a common and enabling tax environment for economic activity throughout the country requires a
phased extension of the tax powers of subnational authorities parallel to the elimination of unfair
tax competition.
Chronically unbalanced subnational budgets prevent the extension of the fiscal reform to the
regional and municipal level. At present, subnational authorities have no opportunity or interest to
use modern budget planning methods, ensure transparency of the budget process, design and
implement mid- and long-term budget sector modernization programs. At the same time, limited
(uncertain) official fiscal powers of subnational authorities and general instability of the
intergovernmental fiscal relation force the federal center to put up with 'informal' fiscal policy
methods widespread at the subnational level and noncompliance with the requirements of the
federal budget-related legislation, many of which are admittedly unfeasible. Under these
circumstances, an accelerated implementation of the intergovernmental fiscal reform is a basic
prerequisite for a general efficiency improvement of public expenditures.
Social sector reforms are closely linked to the fiscal reform. First of all, it refers to the social
protection system, which not only fails to meet its objectives, but also has a very strong negative
impact on budget conditions at all levels of government. In fact, a huge burden of social
commitments, which is not supported by financial resources, is blocking the public sector reform as
a whole. Social protection obligations established by federal laws are only partially met, and, in
fact, actual assistance fails to reach the most needy groups of population. A radical reduction of
unfunded federal mandates and replacement of in-kind benefits by monetary compensations
(including the currently available types of targeted social assistance - first and foremost, targeted
housing allowances) also mean a drastic efficiency improvement of social protection expenditures.
Weaknesses of the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations are one of the reasons accounting
for a low implementation rate of the housing and utility sector reform. Municipalities, which are
the principal factor of the reform success, are not interested in the transition to a new system of
housing and utility payments since budget savings are very likely to be expropriated in favor of
upper-level budgets while it is municipal authorities that will have to bear the brunt of potential
growth of social tension at the first phase. Unfunded federal mandates (first of all, numerous
privileges relating to housing and utility payments), generally unbalanced local budgets, and
unstable and nontransparent relations with regional budgets create an extremely unfavorable
background for the housing and utility sector reform. Reorganization of intergovernmental fiscal
relations designed to ensure a fiscal independence of local self-government within the framework
of clear and transparent relations with upper-level budgets will create powerful incentives for the
intensification of the housing and utility sector reform that may be additionally supported by
earmarked financial assistance from the federal budget for targeted housing allowances to
households on condition of compliance with the federal standards for transition to a new system of
housing and utility payments.



46
Similar mechanisms may be also used in other public sector areas: education, health, social
welfare, culture. Any attempts to reformn these areas by administrative pressure 'from above' or by
centralization of budget resources are doomed to failure due to the passive stance of subnational
authorities, diversity of regional and local conditions, and lack of interest in the rehabilitation of
regional finance and budget sector. Greater independence of facilities that provide respective public
services, introduction of per capita funding, completion of transition to insurance-based health care
(with budgetary payments for nonworking population), use of quality assessments of services
provided and budget expenditure effectiveness assessments, and restructuring of the existing and
usually inefficient budget network require assignment of real fiscal and expenditure powers and
responsibilities to subnational authorities.
The fiscal reform, housing and utility sector reform and social sector reform create necessary
prerequisites for the natural monopoly reform, which, in its turn, is one of the most essential
conditions of sustainable economic growth.
Therefore, the intergovernmental fiscal reform may be considered a link in the overall system of
socioeconomic reforms taken as a basis for the National Development Strategy till 2010. In case of
success, this reform, in a broader sense, will facilitate the formation of an efficient state and civil
society in Russia based, among other things, on a clear distribution of powers between different
levels of public authorities, their transparency and accountability to the population.
9. Program Implementation Mechanism
Program implementation assumes a close interaction and collaboration between various branches
and levels of government. Therefore, the Working Group for Intergovernmental Fiscal
Development shall be taken as a basis for establishing an Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform
Commission of the Russian Federation that would include representatives from the Government,
Presidential Administration, State Duma, regions, and municipalities.
The Govermnent of the Russian Federation may be represented in the Commission by the MOF (as
a lead entity), MOEDT, Ministry for Federal Affairs, MRT, MLSD, Gosstroy, Goskomstat, and
Office of the Government. The MOF and Office of the Government may be responsible for logistic
support of the Commission.
To ensure high-quality drafting of regulatory legal acts and methodological materials to be
reviewed by the Commission the MOF's Standing Working Group for Intergovernmental Fiscal
Reform may be taken as a basis to establish an Expert Council under the Commission that would
include representatives from the MOF, regional and local financial authorities, and independent
experts.
The Program shall be implemented in 2 stages: 2001-2003 and 2004-2005, according to the
Program Implementation Action Plan to be approved by the Government of the Russian Federation
for each stage.



47
General Scheme Illustrating Distribution of Expenditure Powers between Different
Levels of Government of the Russian Federation by 200510
Legal     Financing     Provision
Function                  regulation
1.GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICES
1.1. Functioning of the head of the state - President            F            F
of the Russian Federation
1.2. Functioning of legislative (representative) and  F         F             F
executive federal public authorities
1.3. Functioning of legislative (representative) and  R         R             R
executive regional authorities
1.4. Functioning of representative and executive    L           L             L
bodies of local self-government
1.7. Elections and referendums
federal                                       F           F            F
regional                                    F+R           R            R
local                                       F+L           L            L
1.7. Tax collection
federal taxes                                 F           F            F
regional taxes                                F          F+R           F
local taxes                                   F          F+L           F
1.8. Budget resources management and monitoring (financial authorities, Chamber of Accounts,
Control and Audit Department (KRU))
federal                                       F           F            F
regional                                    F+R           R            R
local                                       F+L           L            L
1.9. Archival service                               F            F            F
1. 10. Land and real estate registration
single Land Cadastre development             F            F            F
real estate registration for taxation purposes  F+R       L            L
1.11. Registrar service                             F            F           F/L
10 Draft. F = Federal, R = Regional, L = Local



48
Legal     Financing    Provision
Function                  regulation
1.12. Forecast, planning and statistics             F           F            F
1.13. Patent and trade mark registration            F           F            F
1.14. Sanitary, epidemiological and veterinary      F           F            F
surveillance
1.15. Standardization and metrology                F            F            F
1.16. Geodesy and cartography                      F            F            F
1.17. Hydrometeorology                              F           F            F
1. 18. Seed and pedigree breeding                   F           F            F
1.19. Federative and ethnic policy                F+R         F+R          F+R
1.20. International activity                        F           F            F
1.21. Judiciary
Federal judicial system                       F           F            F
Justice of the peace courts                  F+R          R            R
1.22. National defense, including military registration,  F     F            F
mobilization training, military space-based
activities
1.23. Recycling and disposal of armaments           F           F            F
1.24. Law enforcement and public security
Police (crime control):
Organized crime and dangerous special  F          F            F
criminals
Other types of crime    F+R        R           R
Public order protection    R+L      R+L           L
Road safety    F           R            R
Internal troops                               F           F            F
Criminal execution system                     F           F            F
Tax police authorities                        F           F            F
National security authorities                 F            F           F
National border service                       F            F           F
Customs authorities                           F           F            F
Procuracy                                     F           F            F
Fire control service                         F+R         F+R          R+L
1.25. Fundamental research and support of scientific  F         F            F
and technological progress
1.26. Space research and use                       F            F            F
1.27. Official mass media



49
Legal     Financing     Provision
Function                   regulation
mass media of federal authorities             F            F            F
mass media of regional authorities            R            R            R
mass media of local authorities               L            L            L
1.28. Protection of environment and natural resources
facilities and activities of federal significance  F       F            F
facilities and activities of regional significance  R      R            R
facilities and activities of local significance  L         L            L
1.29. Prevention and liquidation of emergencies and natural disasters
emergencies of federal significance           F            F            F
emergencies of federal significance           R          F+R            R
1.30. Civil defense                                  F            F            F
1.31. Telecommunications
post, telegraph                               F          F+H            F
telephone                                     R          R+H            R
1.32. Air traffic service                            F            F            F
2. PUBLIC SERVICES TO POPULATION
2.1. Education
Preschool education                             L          L+H            L
General (school) education (system            F+R           L             L
maintenance)
General education (development programs)        F          F+R          R+L
Boarding schools                              F+R           R             R
Primary and secondary vocational education    F+R         F+R+H           R
Retraining and professional development       F+R          F+R            R
Higher education                              F+R         F+R+H         F+R
2.2. Culture, art, recreation
facilities and programs of federal significance  F       F+H            F
facilities and programs of regional significance  R      R+H            R
facilities and programs of local significance  L         L+H            L
2.3. Health
=___  high specialization (budget-financed)          F           F+H           F
medium specialization (budget-financed)      F+R         R+H            R
general (mandatory health insurance           F          R+L            L
payments)
development programs                          F          F+R           R+L
2.4. Sports



50
Legal     Financing    Provision
Function                  regulation
best achievements and national reserve       F          F+R         F+R
mass-scale and rehabilitation sports         L           L            L
2.5. Social policy
social welfare institutions (boarding houses,  F+R       R          R+L
child's homes, social service and rehabilitation
centers)
youth policy                                R            R            R
Social payments in compliance with federal  F            F          R+L
Legislation
2.6. Pensions                                      F          F+H           F
2.7. Employment policy
unemployment benefits                        F          F+R           R
active labor market programs                R            R            R
2.8. Migration policy                              F           F            F
2.9. Housing sector (housing rehabilitation and    L          L+H           L
maintenance)
2.10. Communal Services                             L          L+H           L
2.11 Local amelioration                            L            L            L
3. POLICY
3.1. National economy regulation
nuclear industry                             F           F            F
fishery                                     F            F            F
antimonopoly policy                          F           F            F
market infrastructure development activities,  R         R            R
Including small businesses
licensing of:
federal activities  F           F            F
____                          regional activities    F+R        R            R
local activities    F+L       L            L
3.2. Production infrastructure operation and development
Road sector:
federal highways                              F            F            F
=___                          regional highways    R            R            R
local roads   L            L            L
Transport:



51
Legal     Financing     Provision
Function                   regulation
trunk-line transport  F            F             F
intercity road and railway  R          R+H            R
passenger transport
local (urban) public transport  L         L+H            L
3.3. Production restructuring
defense industry conversion                   F            F             F
coal sector conversion                        F            F             F
support of priority economy sectors           F            F             F
support of agriculture                        F           F+R          F+R
3.4. State and municipal property management
federal property                              F            F             F
regional property                             R            R             R
municipal property                            L            L             L
4.OTHER FUNCTIONS
4.1. Sovereign debt service                          F            F             F
RF sovereign debt service                     F            F             F
regional sovereign debt service              F+R           R             R
municipal debt service                       F+L           L             L
4.2. Replenishment of state stock and reserves       F            F             F
4.3. Reserve funds (contingencies)
federal                                       F            F             F
regional                                      R            R             R
municipal                                     L            L             L
4.4. Budget adequacy equalization
across regions                                F            F             F
across municipalities                        F+R           R             R
Symbols: Level of government/budget: F - federal, R - regional (RF subjects), L - local (municipalities), to
be further divided into the territorial and settlement-based levels; H - household funds, + - joint powers
(cofinancing).



52
ANNEX 5
Letter of Development Policy on Development of Regional Finances
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FIRST DEPUTY MINISTER
International Bank
For Reconstruction and Development                             November 28, 2001
# 10-08-071/155
Further to letter # 10-08-071/148 dated October 31, 2001 the Ministry of Finance of the Russian
Federation is forwarding to you the Main Areas of the Regional Fiscal Reform Process in the
Russian Federation for the period up to 2005 which will be used to select the subjects of the
Russian Federation and provide funds from the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund. This Fund is created
within the federal budget with the support of the IBRD Loan for Fiscal Federalism and Regional
Fiscal Reforn.
Attachment: above-mentioned - 5 pages
/s/
A.V Ulyukaev



53
Main Areas of the Regional Fiscal Reform Process in the Russian Federation
for the period up to the year 2005
The Main Areas of the Regional Fiscal Reform Process (hereinafter referred to as the Main
Areas) were developed according to the Program of Development of Fiscal Federalism in the
Russian Federation for the period up to the year 2005, which was approved by the Government's
Resolution #584 on August 15, 2001.
The purpose of the regional fiscal reform is to improve budget resource utilization
efficiency, ensure compliance with the requirements of the federal legislation, develop and comply
with higher public finance management standards at regional and local levels.
Therefore, the main areas (sections) covered by a generic Reform Program shall be as
follows:
1) Budget and budgetary process;
2) Interbudgetary relations;
3) Budget expenditure management;
4) Tariff and price policy;
5) Tax and revenue base development;
6) Regional and local debt management;
7) Regional and local property management;
8) Budgetary accounting, reporting, control and audit.
1) Budget and Budgetary Process
The main activities in this area (section) are as follows:
a) inventory and evaluation of budgetary commitments (including those established by
federal laws) as the basis for budgeting and establishing long-term budgetary policy objectives;
b) implementing a system for economic and financial forecasting, development,
implementation and evaluation of mid-term and long-term budgetary policies, setting budgetary
priorities, ensuring long-term budgetary balance and an optimal correlation between current and
capital expenditure, own and borrowed funds;
c) improving validity and accuracy of budgetary planning, reducing the number of budget
revisions within a fiscal year, non-admission of accounts payable emergence or growth, ensuring its
repayment;
d) current and capital expenditure budget separation, establishing a development budget,
development of and compliance with investment process standards, applying formalized methods
for the selection and efficiency assessment of investment projects and criteria for budgetary
funding thereof;
e) transfer to treasury-based regional and local budget execution system ensuring optimally
centralized management of budget resource, improved liquidity thereof, budgetary commitment
accounting, extra-budgetary funds consolidation, ensuring transparency and earmarked utilization
of budgetary and extra-budgetary funds;
f) improving transparency of the budgetary process for representative authorities,
population, investors, creditors and higher authorities.
g) establishing a training and re-training system for regional and local fiscal officials to
encourage them to improve the public finance management efficiency, develop and implement



54
state-of-the-art management methods including those requiring technical assistance and
consultancy services.
2) Inter-Budgetary Relations
Development of fiscal relations between RF subjects and localities shall include the following:
a) improving the budget structure and ensuring an equilibrium between expenditure and
revenue assignments of regional and local budgets;
b) clear cut and sustained distribution of expenditure assignments of regional and local
budgets based on unified criteria and approaches;
c) reducing the number of local budget assignments (not supported by funding sources)
imposed by federal and sub-national laws;
d) differentiation of revenue sources for budgets of various levels on a long-term basis,
establishing unified and sustained rates for allocation from federal and regional taxes to local
budgets;
e) establishing an impartial and transparent system of distributing financial assistance lo
local budgets based on the assessment of tax potential and normalized expenditures of local
budgets;
f) local budget status monitoring, local budget management quality assessment, establishing
incentives for bodies of local self-governnent to improve local finance management efficiency.
It would be advisable to develop and implement activities in the above areas in accordance
with the Temporary Methodological Recommendations to Subjects of the Russian Federation on
Regulating Inter-Budgetary Relations approved by the permanent work group for inter-
governmental fiscal relations reform at the MOF on June 4 and 5, 2000.
3) Budget Expenditure Management
The most significant activities in this area include:
a) establishing and utilizing budgetary funds expenditure criteria in the budgetary practice,
budgetary expenditure efficiency assessment, regular reviews and audit of budgetary expenditure;
b) certification and standardization of public services, implementing formalized
methodologies for full cost (budgetary and extra-budgetary) estimation, quality and accessibility of
public services;
c) ensuring optimal levels of budgetary institution independence, establishing incentives for
such institutions to be oriented towards the final result and effective utilization of budgetary and
extra-budgetary funds;
d) restructuring the budgetary network, state and local unitary enterprises, enhancing and
providing incentives for access of non-state suppliers to the budgetary service market;
e) reducing budgetary subsidies to economy sectors including those to the housing and
utility sector;
f) eventual transfer (with the relevant changes in the federal legislation) from in-kind
benefits to targeted social assistance to the poor;
g) developing the system of regional and local orders and competitive bidding-based
purchasing;
h) improving efficiency of budgetary investments into the public infrastructure;
i) limiting involvement of regional and local authorities in commercial activities.



55
4) Tariff and Price Policy
Tariff and price policy of regional and local governments shall be aimed at ensuring:
a) consumer payments (including those of the population and budgetary institutions) for fuel
and energy and public utilities at an economically justified level;
b) reduction and eventual removal of tariff cross-subsidies, reduction of budgetary tariff
subsidizing;
c) establishment of predictable environment for budget formulation and execution,
coordination and correlation with the budget policy, implementation of a tariff plan into the
budgetary process, introduction of and compliance with consumption limits for fuel and energy
resources and saving thereof;
d) compliance with the federal housing and utility cost and cost recovery standards;
e) refusal to regulate and subsidize prices with the exception of prices for products and
services meeting objective and legislatively established criteria of the regional (local) monopolies.
5) Tax and Revenue Base Development
The main objectives of the tax and revenue base development policy pursued at regional and local
levels are as follows:
a) maintaining favorable and stable tax climate and level playing field;
b) abandoning individual tax benefits and unfair tax competition;
c) consolidated accounting of tax benefits, applying formalized criteria and procedures for
assessing efficiency and validity of such benefits;
d) increasing revenues from regional and local assets, accounting for the proceeds (profit) of
state and local unitary enterprises;
e) developing and applying systemic procedures reducing tax arrears including reduction
through bankruptcy of budget debtors.
6) Regional and Local Debt Management
The main objective in this area (section) is ensuring unconditional fulfillment by regional and
local governments of their debt obligations and increasing the effectiveness of borrowed funds by
means of:
a) combined accounting of regional and local debt;
b) developing and implementing a formalized and transparent debt management procedures,
procedures for debt acceptance, servicing and repayment;
c) applying efficiency criteria for raising and using of borrowed funds;
d) introducing and complying with the parameters of budget deficit, debt burden and debt
servicing expenses at the level not lower than the level established by the federal legislation;
e) balance-sheet accounting of assets and liabilities of the subjects of the Russian Federation
(localities).
7) Regional and Local Asset Management
The main activities in this area (section) are as follows:
a) developing and implementing a mid-term regional (municipal) asset management strategy;
b) effective privatization of regional and local property including state and local unitary
enterprises;



56
c) developing and applying management and utilization efficiency assessment criteria for
regional and local assets;
d) inventory and accounting (cadastres) of regional or locally owned land allotments and real
estates.
8) Budgetary Accounting, Reporting, Monitoring and Audit
The following activities shall be performed within the framework of this area (section):
a) development of and compliance with standards for the disclosure of information on budget
formulation and execution, fiscal position of the subjects of the Russian Federation (localities),
budget management and public service delivery quality;
b) preparation and stage-by-stage transfer to the international standards of budgetary
reporting, accounting and government finance statistics;
c) acquiring and maintaining credit ratings, participation in regional and local finance
monitoring programs;
d) regular independent (external) audit of the budget, budgetary institutions, state and local
unitary enterprises, other assets of subjects of the Russian Federation and localities and publication
of such audit results.



57
MJJHHCTEPCTBO PiHHAHCOB                          FPOCCH}5CKOn <E,ZI4EPAIlMH
flEPBbl l
3AMECTI4TEJlb MI4HUCTPA
103097. M.xry. mir y K. 9               bAeKyHapoxamblx PaHK
T    Ln: 112008
925-08-P9                   paROlCTpySTIXUMiI H pa3sHmrH
__    _  _  N _Y   . 1 ' O/     ..2
1-1.    1*            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
r     n r 
L,   'J             B  Xrt1noinFTeH14e xc flmCiMy  OT  31.10.2001  r. Nl10-08-071/148
*SiI4UIHCT8rpCTIBo  CI>UMl-aHCO    PoCCsri"CXOPI  CCeACpa,uss1    manpanhjrcr
OcmaosHibtxe Hanpauxi ens4  pC43opmNpoBamti, permo"anuHmbix pdaTHaitCOB B
Pocc4ikcxoti EdeAepaLJHu   i-Ta  -epmo4A ,o 2005 ro.za, coT-ropboI  6yzyr
i4cnoflOa30xsBamc-n rlp1  o-r6ope  cy45w.escron PocxCSaCtoR  cD.ezxepaiun4 3
rpe,Aoc-raTnjemHI     opealCTr  cD3oHm1a  peclopmt4posa184   perysoHamabmix
,HI}amoCO, cbopmv4pyemaro  B  cocraae  4ceepanuHoro  6azixKe-Ta npT
no,uAcpau<e 3aRma NMPP Ha pa3amTHe (5oAwerrTHOro 4eAepann3Ma H
pcq3opNHponaH4rs permom-an.s-ibx c4114aHcoa.
Flpmnro2ReHm   y        y    - r Ha 5 n.
Tl--rog 29rem9 3nn1,a ._
To4cMoe: 298] 92 93



58
O Oci-joni-' hI a FlnPa n_ie.-llfSl pe4opMop     poaaflS.   peF4OHaJ S IX   Ht-a LCOB
a POCCHAiCKCOA <Dezepaus4 I-oa nepwo.a AO 2005 ro2a
OcEIOaI3Ftwe HanpanneHT Ppe4bOPMMPiO1aaula pernomaimlnba  4HHNaxICO3 (,tanee
FcimeHyioTcs  - OcHoamT.xe  HarrpaunjeHH5) pa3pa6o-ram-u   Ha  ocioBe  rlporpammbi
PB3a1SfVtX 6lor>cmoro 4eCnepaYrc 3ba% a Poccidicxott cDcAepaekHH Ha riepHoa zo 2005
ro,a, ozno6peHrHTio  foc-aHonner-Hc.4 IIpanHejxbcTBa PocC1czcKa5O  4weAepau-iH or 15
aarycTa 2001 r. Ns 584.
lleJiom   pc4opMH:poBaw-m pernHomammxx 4>maHmcon  3tnAe0Tcm riosurmne 1e
3cd?eIerH3s*ocGTH x4crTony30osa1x4  6xoamKAc-r-tbrx pecypcoB.  o6CeCne'eHk!e co6njoAxetqmx
TpeGosaxiHik, yCTaHoBhleHHm-Ix  cj)eaCepaJlbHb[M  3axoFl-OaaTeCIlCTaOM, pa3paSToca  H
co6juo.actiiie 6oJxiee BbIclCornx c-mrnzap-rox ynpaaineHruA o6te cTmeFHf*rImm 44HH a-caMm
I-Hl pcrxHoHa]hHoM UH MCCTHOPA ypOn T-CX.
C Orne-rC-rae -l-tiO  OCHOB HbLF4 H HarlPaBrlalc-iMm  (paaAenaMFX) pe43OPMUPOBnaH}m
srBI1T-OT'CR 
1) 610zDIrce-r " 6f0;xZ>ReeTHLTl nporrecc;
2)  oei6K)I-JExLyC 0-rTuIexi4n;
3) y-1paaneixHe 6xo,u*ce-ruurMH pacxozafm;
4) rap)Jr-Tasr m uxeCosa  nojiHTHxa.
5) pa3Bwrme HaJxoroToft H I OXOA1Og 6a3bl,
6) ynpanneite rocy,.apcTBeHT.ILm H4 MyvrmxvmamhHxTM -gonroM;
7) yripaDneHT-c rocyAtapcTrHeHTToHI H M4yHwxrffTrazH0 Co 6CTo6 eru,oCTLI'O6
8) 6roxmicriHx1 y-ioT. oT-tc-r*OcSTr6, TIcoHTpom 1{ ayHxc;m.
2)  wozcer v  61o4ITLE   i npouecc
OCiiOI a~mii~i~eporxpx-tamMfm    unZHnoro Hanpaaj-reH-m (pa3sxena) mnnaioTrcRi
a) I.lEI-xi'apn311  11 oIlemnca 6}i0oCTHcEr,TX  o6m3a.-remec-rB. B -IOM   cice -
yC-ta HOarneTtTlm6lX 0.3ezCpajim1-I.FM*t 3aKOHaMIm, max OCHo8bl 4 opirpoBaimz 6to17e'roo  H
yCTa.NoBJreHHH AOnrOeCpO'-xlHbTX L10J1eni 6EoXUICOT-O0 rr nOnTKU;
6) BHC;xpeHeC CHOTCMemI 3covxo--CCl0oro TH cj(8ca0cosoro rrPOrHO3"OpBa14HA.
a ',pa6o0iCiH,  pCaY3aalXjHH  Hl  OrXCeltic  BLIF6OJMHCfH"A  CpCIXle-  K  xtOJTrocpo04HIKO
6TroxazcemHokf  flo0lrmcH, ycTaHoBJIcHHsm  6i5io,meTKaD(x  YpIrop TeToB. os ec e.eieneun
.zxo1Trocpo'1Hoft  c6astaHcHposanuownTH  6AoceT-a  H  olxTmnaiThoro  cooi0Tiome m4
TCKyuc H "  lrmCTicIIHTOOI-T  paCXOSOa., C06CTmeH-Tl blX H 3aeMHbIX CpeRC.TB;
a) r6ooanxeHr-fe o60CHOjan    oc-niK n TO'mOCTH  6,zDcrTHoro rLnai-nPozans,.
coIKpaUXeIMC   lHcxxa  rrepecorpoD  6foziceTa  n3 TrenefmTe  4nuiaHconoro  roga,
HeLizonyJeIHHe   B03HM<II OBCHH1R  '"-a    poc ra   KpeLHT0opccKoR   3atxo.raieffmoc-r-H,
oSecrl-e'leHe cc rioramenn5w;
r)  pas.senc3-ye  6;oArce-ra  Texyuzwx  H   IIIIT&ITl-TX  paCxo;101x, CO3rtaH11e
615o,EEzicera  pa.n3111,rP. p a3pa6oTwrn  H  ca6x-oxcxi*rxc  CT-JaIinpTOr nm 1BCTHUiib0ro



59
np OU4-cca,   npvEmiuenme   d?op4asrH:3oaBa1fnoVl  mC-roxHcm         oT6opa   Hi  OU.eHik.
ac,en KrHHocTIF    CC          OH      npocKTO., xpmirepmen ic 4bHxaaRc*ipOc )iH-AA 3a c'ie-r
6(oK0AvCCTliBr cpcICIB;
zx) nepexoA Ic Yca3Ha-crcfco f cHec'eMe HcrIoJiHeHm  pCrHo nab   H  ACCTHbT
6Iox4KeTron.   o6ecnemumotuev    O=nr-irM aml6yio   tIlcTl-rp a 3a.xIO    yTrpaxine-rl4A
51o.rnce-rx-rLrM    pecypczabf.  noslbrel ne *c  1HxKn21Oc'rH,  y'eT   6xoDxceiirHrrx
o6r3aaremucTn, RorAcojtHsxaimo nHe6Oipc6r.eTrxLx cpctxc-rB, o6errC'eicHHC tppo3paM-IocTH
u Lxexteaoro Hcnon-I30osaIIH 6xo-ztce-rEx  in De6Ivamex"THx cpecrcTa;
C)  ItoBi.:Ie-cm e   npo3pa-uxnicrm   6*omrnceTHoro   npouecca   Wru!  opranon
r pe,lclTaBHTeXLbHOf BiTaCTI. uFacenekjV!. i-n-BecrTOpOn r xpextTrropos, sbxtuec GroAfxT4x
opramoB nrnacTW.
W) CO3ZIaFMe CHCTeMbl YTO,UOTOBKN )H nOBLJIIUHH-W F{BaJLj4lnLCau4T  Ppa6T ormxrxO
perHoHajILHmxEC n MCCTiibTX d2HHaHCOT.Tx opral-lOB, Tx opHeTeraU1    Ha nTl3BTnrcH.e
34i4CT1CTHHOc~TH ynpai3neHi^TfR o6xLxec-mec-i6rmu 4tHTancamP!, p apa6o0Tly H Bu{eA.peHEte
COTpeMeTllHbfX MeTO,lIOB yrrpABneHHTX, B TOM 'AHMCnC - C XnpHuTCeMeKHCM rexlHH'-eCKoA
nomontmH H xOncyn-braIxx4Oiu-wlX ycrTyr.
2) Nler5OuoItofCT-.o     UIeCHHsU
Pa3uBTwtc    a%4OT'08O-6O1,WECeTHTBT,X   zfti3ElNO OTHOIUeHr   M:e,>i    cyDIe ircaM H
PocC* ACKAOHf   cbex%ep8.axx1     H    MYHIHIIH4naJIEHbM4H   o6pa3oiamoMm'r  ixonactio
TrpexycaaTpBaTE.:
H)    ypllJlo-eil-me        6io.xwe-moro       yCrporic'rBa     H      06ecneqeHl4e
c6aM8UacHpcTBarTHoCTH   AA eW-Ay   paCXOAMjMwH   o6K3aTcejcT TamNI   H    (I OJXO2omf>I-I
wC-rOqFHMXa.m  pe rOHtajThHTiD  H MeCTIfbIx 610mLCTO1;
6)  'je-moe   T4   craGmna lrooe   pa3ipafHpfreRHe   paCXO2ZFl.x   rrlomHoMoMi4A
pePrOHvitl-EOrO li MeCTm,x 6*ozaCerou Ha oCttoH e C.amHrIbX TCpE4repmCB H nozxou1D0;
a)  CoiCpaUcmHie  iso3sioxceC1Ittw   i-Ea  MCCTHLIC  a6xouDice-rLi  peCAepamTvIbxmH
3axo"aHEnsI,  3ax<caa.Mx-H  cy6& ewTom  POVCC11icoja  K3elAepalUXT4   o6ft3aTXebcrTsa  i-Ie
o6ccnc'em1E,   roTWaNH 4<aaicHpoiaF ;
r) paarpa.x-mcHHme AOXOImnrX  HCTOMo       OB 6toA)i(CTOE3 pa3HTX YPoB HHe  Ha
,xkOGnOCpO.IlOf  0CH0O1e,  yCThHOBielme   CooflHitIX   U   cTaa6mlHbVc  HopMa-rHOH
oTaHcJ1e1F1rA oT qCbcCpaHjx&HJx H-t peryfometh,ix HanoroB B 6 C T  F
o6paitonal-TH.It;
Ar)  Co3Zraui-e   o6xewiEHBIlOn   H   npo3pa'Hok   CHCTCmbI  pacrrpezcenetn-A
t)lff{21J1COHOt50 TIONIoluxi  MCCNeITIIJM   6loxtmcmzi  Ha  OaCHOD C  olleHOIc  HanoroBorO
flOTC 1Ha.a HI HOpNfa-rNBH[I6DC pa.cxOZron MecTC-rarX 610.KeCT0on;
e) MoH34TopHir COCSOwffHM tfec-HbLX 61o0E3KcT3oo, oucrHiy uaqccrma ynrpaanerni
610wf.e-razxi iHyr snax        rn   o6paaonauHmA.  co03aaae  c-rTHIJyoD  Arn-t  OpraHOn
MecT,Horo   Ca..OyTrpa.Zl eHX45t   no   nOBTIIIIICHHIO    14eICTT1:BlOCEi   ynpaunCHHtil
MyyHHZrHrranhbHrTSn4 H 43r-ra c a mI.
2



60
P a3pa6orlcy   1 pcanmH3aul1nO  MCpOnp"CETHuk  no  yxaEIaIuHjrj  HarIpaUlselimlm
txenecoo6pasFro  rrpoaOAmrT6  B  COOTrCTCTrH%i C  BpeMe1ffflMH   m eToafeCKIMH
pCKOMC"t{Aauw  MmM   cy6hek-raM    PoccIAcKof   4DeXrepatoam   no   perynmpoDaHMo
mew36tooAe-rkIaIx o-roTHorueIAu   oAo6peHHz-um pemettmem vyoc-rcomuTo Aetcryluoierf TipH
Mx*c4)He  PaccH;n  pa6o'etk   rpynmbi  no  pespopmtrpovaaHmo   ucM6Toxme'rlbix
oTnHOmet or 4-5 iHoun 2000 ro,Aa.
3) Yrupaa.re"ize                  pacxoAeTHa.uM.. p aAO tM
K EUaH6ooIee 3a-xa4mmLM  MepoUpNATaM  ,aHntworo HarypaBJeHHR OTrHOCrTCR:
a) 4'3OpM]4pOSa3i-He H  MCflOJM.30OPaHe B 6<>ne'rHoi% n-pairriHe xpHrTpUCa
pacxozmoioai-mw 6xouxce-rxjmrx epeAe-ra., oTxeHC  34JeIc'LocTH pacxonoa, rTpo0Bcre*evc
perynWpIImxx o6cne.onaaiHjSA m. ayamTa 6lox?eTrIKyX pacxo.aoJ;
6) riacriopT-rm3aLum  H  cTflH*apTHn3almx  oGu4ecmTe*ncrx ycnyr. sHcflpe  c
jIopMaJr3oxBaKHvfxxx  me-roxan    oLteHFxm  norxHoC  (6xogulreTIrxo    H  afie6yo2P*CeTFO A)
CTOWMOCTH, katecrCTa I4 zioc-yrrmocrT o6nxeccTeHirx ycayr;
-)  o6ccneteI-xtc  onTan-Lroro  ypoDu  camocToxTenJ"oc-ITi 6ioJpKeTubtx
Y*pCeeeX-ri, Co3xaWrHe  W  HU1X CTH-MyflO a Vn apmcirraIumm wa IcOHe'.n-!T,x pe3ynL6raT
M4 3d)de&CT-Ir*1Oe HCrIOJTh3carH 610 K1CC ix,Xr H ae6l tCetlr cpenci-a;
r) rnpo3eeZeHEHe PeCTPyrypH3atfLIM  61OAzceTHoHi  CelTH, rocyxapc-rBcHIun1x  a4
MytulmaaJT6Hlix  yHw-rapH-Wx   npe.rrpKitarr.  pacLunpCeHe  m  ca3lUyJ%HpoRaajH4e
RocTyna "crocyxLapc-rBcux-4brx nocTasBuHxoas Ha pl6HOK 6boJxceTH1urx ycnyr.
,x) co*cpa=eHIe 61o0.czxrrLrx Ao'ra.EtHPf o-pacJivi  3xonoMm<TIC, is ToNA 'Hcne -
{JHriHuxFHro-xommyHaInEThorffy xo3arcTury;
e)  nepexoxt.  no  maepe  H3MCHCHHa  ceAepaxrIwsoro  3axoHoaToac Tc-ra.  o-r
If a-ryp ajmHx IhroT ic azxpecHoH  COUlHaflI6mOH nOMoIUX mannofmymHM  rpaacLatiaat
NC)   pa3BH4-HC  Cc1CTMem3b  rocylI pCTmeHioro  H  NrywHmLtnaamdforo  3aKaxa Hi
IcoHlCypCHbIX 3wMyflOIC
3) nOBMCetHC 3C4c4exTHe socTu 6 cemnx.Drx kHmecT-rLZHg St o6uIxecTBemHylo
r43pacrpyicYpy;
H) oxpa&rtH-C1Hc   y-racTm   ro eyAapcraewrnx4x  n  nam TX    opraHon
anacrTH B 1coxat-epsscKot3A AearexHoc-rH
4) TapH4hwtasH   1 uetionas nojroi-ur"tca
TapH4HaMA rH lenloBaS ronYrTmiHa permoHanzbtIcrx H mccra-*     opraHoHD iJlacrm
aOfvKcH&a 6hrrl. apJieHTm-rpoanHa FHa:
a) orinary  IrOTpC616TCJIEcmH, H  TOM   THC3e1  HaCaJlceIHeM   H  61xox,WerTmmH
y1Tpa>r-acAHmuH. ror.rxnlro-3aHeprerHIecKHizc pecypcoa   H ILOx My%qy.flanBT-    ycflyr Hfa
3 HOHOMteC K  O      306 -10 B13EflfOM ypO3He.
6) co0cpauXXemI-e *1 yc-rpa-HeilHe nClpciCpcCHoro  Cy6CHI4aXpOBaFrM  TaA    p rappou,
coxpanxei-cme 6&0AxceT7-Oro cy6cmaporaaaHs Tapi-cFoB;



61
n)  cos.namtc rr,p e.f;cuCyeMwC ycnonugt  ,s  opMFcposain  Hf HCrl cH
6IfoycclTOB, xoopA-IxIaXCtO  H  ylBfl3Fy  c 6ioAzwe-rofl noxm-nrro*e, sfepelHC 
6toD)4ccrnzvoA npouecc  rapf4.3Horo xlJtaHa, ycTraCxo1Hnce H co6nio,eiee nn 4fMTos
no-rpe6ncenA TonnaaH0o-3HepreTHMectcflx pecypcon a   nmc 3xOncOMHn;
r)    co6naoaenne  4eAcpamniurx  cTanAapTon  ce6eo-ranmoc-m  ScHJ=ufH-
EcoCEmN)amILHb1K ycJTyr H Nyc  oalla-sy itaCeneIOieM;
A) OTaS3 OT Prpery1HpoSaH8 x U cy6cHnpofanw  gem 3ca IcXCJuoeHCM u.em Ha
nTpo,nyxltx4o   H   ycxI3r3H.  OTBCtlaBoIEnHM   O6laClTmaSmb  H   aajcoiio.aaTenioHO
yCTaSHCnleImbIM Kparepnsrm perHonaaxaun.rx (noicanintax) MAoHonoCfOi.
S) Pa3SHTHC .tar'oroaofli s noxona ofl Gamut
OcnonanFrn 3SaAS'Ia mm rlpoComrfotk ma perHCoHa.iToM  Hs meCTCom ypWoCatx
non0rraic rno paaahrrio nanorono$t H fCXofoxoIi 6a3u: OJiMrTCA:
a) noDaapncaxnbe  Gnaronpnsarn-oro  U  cra6unm6oro  Hanoronoro  xJun4aTa,
poaxx ycnosBil coacypeHrumd,
6)  OT1Ca3  CT  lpeOxacTahhhTcHifl  FCmHWaHnyanLnx.6x  nauioroCl6c  naror  f
H e,o 6poconecnMofl nanoronofl KCCypenTwH;
a)      TcoHCChLTctYporaSSIUj-.lr   y-leT   HaflCroCSrx  mnroCT,   npnmeneHxMe
- - pMamnl&3SULA- iq4fl'sepfla-.1!- ll ip................y.......z XO.-C144CA  n>ft r1h4ec nocm   H
o6ocnonaunwoc,rt;
r)   noul-lnenae   AoXoCfxo    OT   roCyAxapCTBeinoJC 14  MyHX*lUsr
co6crm eMHocnTr, y'e-r  oxoxnon (np3ni6iu6uf  rocygafpcTr3enn.nc 1 MyFrHaIflnaJnyibH6x
ylnrraprrix npcATxxp a-rmaf
a) pa3paGorxa H rp MeOUeCie CnCTcMn3.ix npoChetCjyp cowCpauIeHIH   HBaSororCoBO
CeZLoHmiG   TOM tfficfne - 3a c'er 6arncpo-rcna flAonXmfraucoB 6wzrncera.
6) 3-npamnsegste arocynaspc-u-sen6-" 14 hoyItnansH6   aonro
Ocnosnloi cia4aqeti nanworo nanpauneans (pa3aaeyta) fWaae-rcs o6ccneqeame
6e3ycxzo snoro nabminoane n AKonrosnLx C6aa-reaenbc-rs per-omHanJThHDx  IH merCTHLTx
SALMHHxmcTpaixUI   H nOBSXC1IHA S CKTSHOCTH  ClCJrBoaa   3aeI-fblCrc  fpe.raCTs
a3)  pratus3axun  y'c-ra comoxCynnioro rocyAapc-rse:-riora H mYMhuLmaSJuHoro
6) pa3pa6a 0cH II nHezpemia  @opmanso30faanHHOtk n npo3paxnofl rrpozze.aypxb
ynpaBnnexns floatOM, ETipoxewyp npmxnurn5. o6cny.xmaauc: H nOral cmC}fi YUOSroBLDC
o6GSaaTenxc Hn a;
B) nPwTCHeHIn   KIcp    BCpHcr ap XJCICTIxHOCT  IIPHBubCICHc  H   CnOaLaoaya
3aSe m-miL cpCzxCTS;
r) ycanonen    H co6mnoAcit napamerpoas ac4@rH-ra 6axnKc-ra, AopnrosoAi
Ha[rPY3si. pacxonon Ha o6ony2wsanle Aoalra iTa ypouHO i-Ce mmlke ycCT&xHoSnJIeCLx
qbenepamFnsrmt S&acon- Soaa-reamc-rnau
4



62
A) Beke*EH  6ananIcoboro y-C-ra o6a3a-reCboTr H fawflBos cy6r-uetcra Pocc!lcxcoPt
4cVeApa3=K  (my*lrzUuiT iia.oro 06pa30osaHaUr).
7) Vnp2anevesie rocyAapcTareuuoh4 P NytIunnanb-o  Co0CTFSeCl'"OCToLO
OcuoiHsmorm  ieporrpxm-rrmm  .taloro marxpaienlm (p&acsAna) qsBIAoTrcsl:
a)  BSVfpa6OTIca  U  peaCan3lSW*    Cpe.UfeCpoillHol    cTpaTeref  yrpalsneHlH
ro CryAapc-rscrUork (My3uHv=ifajxa  ofi) co6cm*emocTrl;
6)  34Jcwr%muHao  nTpwBwDa'r* axS       rocyOCy eapCTBseymof    H   xfyTr"=sMa.nHO A
co6c-ruenklocTri, a Tro)  mcnxe - rocy.zEapcTmweHi6  H                      ymIalIblX  TTapHm1x
rrpeAxvrp3Lmix;
a) p-spa6cyTKB H ntpKmeCHc*c xpUTepnes oucC  3@CImpaHOCTH yneMAA
14 mcAon3OuaxB-Lw  rocy,apcmrBew"oA Ft IyHnllJUEHOi7 Co6CTo5i3cocTr-r
r) HeH:!-treapH3ax4     H  ueAeIn(e y'{eTa (KaaacTpoB) 3CMCtlba4brx yac-mcoB,
o&&eirKTOB  HCABHHmoCTrr'r. Haxo.IIxzHxcm  B rocyxgapc-Trei-Horl H MAytHmnfna1LRog
8) 1&aAucerNi6v4 3"4S, 0y0TlTHoCTB., COHTpoj1h H ay,
B pamwax, AaI4oro HarxpavnemmA (pa3nena) rrpoBo.zTrcw:
a)  pa3pa6oTrca  ,.4  co6moaetme  cTa*=tap-roa  paoHp trrs  *HH4?opMaiLJH     o
4>OpMJLpona"Hm    H  Hcrnojun4HNI4  6w.Rv4ceTa.  CHHaiCOBOM   COCTOA4H   cyi6-eK-ra
Pc>ccngcHKOikt <CAcpalxxuv (Mylttumram6xuoro  o6pasoaaktum), xa-iec-TBc yUpaEn eHH,,
6IFO,lzce1araH H rpexocTanene-c   o6oxeceitenitrc ycnyr;
6)  lorolrTorftx   H  noiTvtxvvuIA  rcpceOA  K  MeCAWkH*yapOA*rrfT   cTaH- &pTaZm
6ia2zu-eTHoAi oT'4e7wocHf, 6yxraJrrepcxHpro  y'era  Hy C.ThCTH*C14  065Ixec-reIneJ-brix
j?HHHaCO;,
a) TioJry'enuHc 1 tKo.ep a Icpe,i(rflIc  peikTsHrou, ytarcT1e B  ipor-pammaX
MOMT,-nOplx3rA perMOHJla3wXI.SX" MrCCTlIWX 1HaHCOB;
r)  peryfnApExoe  npoueOAeCe  H  rry6anmcau&n  pe3ySm'raTon  He3aHRCwMOrO
(Dex-yertero) ayAwra  6fo;l(esaa, 5JOeTMX  y4peBemAHHA, rocyzxapcTBcHHi"rX  H
HyIxR1aaxnsc ykrHrapvu.x TnpeA pTHs'tHr, mmw  alCU0Oa cy6i.exrM a PocCHeCxorl
CVCXCPaUAM H IT  YnUvnaaMmIKTx 06pa3OBHa]54.
: vR ~ I ~fg \                                                                         5



63
ANNEX 6
Annex 6a Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fisca Reform Loan: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
1st Tranche              2nd Tranche          3rd Tranche         Monitoring & evaluation:        Monitoring &
(US$40m)                  (US$40m)             (US$40m)            Short-term indicators           evaluation:
March 2002                March 2003           March 2004                                            Outcome
Indicators
Assuring overall framework for fiscal federalism is sufficient to provide basis for effective regional reform.
1) Reduce         Funding for:
unfunded              *  child allowances,
mandates faced by     *  disabilities
subnational levels    *  Chemobyl
of government.            victims,
*  Heroes of the
Russian
Federation,
*  victims of political
repression
taken on by central
government.
2) Enhancement of  -100 percent of PIT to be
revenues raising    allocated to consolidated
capacity of       regional budgets
regional
governments.      -Regional governments
have rate setting authority
over one significant tax
(within a band).
3) Improve        -Continued application of
stability and     improved methodology for
transparency of   allocation of Fund for
transfers.        Financial Support to the
Regions.
-Clear allocation
mechanism for
Compensation Fund
(targeted conditional
transfers).



64
Annex 6a Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan; Policy Refo ms Program Matrix
I't Tranche               2nd Tranche           3rd Tranche          Monitoring & evaluation:         Monitoring &
(US$40m)                   (US$40m)              (US$40m)             Short-term indicators            evaluation:
March 2002                 March 2003            March 2004                                              Outcome
.__________________________   _______________________________________________   _____________________________________  in d ic a to rs
Strengthen Regional Fiscal management. Support efforts to promote transparency, budgetary accountability and strengthened fiscal management in the
Regions.
Activation of      -Agreement on operational  -Operation of RFRF along   -Operation of     RFRF resources allocated in the    -Significant
Regional Fiscal    principles of the RFRF that  agreed modalities.       RFRF along        budget.                            improvements in
Reform Fund        are acceptable to the Bank.                           agreed                                               regional fiscal
(RFRF) to support  -Line item in the 2002     -Line item for RFRF in     modalities.                                          management in
regions that have    budget for RFRF.         2003 budget.                                                                    those regions that
undertaken fiscal                                                        -Line item for                                       have received
reforms.                                                                 RFRF in 2004                                         resources from the
budget.                                              RFRF. Improved
fiscal balance,
reduced debt,
greater
transparency and
better budget
management.
Areas of fiscal &  Regions for cohort I & 2   Regions for cohort 3                         Regions submit assessments as part   Up to 27
budgetary          present applications and   present applications and                     of application process. Acceptable    acceptable
management         reform programs to         reform programs to                           programs submitted for each region.  programs
weakness           Ministry of Finance based    Ministry of Finance based                                                     proposed.
identified in      upon agreed methodology    upon agreed methodology
regions.           covering: i)Budget         covering: i)Budget
process; ii)Tax policy; iii)  process; ii)Tax policy; iii)
Expenditure management;   Expenditure management;
iv) Intergovernmental      iv) Intergovernmental
relations within the region;  relations within the region;
v) Debt management and     v) Debt management and
vi) Information & Audit.    vi) Information & Audit.



65
Annex 6a Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan; Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Ist Tranche           2nd Tranche            3rd Tranche            Monitoring &           Monitoring &
(US$40m)               (US$40m)               (US$40m)               evaluation:           evaluation:
March 2002             March 2003             March 2004         Short-term indicators    Outcome indicators
Regions implement    Regions for cohort I    Regions for cohort 2   Regions for cohort 3    Up to 15 regional fiscal  Improved fiscal
reform programs.     implement phase I of    implement phase I of    implement phase I of   reform programs       balances and fiscal
their reform programs.   their reform programs    their reform programs  implemented.       management in up to 15
and regions in cohort I    regions for cohort 2                      regions.
Measurement of         complete program       complete program        See Annex Table 6b on
implementation based on  implementation.      implementation.         criteria for measuring    See Annex Table 6b for
reaching targets agreed                       -Prior Bank approval for  performance.        detail on outcomes.
upon in regional reform    Measurement of     Release of funds to
program in the following  implementation based on  cohort 3 for completion
areas:                 reaching targets agreed    of program.
-Budget process        upon in regional reform
-Tax policy            program in the following  Measurement of
-Expenditure           areas:                 implementation based on
Management             -Budget process        reaching targets agreed
-Intergovernmental     -Tax policy            upon in regional reform
relations within the   -Expenditure           program in the following
region                 Management             areas:-
-Debt management       -Intergovernmental     -Budget process
-Information & Audit    relations within the  -Tax policy
(criteria specified in  region                -Expenditure
Table 1/Annex Table    -Debt management       Management
6b).                   -Information & Audit    -Intergovernmental
(criteria specified in  relations within the
Table I/Annex Table    region
6b).                  -Debt management
-Information & Audit
(criteria specified in
Table 1/Annex Table
6b).



66
Annex 6b: General Framework for Measurin Re ional Performance
Objective                   Criteria for Measuring               Expected outcomes
Performance
1. Budget process: extend coverage   Conformity of regional budget to  Regional budgets standardized along
of the budget and improve the clarity   Budget Code.                  lines of legislation.
and methods of budget process.
Consolidation of extra-budgetary  No extra-budgetary funds at the
funds into the regional budget.   regional level.
Separation of budget into current and   Greater transparency over capital
capital components.               budgeting.
Introduction of medium-term       Medium-term plan/forecasting for
financial planning.               budget and macro-variables.
Assessment of preferences, grants-in  Preferences/exemptions/subsidies
aid & subsidies. Move toward      become transparent and are reduced
payment of benefits rather than   and over time replaced by payment of
granting of preferences.          benefits.
Introduction of satisfactory Treasury   Improved management, execution
execution of budgets.             and transparency of the budget.
2. Tax policy: systematize tax policy   Conformity of regional tax system to   Regional tax policy consistent with
in regions so that it is consistent with  federal legislation.       federal legislation.
federal legislation, encourages
transparency & mobilization of     Reduction in regional tax arrears.  Tax arrears approach zero (remainirig
revenues and discourages arrears.                                    related only to insolvency issues).
Reduction in non-cash payment of
taxes.                             100 percent cash payment for taxes.
Process for granting tax exemptions    Process transparent, helps promote
legalized and limited.             "level playing field."
Establish basis for property tax by  Property rights are registered and
developing property rights        protected.
registration.
3. Expenditure Management:         Development of spending priorities.  Improved allocation of resources.
Improve overall use, allocation and
mechanics of expenditure.         Reduce wage arrears to budget      Wages arrears for budgetary
employees.                        institutions do not exceed I month
pay and are brought to zero over
time.
Methodology for evaluating        Improved effectiveness of resources
efficiency & effectiveness of      over time.
expenditures put in place.
Over 70 percent of budget
Implementation of clear procurement  expenditures on goods & services is
procedures, including competitive  awarded through tenders.
bidding and full informnation on bids
and results published in mass media.   Full information on competitive



67
and results published in mass media.   bidding and tenders available in mass
media.
4. Intergovernmental system within  Legislation detailing expenditure  Expenditure responsibilities are clear.
region: improve clarity and       authority between regional and local
predictability of resource flows  administrative levels.
between regions and local
governments.                      Reduction in regional un-funded    Regional unfunded mandates
mandates (to local governments.)  approach zero over time.
Standard rates of revenue assignment  Increased predictability on revenue
(sharing) across region.          side.
Clear methodology for allocating  Allocation of resources to local
transfers.                        governments transparent and
predictable.
5. Debt management: improve       Introduce consolidated accounting for  Quantification and transparency of all
information base and management of  all regional liabilities.        debt liabilities.
debt.
Reduce overdue debt liabilities (and    Reduce overdue debt liabilities and
accounts payable).                accounts payable to below 20 percent
of budget revenues.
Draw up consolidated schedule of
payment for debt payments.         Pay liabilities in cash on time and in
full.
Analysis of debt capacity based on
anticipated revenue flows.         Clear measure of borrowing capacity
established.
6. Information & Audit: assure    Public dissemination of budget.    Budget published through mass
adequate auditing of use of public                                   media and internet to encourage
resources.                        Implementation of audits by        public accountability.
independent auditors an a systematic
basis.                             Strengthen information base and
accountability concerning use of
Audits publicly available.         funds.



68
ANNEX 7
REGIONAL FISCAL TECHNICAL ASSSITANCE PROJECT (RFTAP)
1.    As noted in the President's Report, a key element of the Fiscal Federalism & Regional
Fiscal Reformn Loan (FFRFRL) is implementation of its predecessor operation, the Regional Fiscal
Technical Assistance Loan (RFTAL). The RFTAL is a US$30.0 million technical assistance
project which aims to build institutional capacity in six select regions of the Russian Federation.
These regions in turn will compete for funds under the FFRFRL. The list of regions includes:
Vologda Oblast, Samara Oblast, Belgorod Oblast, Chelyabinsk Oblast, Khabarovsky Krai, and the
Republic of Chuvashia. A seventh region, St. Petersburg City, was subsequently added to the
FFRFRL's first cohort of competitors, but is not eligible for technical assistance under the RFTAL.
2.    Specifically, the RFTAL seeks to build institutional capacity to advance the reform of inter-
governmental fiscal relations and improve fiscal performance at the sub-national level within the
participating regions. To meet these objectives, the project has four sub-goals:
*  improve the existing legal framework of inter-governmental fiscal relations;
*  create a fiscal incentive mechanism to improve the regions' compliance with existing federal
laws and regulations;
*  strengthen the Government's capacity to monitor sub-national fiscal performance and reform
efforts; and
- strengthen institutional capacity of sub-national governments for carrying out fiscal and
structural reforms.
3.    The project is financing four components to achieve these objectives: (i) Strengthening of
Federal Legislation on Inter-Governmental Fiscal Relations; (ii) Strengthening of Federal Fiscal
Monitoring Capacity; (iii) Regional Reform of Accounting and Budget Practices; and (iv) Sectoral
Public Expenditure Reviews.
4.    Strengthening of Federal Legislation on Inter-Governmental Fiscal Relations (US$2.4
million). The development and implementation of the Government's fiscal reform agenda requires
substantial efforts in improving the current legal framework for inter-governmental relations. The
legal research and drafting efforts are focused on high-priority themes, such as inventory of the
current assignment of revenue and expenditure responsibilities between the federal, regional and
local governments; analysis of different options for the reform of inter-governmental transfers;
drafting of federal regulations for monitoring sub-national fiscal performance; design of formula-
based equalization transfers for the regions; and analysis of the consistency and compatibility of
existing legislation on inter-governmental fiscal relations.
5.    Strengthening of Federal Fiscal Monitoring Capacity (US$14.8 million). This component
finances the technical and human resources needed to implement the technical assistance envisaged



69
under the loan, to increase the Government's institutional capacity for the design, implementation
and monitoring of the reform of inter-governmental relations and regional fiscal management, as
well as to support monitoring of regional implementation of fiscal reform programs.
6.    Regional Reform of Accounting, Budgetary Process and Institutions (US$10.1 million).
This component supports the development of sub-national government best budgeting and financial
reporting standards which account for off-budgetary liabilities, introduce expenditure accounting
on the accrual basis, and distinguish between current and capital expenditures, between budget
expenditures and deficit financing, and between debt service and the repayment of principal.
7.    Sectoral Public Expenditure Reviews in the Regions (US$2.4 million). Fiscal adjustment
at the sub-national level is linked to the success of regional structural reforms. Current patterns of
regional budget expenditures -including unsustainable subsidization- indicate that structural
reforms in the regions have been slower than anticipated. This component assists participating
regions with the development and implementation of expenditure reform plans by financing a
number of public expenditure reviews. These primarily focus on the sectors which have been the
largest recipients of subsidies from consolidated regional budgets, such as housing and utilities,
agriculture, public transportation, education and health. The reviews are expected to result in
prioritization of budget expenditures, identification of expenditure programs and projects with
lower priority, introduction of appropriate pricing policies and identification of potential for cost
recovery, as well as identification of sectoral expenditure programs for alternative provision by the
private sector.
8.    The total project cost is estimated at US$36.2 million, of which the Bank is financing
US$30.0 million or approximately 83%. Said project costs include technical assistance, equipment,
training, and incremental operating costs incurred during the implementation period. For its part,
the Government will make a US$1.5 million in-kind contribution toward the operating costs of the
Fiscal Monitoring Division of the Ministry of Finance (FMD. The Project is being implemented by
the Foundation for Enterprise Restructuring and Financial Institutions Restructuring (FER), which
is registered with the Ministry of Justice as a non-commercial foundation.
9.    Implementation. The RFTAL officially became effective on August 30, 2000. In the
interim the project has disbursed US$4.3 million, and as of this publication had US$6.3 million in
further financial commitments. A brief outline of the activities financed under the project thus far is
provided below.
10.   To date the project has financed diagnostic reviews of the fiscal health and quality of
regional fiscal management in the project's six participating regions, as well as public expenditure
reviews (PERs) in health, education, housing, transportation, and the social sector. Further PERs in
culture, industry, law enforcement and regional/local governance are planned.
11.  In the area of Strengthening Federal Legislation, a consultant has been contracted to
"Develop Federal and Regional Legislation on Interbudgetary Relations and Sub-Federal
Finances". The work performed under this contract will result in the creation of a more coherent
inter-governmental and intra-governmental fiscal framework, which will create economic
incentives for fiscally responsible behavior of regional and municipal entities. The work will result



70
in a package of model laws on transfers, sub-national borrowing, and a clear division of revenue
and expenditure responsibilities between different levels of government.
12.   Further under this component, the project has contracted a consultant to "Develop Federal
Legislation on Regional Development Fund Formation and Utilization". The work to be conducted
under this contract includes: (a) perform analysis of current federal legislation and evaluate
proposals for updating it; (b) develop and assess relevant draft laws and other widely applicable
regulations; (c) render consultant services to stakeholding ministries and agencies; and (d) carry out
seminars and conferences.
13.   Under the component Strengthening Federal Monitoring Capacity, the loan is presently
contracting a consultant to perform "Extended Monitoring of Regional Finances". The work to be
conducted under this contract will lay the groundwork for the creation of an MOF-administered
system of fiscal monitoring at the regional and municipal level. The consultant will assist the MOF
in developing a methodology for evaluating the financial performance of regional and local
authorities, and evaluating the regional reform programs submitted for assessment to the Regional
Reform Fund. In addition, the consultant will be responsible for training and disseminating best
financial practices in managing regional finances throughout the Russian Federation.
14.  In sum, the RFTAL is broadly on track with its development objectives and disbursement
goals. As a result, the project consistently has been given a "Satisfactory" implementation progress
rating.



71
ANNEX 8
THE REGIONAL FISCAL REFORM FUND (RFRF)
1.   In general, fiscal reforms at the regional level have made far less progress than those at the
Federal level. There is significant room for improvement in fiscal and budget management
practices, and with increasing centralization of revenue under the Government reforms, it will be
even more important for regions to effectively manage their expenditures. Regional level
governments continue to rely on a host of on- and off-budget accounts, tax offsets (including
targeted cash offsets which are gradually crowding out non-cash offsets), mutual settlements and
the like. This makes it difficult, if not impossible, to determine with any clarity the overall fiscal
situation of the region. Budget processes themselves lack transparency. The unfunded mandates of
the center lead to the accumulation of arrears in wage and benefit payments and contribute to a
reliance on the central government for bailouts. Expenditure plans and programs need significant
strengthening as do the methods for allocating revenues to local governments. Typically there is no
systemic formula for ensuring equalization within a region, and both current and capital transfers
from the regional to local governments are based on negotiation. In addition, there is little
monitoring of or capacity to manage subnational debt. In effect, the problems that plagued central
government fiscal management pertain to the regional levels, and the regional level has limited
tools and/or capacity for addressing these issues.
2.    In the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance Loan, the Bank has worked specifically with
six regions (Belgorod Oblast, Chelyabinsk Oblast, Chuvashia Republic, Khabarovski Krai, Samara
Oblast, and Vologda Oblast), in order to diagnose key fiscal and budget management problems, and
assist them in developing reform programs for addressing these issues. As part of the overall
reforms to improve the incentives for regions to reform their fiscal management practices, the
Government has created a line item in the budget for an incentive-based transfer mechanism. This
transfer is referred to as the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund. The notion of the Government is a grant
mechanism that will assist regional governments in meeting the costs of budget reform. Agreement
on the operational modalities of this grant mechanism and their subsequent implementation are one
of the conditionalities for this loan. The mechanism proposed by the Government is described
below.
3.    Mechanics of the RFRF. Disbursements from RFRF are to be made to selected regions:
winners of a competition on a grant basis in two installments, conditional upon their success in
implementation of two-phase reforms of regional public finance (subject to Bank's clearance).
Disbursements are made according to quotas of each region-winner (calculated by MOF and
subject to Bank's clearance). Quotas are calculated according to the following principles: 30
percent in equal proportion between regions-winners, 30 percent according to region's population
weight in total population of regions-winners, 40 percent in proportion to their scores assigned to
the regions-winners in the process of their selection. Winners of the competition that receive
grants from RFRF are not eligible for participation in further contests.
4.    MOF declares the competition among regions of the Russian Federation for participation in
the RFRF by sending a special letter with sample application forms (satisfactory to the Bank) to be
filled in by the regions. Regions of the Russian Federation that are willing to participate in the



72
competition send application forms, diagnostics of their financial health, and draft public finance
reform programs to MOF. Pre-qualification and final selection of the regions-winners is made by
MOF (subject to clearance by the Bank) according to a methodology (satisfactory to the Bank),
which includes specific disqualification criteria. The list of regions includes seven regions in which
up to 5 are expected to receive awards. Disbursement of grants to particular regions is made in two
installments upon completion of each of the two phases of its fiscal reform program. It is
anticipated that there will be three "cohorts" of regions (of up to 10 regions).
5.    Disbursement of the first installment is conditional upon:
* Implementation of at least 80 percent of the first phase of the public finance reform
program.
* Disqualification criteria are not violated during first phase of reforms.
* Inclusion of federal grants in regional annual budgets (in expenditure appropriations)
* Introduction of medium-term (3 year) budget framework and forecasting of macro variables
* Overdue wage arrears of the regional consolidated budget are less than the average monthly
payroll (based on data for current reporting year).
. Regional consolidated budget has no overdue unsettled arrears to the Federal Budget
(budget loans, guarantees/warranties under centralized credits) in excess of the mean
monthly tax and non-tax receipts (based on current reporting year.)
* Share of non-monetary receipts of the region's tax receipts is less than 30 percent.
* Creation of Debt Registry and accounting for all debt liabilities (securities including
agrobonds, bank loans and outstanding obligations under guarantees).
* Regional government has no overdue (unsettled) debt obligations to commercial creditors
(securities  including  agrobonds,  bank  loans,  outstanding   obligations  under
guarantees/warranties).
* Debt size and debt service are consistent with the limits set forth in the Budget Code.
* Publication in regional mass media of information on budget, debt and public procurement.
* No restrictions on the flow of goods, labor or capital between regions and/or between
municipalities within a region.
6.    Disbursement of the second installment is conditional upon:
* Full implementation of the regional fiscal reform program.
* Disqualification criteria are not violated during second phase of reforms.
* Compliance with the minimum standards of quality of budget management.
* Inclusion of federal grants in regional annual budgets
* Establishing the basis of treasury system (single budget account from which payments are
made directly to suppliers of goods and services and procured by the budget) as measured
by Treasury Concept and step-by-step implementation plan.
* Off budget resources and extra-budgetary funds are less than 10 percent of total budget
revenues.



73
*  The share of non-monetary receipts of the region's tax receipts is less than 5 percent.
*  Establishing basis for system  of registration of property rights (as foundation for
development of property tax) by regional government approval of regulation on registration
of property rights.
*  Establishing a system for evaluating the efficiency of budget expenditures and whether
expenditures are used for intended purpose and cost effective.
*  Introduction of a formula-based system for the allocation of equalization transfers from the
region to local governments.
*  Procedure for regional public procurement through tenders is approved and being
implemented.
7.    Program implementation and supervision. The Fiscal Monitoring Division at the
Ministry of Finance has been working with regions under the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance
Project and will be responsible for implementation of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund. Through
the technical assistance, the Fiscal Monitoring Division has already built up significant capacity.
The unit will be responsible for:
-  setting regional fiscal and budgetary performance targets;
o  monitoring and rating the progress of regions participating in the program;
*  verifying the validity of fiscal and financial data reported by the regions under the program;
*  based on the evaluation of regional performance, recommend to the Intergovernmental
Finance Working Group and the Bank the regions to be awarded transfers from the RFRF;
*  enrolling new regions into the program; and
*  disseminating best regional fiscal practices through the web, publications and conferences.
8.    Bank supervision of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund will consist of monitoring progress
in the evaluation of applications and implementation of the regional reform program objectives.
Three Bank supervision missions per year for three years are envisaged, with a final supervision
mission in the fourth year. To permit such supervision, the MOF will provide the Bank with the
required information concerning regional performance under the program and federal transfers to
the regions.
9.    Criteria for the Regions. The Govermnent intends to use the RFRF as a tool to support
those regions that are reform minded, and are willing to move forward on improving their fiscal
and budgetary management practices. In order to select the regions, the Government has set out
five broad criteria (with weights in parenthesis): fiscal performance 15%, quality of management
30%, phase one of the reform program 25%; phase two of the reform program 20% and plan for
use of funds 10%. The Government has placed great importance on making the methodology for
selection objective and based on clearly observable variables. It is anticipated that based on the
experience of the first cohort the criteria will be further refined in subsequent years.



74
10.   Regional fiscal management will be measured for the RFRF according to three broad
groups of indicators: (1) disqualifying criteria/minimum standards, (2) fiscal performance and (3)
quality of fiscal management. The disqualification/minimum standards criteria are binary in nature
(you meet them or you don't), are checked at the application stage and monitored throughout the
implementation of the region's reform program. Group (2) will be evaluated on the basis of ratios
and scores aggregated to measure fiscal performance while group (3) relies more on an evaluatior
of procedures, systems and methodologies. Continuous compliance with group (1) and a program
and perforrnance which covers the issues under groups (2) and (3) determines regional selection
and the decision to make a transfer from the RFRF.
11.   Fiscal performnance (group 2) sets basic numerical targets for adequacy of cash revenues
against expenditure responsibilities with emphasis on effectiveness of tax collection and absence of
over-reliance on transfers or extra budgetary revenues. Prudent debt management is also measured
as opposed to the delinquency classification used in the disqualification criteria.
12.   The quality of fiscal management (group 3) covers the items set out in Table 1 and Annex
6b: budget process, tax policy, expenditure management, intergovernmental system within the
region, debt management, and information and audit.
13.   One key issue for the RFRF will be the extent to which it supports regions other than those
that are well off. The first cohort of regions presents a good range of regions, as measured by GR1'
per capita: four regions have an above average GRP per capita, whereas three are below. Over timrre
it is expected that the better off regions will have undertaken fiscal reforms and that the RRF will
move even more towards the assistance of those that are not wealthy.
Subject of the        Population         Gross Regional      GRP per capita in
Federation        thousand people,     Product in 1998,    1998, thousand rubles
01.01.99       (without agriculture)
mln. rubles
Vologda oblast              1,328.10             22,277.65                  16774
St Petersburg               4,695.40             83,863.85                  17861
Republic of                 1,361.80              9,648.31                   7085
Chuvashia
Belgorod oblast             1,489.50             16,881.39                  11334
Samara oblast               3,305.30             62,594.78                  18938
Chelyabinsk oblast          3,498.90             43,714.55                  12494
Khabarovski kray            1,523.30             27,881.80                   18304
Russian Federation        143,826.70          2,096,039.50                  14573



75 IcANNEX 9
Russian Federation at a glance                                                                 07/25101
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                Russian    Central   middle-
Federation      Asia  Income       Development diamond
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                      145.5       475     2,046                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,660     2,010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     241.6       956     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population (%)                                         -0.3       0.1       1.0   i
Labor force (%)                                        0.0        0.6       1.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994.00)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poventy line)   30
Urban population (% of tot 81population)                73        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        66        69        69
Infant mortality (per ,/000 live births)                15        21        32
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)                3         ..       11                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)       ..        90        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     1         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   109       100       114              RussianFederation
Male                                                 109       101       116       1        Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               108        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000   j
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..  1,100.1      193.2    251.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..    30.1       14.8      17.2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..    18.2      43.9      45.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..    30.3       31.2      38.2
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..      ..      25.3      33.8
Current account balance/GDP                              ..      10.6      16.7      .mt
Interest payments/GDP                                   ..       1.1        1.1     Somestc                     Investment
Total debtlGDP                                                   90.6      64.2     S                           I
Total debt service/exports                               .       11.5       7.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                .      67.7
Present value of debt/exports                                  153.5
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990.00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ..    -4.8       5.4        8.3      4.3         -Russian Federation
GDP per capita                        ..    -4.6       5.8        8.9      4.7           - - Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..    -0.9       -1.8       4.3       2.0   :
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1930     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP(%
(% of GDP)                                                                                 95   96 97   98   99   I0
Agriculture                                    ..    16 6        7.4       7.1      20
Industry                                       ..    48.4       35.5      38.7
Manufacturing                                                                      c 0 
Services                                        .     35 0      57.1      54.2     -20
Private consumption                            ..    48.9       52.1      47.9    -o -
General government consumption                        20.8       16.7     13.8                    G0t    - GDP
Imports of goods and services                   .     17.9      27.4      24.8
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Acriculture                                           -6.0       10.7       5.0    30-
Industry                                              -7.6       9 8      11.8       -
Manufactur.ng                                 .         .                  ..     O      ._          _     .      _
Services                                       ..    -3.3        2.2       2.9   -20       S    99   97          9      r
Private consumption                            .       2 0       -1 .6     8.2   -30
General government consumption                 ,.      0.3       3.0      12.9   .40
Gross domestic investment                      .    -18.4        5.7      17.3               ExDots   -i        corts
Irncorts of goods and services                        -7.4     -28.4      17.5
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the dianmond V;:
be incornplete.



76
Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestc prices                                  1980    1990       1999       2000      Inrlation (%)
(% change)                                                                             400 -
Consumer prices                                   ..      5.6       85.7      20.8     300
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..    15.9        64.7      37.1     200 +
Governmentfinance                                                                      lOt 
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      0           ---
Current revenue                                   ..       ..       33.5      37.1              95    96    97    98    99    00
Current budget balance                            .,       ..        1.3       7.8                  GDP deflator  - -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                             -3.6       2.9                                --------- -
TRADE
m n980   1990       1999      2000    ! Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)I
Total exports (fob)                               ,,        ,    75,666   105,566       120,000
Crude oil                                       ..        ..    14,101    25,319      100000.1
Natural gas                                      .        ..    11,352    16,644       80.000
Manufactures                                                     8.500    10.000
Total imports (cif)                               ,.       ..   41,757    47,192        80,0-0
Food                                             ..       ..     8,100     7.400 D
Fuel and energy                                                    419       1         20OM
Capital goods                                    .        ..    10,500    10,600          0
94  s5  9E  97  98  99  00
Export pice index (1995=100)                      ..       ..         82       112   I
Import prce index (1995=100)                      ..       ..         85        82                sExvorts       o moorts
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                          ..       ..         96       136
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millons)                                 g1980     1990       1999       2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                     ..       ..    84,738   115,200       18 
Imports of goods and services                      ,        ,    52,970    62,290       18
Resource balance                                  ,.       .,    31,768    52,910       14 1
12,
Net income                                        ..       ..  -11,900   -11,154        10' +                                i.,
Net current transfers                             ..       ..        542        90                                     ,.e+.
Current account balance                           ..       ..   20,410    41,846        4
Financing items (net)                             ..       ..  -16,583   -23,432
Changes in net reserves                           ..       ..    -3,827   -18,415    |       4   95   9    97   98   99   00
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)            ..       ..    12,456    27,972
Conversion rate (locaU/US$)                        .        ..      24 6      28 1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                          Composition of 20eo debt (US' mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..       ..  175,103   161,093
IBRD                                            ..       ..     6,809      7,067    |                     A
IDA                                             ..       ..         0          0              G 13 8                  '
Total debt service paid                           ..       ..      9,761     8,837   [                                  196
IBRO                                            .         ..      520       679/
IDA                                                                 0          0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..        ..
Official creditors                                                577       -688    |      ,44900 1
Private creditors                                                -176       -330
Foreign direct investment                       ..       ..      1,348      -347
Portfolio equity                                                 -200       -100
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..       ..       430         30      A - IBRC. E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..        ..       538        540    | B IDA    D - othr mu tIrer0   F Private
Pnncipal repayments                                               150        267      C- IMF                       GShor7-terr
Net flows                                       ..       ..       388       274
interest payments                              ..        ..       370        412
Net transfers                                  ..        ..         18      -139
Develorpment Economics and Country Team.                      c:\LDBkRusnreports\RuscAAGk.xis                             12/28/01



MAP SECTION






IBRD 271 88R
.F   . $Jo+r cocylo...............                                                                                                ;r!   .s deo'o  '...........Ioq..........a.......                                                  -            .               . I .;6O0S.Ass+;g4wPEE LC6w4r1>F-
4f,r.p '-ap 'o'. n,tyoo'.'Lo                                           S                                                     RUSSIAN, FEDERATION
Elsa Wont Rank  coo~~~~~~~~~~~~,, osrsato~~~~~~fl                                     R~~EPUBLICS, KRAIS, OBLASTS,' OK                                 UG       
*  NATIONAL CPII                                                                                                                              ain>
naA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EICONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
UNITED  'to o__ Cl-AST, ERA> OR ReEVsuC  ONDRE                                                                                                                                                                                                      86
I O          h-br         ;         h        :        ' '                                                                                    < . *   '   ' -  i  soon  AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, ''"RPG,OU ARIE
B!,,., . . .                                          a.
3 ~  ~     ~      Koei   9 L nnro         4   ol 9       4.Yrsova6turk3. oncKhl gT ngh                                                                            5.Moiol                      S   ugo                 3   em rv                     7.A i    B ro    82.K ra
POA D   (''THUANIA)       8
6  J  Vol gd                                   17.    Mo w  Ciy2.                       Vo o e h3                    . A y  e a4                 . S r t v5                                              . K  m   e m o     6   o  s                    5    r s   o  sk            5    o  o o
89~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~2 4Ti                                        n                     0 55    0    0    0  IE
YRIMAN A)           ~           ~          ; <0                                                 5       S      0     800 KILOETER
1 Arhaogl  7Noognod12. Bryas                       2.Tl                     HENZO                  30. ChechOseti                  45. TAtorakan            4   Covn                    53. Bashkrtana         61. Aymen                   70. Bu veat                 80    . A   kor
3. Nonno  8  sIcas13. loanovo2n                       ldmr            2.Rloo                     31. Roghstav                    41. Kalnyia              49  Kna                     54. Shnlyainnsk            62. Karnty-Aotai          71  . hila                81. Priorncati
6 Volagclo                          170. SMoleso   iy2.Vrna                                          35. Stadyoeyl                 647. SarananovskoniPm                                                          66. Tom ol-knt            75 8 KrToimir              85. Magadon
11. Kaliningrad            31. Tver                                                            39. Karachaevo-Cherkess                                                                                                             7.Tv                         9   oh   Ykt
DECEMU8R 1995



