                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34693

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-46470 TF-51789)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                                 FOR A

                 FISCAL FEDERALISM & REGIONAL FISCAL REFORM PROJECT




                                             January 4, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective January 4, 2006)

                  Currency Unit = Convertible Ruble (RUB)
                         1 RUB = US$ 0.0347
                         US$ 1 = 28.74 RUB

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director      Kristalina Georgieva
               Sector Manager       Deborah Wetzel
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Lawrence M. Hannah

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                     Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P050489                                                  Project Name: Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal
                                                                     Reform Project
Team Leader: Lawrence M. Hannah                                      TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 4, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Fiscal Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform               L/C/TF Number: SCL-46470; TF-51789
                            Project
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (80%); Central government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Other economic management (P); Public expenditure, financial management and procurement
                            (P); Tax policy and administration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/10/2001                                     Effective: 06/05/2002                06/05/2002
     Appraisal: 10/02/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 01/29/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF RUSSIAN FEDERATION/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Kristalina I. Georgieva                        Julian Schweitzer
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             Lawrence M. Hannah                             Lawrence M. Hannah
ICR Primary Author:             Lawrence M. Hannah; Stepan
                                Anatolievich Titov; Anita Correa


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Project was (a) to strengthen
the system of fiscal federalism and (b) to support the regions of the Russian Federation (RF) in the
development and implementation of fiscal reform programs that would promote financial
transparency, budgetary accountability, and strengthen fiscal management policies and practices at
the regional level. This objective reflected the Bank's decision to support an explicit strategy of
the Government to tackle reform of the intergovernmental fiscal system and to provide an
incentive for regions to design and implement fiscal reform programs. The latter was anticipated
in a previous loan to the Russian Federation for a Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance (RFTA)
that provided funding both for the federal government to prepare reforms to the overall
intergovernmental framework and for the regions to prepare and implement reforms to their
budget systems.

The government's program, known as Intergovernmental Fiscal Reform Concept, approved by
the RF government in July 1998, and the Russian Fiscal Federalism Development Program for
2002-2005, approved by the RF government in August 2001, established a vision for fiscal
federalism and regional fiscal reform along with specific objectives. The vision built upon the
unfinished agenda of normalizing and stabilizing the fiscal framework for the approximately half of
public spending that occurred at the subnational level. This operation was fully supported by the
CAS and built upon a history of Bank diagnostic and financial support for reforming fiscal
federalism in Russia (see pages 10 and 11 in the President's Report for a more complete history of
this work).

For the Bank, the goals of the government's program seemed appropriate in two ways. First, they
were comprehensive in that they addressed (1) the "top-down" framework issues that create the
necessary conditions for efficient and effective government in a multi-tiered structure and (2) the
"bottom-up" budget management that lower levels of government needed to adopt to successfully
carry out their obligations. Second, the goals were consistent with the findings of both the Bank's
own considerable legacy of analytical work on fiscal federalism and the prevailing views at the
time of what was needed to be done. The Bank supported the government's program goals
because it shared them for the reasons outlined above and because of the promising innovative
competitive design of the project itself which is discussed below in the components section.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Since the project had a two-part objective (or really two objectives), not surprisingly, it had two
components. The first addressed the reform of the system of fiscal federalism and the second
component supported the establishment of the incentive mechanism that rewarded successful
regional reformers. As under any adjustment operation, the components were reflected in the
conditionality for the release of the proceeds of the loan. This project was designed with three
tranches. The first tranche included all conditions associated with the first component, the reform
of the intergovernmental system such as reduction of unfunded federal mandates, enhancement of
revenue raising capacity of regional governments, improvement in the stability and transparency


                                                 - 2 -

of transfers to the regions and creation of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF). It also
required the Ministry of Finance to complete the first round selection of regions to receive grants
from the RFRF, according to agreed criteria. Tranches 2 and 3 simply required the federal
government to maintain and fund the RFRF while the competition among regions for access to
RFRF funding (objective 2) was repeated for two additional groups of regions (known as cohorts
under this project).

The first component, to strengthen the system of fiscal federalism, was front-loaded in the
conditionality because those actions logically preceded, or created the conditions for, the reforms
at the regional level. Specifically, accomplishment of the first component was translated into
disbursement conditions for the first tranche, namely: (1) the elimination of five unfunded federal
mandates, (2) assignment of 100% of PIT and the sales tax to regions, and (3) the adoption of a
formula for the two main transfers to the regions. The second, or regional reform, component was
also translated into tranche release conditions that covered (1) budget process, (2) tax policy, (3)
expenditure management, (4) the intergovernmental system within a region, (5) debt management
and (6) dissemination of budget information and audit. As mentioned above, the second
component conditionality was the same in all three tranches except that it applied to different
cohorts of regions applying to the RFRF.

Perhaps the most innovative aspect of the project was the competitive grant mechanism that was
developed for the project in order to create an incentive for reform among the regions. As part of
the three "contests" for regional access to RFRF funds, applicants were judged on the basis of
how well they prepared and implemented regional fiscal reform programs. The scoring system
was extensive and quantitative but allowed for variation in focus among regions and scored
implementation on a relative basis to motivate regions with significantly different starting
positions. To make sure that the reforms were significant, the Bank also suggested, and the
Government accepted, a set of minimum standards for regional reform programs in order to
guarantee real progress by the successful contestants. The winners were given budgetary transfers
from the newly established RFRF (transfer window within the federal budget) of approximately
USD 8 million each although two regions got only half that amount because they failed to
complete one of the phases of their reforms by the cutoff date.

Given the objectives, and their appropriateness as argued in the previous section, the components
were aligned quite precisely with them. In addition, the components were translated into a limited
number of measurable conditions that were used to trigger disbursement of the loan. The design
of the project also took full advantage of the preceding RFTA, as mentioned.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is assessed as satisfactory. Although QAG did not conduct an assessment of
the quality at entry for this operation, a Quality Enhancement Review was organized by the region
on May 23, 2001. The panel was chaired by an experienced expert in fiscal federalism and
included two senior Bank fiscal economists from outside the region. They were provided a brief
history of intergovernmental fiscal relations in Russia including how the events of 1998 had



                                                  - 3 -

affected the incentives to pursue subnational fiscal reform. Specifically, the team sought guidance
on the instrument design, how to mesh Bank conditionality with the government's program and
whether the competition-based model for regions was appropriate. The major risks facing the
program were also carefully enumerated to get the panel's reaction.

The panel conducted a full day of interviews after reviewing the documentation and came to the
following conclusions. Overall, the panel noted the evidence of strong ownership by the Ministry
of Finance strongly supported also at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister. As for specific
recommendations the panel, first recommended a reduction in the scope of conditionality with
special attention to recognize that reforms could be different among regions and might not always
follow the same sequence. Second, the panel went further suggesting that the substantive focus on
"areas which are most closely linked to the immediate policy framework affecting regional fiscal
policies" be given priority. The panel also suggested how the objectives could be tightened and
recommended a stronger linkage to the already approved RFTA project. They also had some
suggestions on how sustainability of the program might be discussed in the reports. The panel's
recommendations were largely incorporated into the project concept and documentation and can
be read in their entirety in Annex 7.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project, in terms of the achievement of its objectives, is assessed as
satisfactory. In respect to the first objective, the government implemented all of the reform
measures and the program of fiscal federalism that were supported by the Bank project. They also
completed all key activities envisaged under their reform program. Although the size of the loan
was not large in comparison to the federal budget, the Bank's support for their program required
a dialogue with high level officials on the reforms and the agreed timetable, making it easier to
maintain implementation momentum. The commitment by the Bank, to specific reforms, may also
have helped the government take major steps toward better fiscal federalism arrangements. In
particular, the project supported elimination of several key federally unfunded mandates, first
steps towards creation of clear revenue assignments between federal and subnational levels of
government, and development of more transparent federal transfer mechanisms (the most
important of which is equalization transfer formulae). Moreover, the government has continued
the reform process of fiscal relations beyond specific project agreements by approving and
gradually implementing very ambitious municipal reforms, making more clear the assignment of
expenditure responsibilities, further reducing unfunded mandates and monetizing previously
in-kind benefits.

The second objective of supporting the regions of the RF to develop and implement programs of
fiscal reform was also achieved satisfactorily. The 15 regions who received grants from the
Regional Fiscal Reform Fund did improve their fiscal management practices through
implementation of the two-stage programs of budget reform. There were also clear spill-over
effects, as many improvements were made by regions, which did not receive grants (they may
have implemented only parts of their budget reform programs or have simply participated in
workshops under the RFTA project). In addition, the companion RFTA project contributed to
improved fiscal management at the subnational level by assisting government in strengthening



                                                   - 4 -

federal and regional legislation on intergovernmental fiscal relations and fiscal management.
Comparative analysis of regional performance conducted by the Bank in 2003 suggested that, by
the end of the initial period of the program implementation, the regions participating in the Fiscal
Federalism & Regional Fiscal Reform Project indeed out-performed their peers in a number of
important areas, especially with respect to the speed of their fiscal adjustment and expenditure
restructuring. These findings indicate that the project had a positive impact on fiscal performance
of participating regions as well as the implantation of modern systems and the adoption of new
policies and regulations. A summary of those findings is in the following table.

Analysis of Statistical Significance of Differences between Participant and Similar
Groups of Regions.
                                    Participants   Nonparticipants    Better Performance
Deficit, as % of Total Budget           1.75             3.69        Participants**
Expenditures, 2002
Debt/GRP ratio, 2001                     4.0             4.7         Participants
Total Budget Arrears, as % of Total     14.7             29.5        Participants**
Budget Expenditures, 1999-2001
average
Wage Arrears, as % of Total Budget       0.5             0.5         Identical
Expenditures, 2001
Average Number of Amendments to           4               6          Participants
Regional Budget Law, 2001
Index of Budget Equalization, 2001      5.28             2.48        Nonparticipants**
Ratio of Current to Capital Budget       7.5             9.1         Participants
Expenditures, 2002
Production by Small Enterprises in       14              11          Participants**
Total Production, %, 2001
Share of Labor Employed in SMEs         153              109         Participants*
per 1000, 2002
Share of Budget Subsidies to            15.5             16.7        Participants**
Enterprises, as % of Total Budget
Expenditures, 2002
Regional Expenditures on Public          6.3             6.4         Participants
Administration, % of Budget
Expenditures, 2002
Growth Rate in Tax Collection,          22%              22%         Identical**
1997-2001
Share of Loss-Making Enterprises,        34              39          Participants**
%, 2001
Unemployment, %, 2001                    8.8             9.2         Participants
Accumulated GRP growth, %,               7.4             7.0         Participants
1998-2000
Real Average Household Income per       1174             984         Participants*
capita, in 1998 rubles, 2001
Number of Teachers per 1000, 2001       112              122         Nonparticipants
Number of Civil Servants per 1000,       4.2             4.2         Identical
2001
Number of Doctors per 1000, 2001         49              44          Nonparticipants
Gini Index, 2001                         33              34          Participants**



                                                 - 5 -

** Denotes statistical significance at 5 percent level.
* Denotes statistical significance at 10 percent level.
Source: Russia Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan: Impact on Regional
Performance - Early Assessment, Lev Freinkman and Mikhail Pryadilnikov, The World Bank,
November, 2004

4.2 Outputs by components:
Satisfactory. Since the components are precisely matched to the objectives this section mentions,
in more detail, the achievements under each heading. In respect to Component One, the fiscal
federalism system in Russia has been strengthened, to date, through the following actions taken in
conjunction with the support provided by this loan:
-       reduction of unfunded mandates (child allowances, law on invalids, Chernobyl victims,
Heroes of RF and victims of political repression financed through federal grants);
-       assignment of 100% of personal income tax to regions and regions provided with one
significant tax for which they can set the rate;
-       continued application of improved methodology for allocation of the Fund for Financial
Support to the regions;
-       creation of a clear and transparent mechanism for allocation of Compensation Fund
resources;
-       agreement on the operational principles of the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund satisfactory to
the Bank;
-       creation and funding of a line item in the Federal Budget for the Regional Fiscal Reform
Fund.

Under Component Two, a total of 24 regions presented applications and reform programs and 19
regions took part in an actual competition for the RFRF grants under the FF&RFRP. Grants from
RFRF were provided to five regions from the first cohort (Samarskaya oblast, Vologdskaya
oblast, Chelyabinskaya oblast, Republic of Chuvashia., and St. Petersburg), five regions from the
second cohort (Astrakhanskaya oblast, Saratovskaya oblast (only one installment), Krasnodarskiy
kray, Khabarovskiy kray, Republic of Karelia), and five regions from the third cohort (Permskaya
oblast, Kaluzhskaya oblast, Stavropolskiy kray, Tverskaya oblast (only one installment), and
Taymirskiy Autonomous Okrug (only one installment)).

In the process of competition for RFRF grants, participating regions implemented broad ranging
reforms of their fiscal management systems. The important institutional reforms undertaken by
participating regions include:
-       gradual transition toward treasury principles of budget execution;
-       adoption of the new, more transparent regulations for both transfer equalization and tax
sharing;
-       introduction of new procedures to control budget commitments/liabilities;
-       reduction in the number of off-budget accounts and gradual transferring of those that
remain to local treasuries;
-       monitoring and capping tax exemptions;
-       improvement of the information base and management of debt and monitoring of the
consolidated debt of the public sector;



                                                        - 6 -

-       improvement of asset management techniques; and
-       strengthening internal audit of the use of budgetary funds.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial impact on the federal Ministry of Finance in respect to how it deals
with the regions on fiscal affairs. Specifically the loan facilitated creation of a functioning federal
transfer window with conditional grants-rewards for the regions. That window, the RFRF,
promotes budget reforms at subnational level and which is administered by the Ministry of
Finance. The unit that administers RFRF was strengthened as part of the project and remains
active on this issue. In addition, some other Russian ministries and agencies expressed willingness
to apply the project's competitive selection scheme for Russian regions with federal
grants-rewards to housing and communal services reform (Federal Agency for Construction and
HCS) and to operations of the Regional Development Fund (administered by the Ministry of
Economic Development and Trade). Competitive selection mechanism was also applied by the
Ministry of Finance to conduct experimental competition between Russian ministries, agencies,
and services in the context of gradual transformation towards performance based budgeting
principles. In terms of actual administration of federal-regional fiscal relations and adoption of the
project's model of promoting reform the institutional impact within the federal government is
significant.

At the subnational level, institutional development impact is evident in the stronger finance
departments in the participating regions and in the much more central role that they play in
regional affairs. Specifically there has been adoption of treasury principles of budget execution in
at least 15 Russian regions, development of debt management systems in 15 regions, creation of
municipal fiscal reform fund transfer windows within several regional budgets; increased
transparency and accountability of at least 15 regional budgets. Public procurement has also been
significantly strengthened as a result of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project took place during a period when many external events and factors supported
successful implementation of the reforms. Coming out of a chaotic decade, following the initial
transition from the old system, there was a positive attitude toward budget reform. The crisis of
1997/8 only reinforced the broad commitment at the central level to introduce more order, and
perhaps symmetry, into the system of fiscal federalism in Russia. The financial fallout of the
1997/8 events also motivated regions to start fixing their public finances. However, shortly after,
the economy started to grow as did public revenues and there was a period increasing political
stability. In addition, extremely favorable external conditions for the Russian economy- very high
oil and gas prices, significantly contributed to growth and thus improved fiscal performance at the
subnational level. All of these fortuitous events helped this project.



                                                     - 7 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
From the very outset the government laid down an strong and clear message of its goals in this
arena. This message was regularly repeated in events where the federal officials met with regional
leaders. The government's own program documents too served to provide a detailed and readily
available reference. However, it was probably the transparency with which the competition for
recognition of regional reform was run that was the most important government controlled factor
supporting successful implementation of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Finance managed to assemble a very efficient team of its staff members (within
the Department of Inter-budgetary Relations and Fiscal Monitoring Division) and consultants to
administer the project. There was very good coordination between different key ministries and the
government apparatus under the umbrella of the Inter-ministerial Working Group. Thus there
were no delays in assessment of regional applications and of issuing the contest results. In
addition, there were no problems with actual disbursements and timeliness of such disbursements
to region-winners of grants.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is assessed as likely. This loan supported the very first and probably the easiest part
of fiscal federalism and public sector management reforms. This was partly true because of the
very technical nature of the reforms at the subnational level. For the same reason, the reforms are
probably irreversible as all the measures supported would be important elements no matter what
the character of intergovernmental fiscal relations. The appropriate degree of
centralization/decentralization for Russia, as in other countries, is something that is under constant
evaluation and consideration within the country. This program, combined with the RFTA, has
made a significant contribution to the development of the principles, the legal framework and to
the implementation of key fiscal reforms at the regional level that will be critical whatever the
ultimate choices made on the appropriate degree of decentralization.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The reforms outlined achieved under the project are now part of the regular operations of the
federal government and of many subnational governments. Furthermore, the government is
committed to continue public sector reforms both at federal and subnational levels with respect to
adoption of performance-based budgeting principles. Even upon FFRFR completion, the Ministry
of Finance continues to use the RFRF without Bank funding- eight regions were selected for a
competition in 2005 and it is expected that from the year 2006 such a competition would include
large Russian municipalities. In addition, a new Program of Fiscal Federalism Development for
2006-2008 has been drafted by the Borrower.




                                                     - 8 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank played a major and long-term role in the development of this project. Much of the
thinking on fiscal federalism was influenced by the series of Bank analytical reports on the subject
which commenced immediately after the break-up of the Soviet Union. Early on, the need for
extensive technical assistance to accomplish the reforms was recognized but it wasn't until the
1997/8 crisis that the idea of proceeding first with the TA was advanced by the Bank. Another
basic idea initiated by the Bank team was to make this project a pure fiscal operation based on
budget grants not loans. This was eventually accepted by government. However, it was the
willingness to craft a project supporting this innovative model of competitive reform, to suit the
needs of an important client, that was the major Bank contribution. At the time, no Bank loan had
ever supported such an approach.

7.2 Supervision:
Regular supervision missions both from headquarters and the Country Office were held with
respect to the project. In most cases FFRFR and RFTAP missions were combined and several WB
staff worked on both projects simultaneously. All regions participants of the project were visited
and compliance checked, on site, by the country office staff.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Although the government was actively involved in all aspects of the identification and preparation
of this project, it was the strength of the specific counterpart both in terms of his substantive
vision and his ability to get the project through the bureaucracy that made the project a reality.
There was very good cross-ministerial coordination at the federal level through the
Interministerial Working Group and across departments in competing regions (creation of special
divisions within regional MOFs, creation of regional IMWGs).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Ministry of Finance was de facto the implementing agency for the project. A special Fiscal
Monitoring Division was created within the Ministry in order to provide oversight over the
transfer window, RFRF. In addition, a special Interministerial Working Group was created that
was the key decision maker on the project, while MOF was the ideological and administrative
force behind the project. In addition. several individual consultants to MOF, funded under
RFTAP, were used by the Borrower.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
See above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.




                                                   - 9 -

8. Lessons Learned

There are four main lessons from this operation:

1.      The competitive model of promoting reform can be effective. The project's concept of
running a contest for reform with cash prizes was considered risky and novel at the time. The
results not only vindicate the model but also revealed unexpected benefits and specific lessons.
The greatest unanticipated benefit was the effect that the contest had, not only on winners, but
also on losers. Even regions that participated in the earlier large screening activities undertook
serious efforts to prepare reform programs. Those regions that were not selected in cohorts one
and two turned around, redoubled their efforts and were selected in a subsequent cohort. Perhaps
the most important lesson about the competitive model was the critical role of transparency in the
process. Selecting 15 winners from a total population of 89 regions, without protest or complaint,
testifies to the credibility of the process run by the borrower in this respect.

2.      Technical assistance is more effective when it is reinforced by an incentive framework.
Given the type of reforms expected under this project, it is not surprising that TA played a critical
role in helping regions prepare, and even implement fiscal reforms. What was notable though, was
how the demand for TA changed in the face of a real prospect that the region might be chosen for
an award from the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund. To summarize, FFRFR could not have been
successful without support from the RFTA loan and that project would not have been anywhere
as nearly effective had the incentives created by FFRFR not been present.

3.      Ownership matters. We know that client commitment always makes a difference.
However, the extent of the commitment in having the Russian government borrow, first for
RFTA and secondly for FFRFR, at a time when there was widespread opposition within the
government to borrow, and great dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of other projects,
represented real ownership. One, not so small, detail of how this ownership was exercised made a
large difference. From the outset, the Ministry of Finance retained full substantive control of the
project and only contracted some technical tasks to a limited number of consultants funded under
the RFTA project. There was never any possibility of the borrower loosing interest in the project
or contracting out work to external consultants, both recipes for an unsatisfactory outcome.

4.      Subnational fiscal reform can be a legitimate topic for policy lending. Although
subnational or "bottom-up" fiscal reform has often been cast in terms of investments in specific
systems, such as introducing modern accounting, this project goes well beyond that model. In
addition to designing and implementing a wide range of common systems, policy changes and
even outcome targets were demonstrated to be viable objectives for fiscal reform at the
subnational level. Good examples of effective policy adopted by regions in this operation are
those pertaining to debt management, efficient public procurement, reliable treasury execution of
budgets and robust medium term planning. Targets for outcomes were focused on performance of
the treasuries, debt management, public procurement, financial planning systems, the settlement of
arrears as well as structural issues pertaining to the role of the state in the economy. This project
has demonstrated the viability of pursuing subnational fiscal reform as part of a policy agenda.




                                                  - 10 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                       The Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation

Please find attached the Report on implementation of Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal
Reform Loan # 4647 RU provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.

Director of the Department of Budget Policy
Director of the Technical Assistance for Regional Reform Project
A. Lavrov

                Report on Implementation of IBRD Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal
Reform Loan # 4647 RU.

1. Main Results
Establishing and operating the Regional Fiscal Reform Fund (RFRF) was one of the activities in a
large-scale Regional Fiscal Reform Program (RFRP), which has been implemented jointly by the
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation (RF MOF) and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) since 2000.

The RFRF was created on the basis of the IBRD Loan as a part of federal budget. The RFRF was
helpful in implementation of a new approach to quality enhancement in monitoring of public
finances at the subnational level. This approach was suggested by the "Concept Note on Reform
of Inter-budgetary Relations in the Russian Federation for 1999-2001".

During 2002-2004, based on competition, the RFRF had been providing subsidies to the subjects
of the Russian Federation (RF subjects) in those cases where they had successfully fulfilled their
programs of reform of regional finances.

Three different competitions were launched for RF subjects to become eligible for RFRF
subsidies. Based on estimates of the quality of monitoring of regional public finances and on the
quality of programs developed on reform of public finances submitted for each competition, five
RF subjects were selected for awards with a possible further consideration for funds from the
federal budget in those cases were regions were successful in realizing the Reform Programs they
had proposed. If the first five selected RF subjects were not successful in meeting the conditions
set in their reform programs, the subsidies are awarded to the RF subjects who were ranked in the
6th through 10th places.

An application for participation in the first cohort competition was submitted by seven RF
subjects: the Chuvash Republic, Khabarovsy krai, The Belgorod, Vologda, Samara and
Chelyabinsk oblasts, and St. Petersburg. Based on the evaluation results, first five places were
given to the Chuvash Republic, the Vologda, Samara, Chelyabinsk oblasts and St. Petersburg; 6th



                                                - 11 -

and 7th places were given, respectively, to Khabarovsky (krai) region and Belgorod oblast, which
later on declined to participate in the first cohort competition for RFRF subsidies.

For participation in the second cohort competition, eight applications were submitted from the
Buryat Republic, the Republic of Karelia, Krasnodar, Krasnoyarsk and Khabarovk regions (krais),
and Astrakhan, Kaluga and Saratov oblasts.

Based on the evaluations of the applications, first five places were given to the Republic of
Karelia, Krasnodar and Khabarovsk (krais) regions, Astrakhan and Saratov oblasts. Krasnoyarsk
(krai) region and Kaluga oblast took 6th and 7th places, respectively, and withdrew from
participating in the second cohort competition. The Republic of Buratia was disqualified.

For participation in the third cohort competition thirteen applications were submitted from the
Republic of Buryatia, the Republic of Bashkortostan, the Republic of Marii-El, the Republic of
Sakha (Yakutia), Krasnoyarsk and Stavropol (krais) regions, Kaluga, Leningrad, Nizhegorodsk,
Perm, Rostov, Tver oblasts, and Taimyr (Dolgano-Nenetsk) autonomous okrug.

Based on results of the applications' evaluation, first five places were given to Stavropol (krai)
region, Kaluga, Perm, Tver oblasts and Taimyr (Dolgano-Nenetsk) autonomous okrug. The
results of the Reform Program implementation were in full measure submitted by the Republic of
Marii-El, Krasnoyars (krai) region and Leningrad oblast. Other RF subjects were disqualified.

RFRP was targeted at the following:
§       Budget and budgetary process (budget execution by Treasury, extra budgetary funds, etc.)

§       System of inter-budgetary relations (the method of transfers' distribution, distribution of
authority for spending, federal warranties, etc.)
§       Tax policy (decrease in tax arrears, bankruptcy and license procedures)
§       Tariff policy (work of regional administration with natural monopolies, quality of housing
and municipal services)
§       Regional and local debt management (validity of present debt policy, risk management,
regional creditability)
§       Regional and local property management (main priorities in the area of monitoring of
public and municipal property)
§       Setting criteria for budget spending and release of information on regional finance
§       Audit (budgetary accounting and reporting).

Thus, the reform programs covered the main areas of regional finance monitoring. This made it
possible for any participating RF subject to undertake complex improvements in the
administration on its public finance because they could measure and monitor the results.

A list of the key legal acts, that were revised to make them more orderly and were adopted by RF
subjects during implementation of the program of RFRP, is attached to the full version of the
government's submission and is cited in Annex 7.




                                                 - 12 -

The RFRF subsidies were used for partial co-financing (reimbursement) of the budget
spending by RF subjects (as a direct spending or as a subvention to the budgets of
municipal bodies) for the following:

§       Implementation of reform program (70% of total subsidies)
§       Debt servicing (23%)
§       Social infrastructure (5%)
§       Socially important spending (2%)

As a result of the Reform Program implementation the involved regions demonstrated the
following:
§       Noticeable progress in budgeting, in particular, improvement in quality of planning and
more optimal budget execution.
§       Rise in the level of formalized inter-budgetary relations with the local budgets, the
situation is becoming more transparent and stable, inter-budgetary relations are based on the
principle of stimulating municipal authorities to raise more own funds in their territory.
§       More organized relations with tax payers.
§       Quality enhancement in the monitoring of public debt of RF subjects; regional authorities
are better informed about other liabilities (besides public debt), which from legal or political
viewpoint could be executed through regional budget.
§       Systematic approach to RF subject property monitoring; some measures are undertaken
for transfer to a qualitatively new level of property stock-taking (property is considered as a
balance of assets and liabilities of public origin)
§       Wide application of system of public and municipal purchasing and competition
procurement procedures.
§       Better transparency in activity of authorities in financial sector.

The above mentioned positive results in monitoring of public finance at the regional level are
enhanced by the overall positive effect of improvement in the entire system of monitoring of
regional finances:
§       Normalized and legislative basis in the monitoring of public finances of RF subjects is
systematized and improved.
§       As analytical material and practical solution, a regional fiscal reform database is
developed.
§       With assistance of independent experts (consulting firms) public authorities of RF subjects
were provided with an objective estimate of the state of regional finances.
§       In development and implementation of RFRP, professional level of staff in public and
municipal institutions, and in particular, in financial institutions, has been increased drastically.
§       Open access to international experience, as well as to experience of other RF subjects,
became available.
§       Improvement in interrelations between the agencies and RF subject.
§       Originating of more progressive views on further ways of development of public finances.
§       Additional incentives for reforming (competition of participants as well as systematic
control over implementation of the reform program) are created.
§       An opportunity for additional technical and financial support is provided.



                                                  - 13 -

§      Additional incentives for efficient elimination of discrepancies in legislation of RF subject
and the federal legislation and fulfillment of their requirements are developed.




       Table 1. The dynamics of quality in monitoring of regional finances during the Reform
       Program implementation.
                                  Initial  evaluation   of Evaluation based on the Increase in evaluation, in
                                  quality of monitoring (at results of the Reform percent           (increase
                                  application submission Program implementation, value-to-initial
                                  for participation in the in points)              evaluation ratio)
                                  competition)
      Participants of 1st cohort
      competition
      Vologda oblast             42.11                      79.37                  88.48
      Samara oblast              39.86                      74.46                  86.80
      the Republic of Chuvash    52.83                      96.66                  82.96
      The       Republic      of 41.26                      72.97                  76.85
      Chelyabinsk
      St.Petersburg              58.53                      86.98                  48.61
      Average increase for the                                                     76.74
      group
      Participants    of    2nd
      cohort competition
      Saratov oblast             32.78                      54.09                  65.01
      The Republic of Karelia    33.84                      53.84                  59.10
      Khabarovsk krai            35.20                      55.65                  58.10
      Astrakhan oblast           30.00                      44.63                  48.77
      Krasnodar krai             32.00                      45.00                  40.63
      Average increase for the                                                     54.32
      group
      Participants    of    3rd
      cohort competition
      Taimyr AO                  12.40                      53.80                  333.87
      Stavropol krai             33.40                      89.00                  166.47
      Perm oblast                34.00                      85.20                  150.59
      Kaluga oblast              34.20                      76.40                  123.39
      Tver oblast                33.40                      74.00                  121.56
      Leningrad oblast           21.60                      46.20                  113.89
      The Republic of Marii-El   25.00                      52.40                  109.60
      Krasnoyarsk krai           23.20                      48.20                  107.76
      Average increase for the                                                     153.39
      group
      Average increase for all                                                      104.58
      the participants of the
      competition


   A comparative analysis of RF subjects based on a set of indicators characterizing economic
   and financial situation of RF subjects as well as on the quality of the financial monitoring there
   was performed by the experts of the WB in 2004 (Lev Freinkman, Mikhail Pryadilnikov,
   Russia Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan: Impact on Regional Performance.
   Early Assessment/ the World Bank, November, 2004). The analysis demonstrated that the


                                                       - 14 -

participants of the competition for subsidies from RFRF, on the average, achieved the best
results, when compared to the RF subjects not involved into competition, despite the
difference in their economic potential and budget provision.

2. Moreover, the novelty of the approach applied by the project resided in competition as a
selection process for RF subjects for their right for funding from RFRF. The selection process
and subsequent monitoring of the program implementation used unique, transparent and
formalized criteria and indicators which made it possible to evaluate the quality of monitoring
of the regional finances and its enhancement as a result of performed reforms.

The structure of the Reform Program involved major areas of control of regional finances,
what made it feasible to perform complex evaluation of the quality of work of the
administration in the area of monitoring of public finances of RF subject. Besides a set of
standards and straight forward requirements for the project participants, the latter had a
chance to manifest definite freedom in their actions for implementation of steps and measures
of the RFRP program.

A characteristic feature of this project, which at the same time differentiates it from other
IBRD projects with participation of RF subjects, is the mechanism of financing: the funds
were provided based on: (i) grant not affecting increase in debt burden for the budgets of RF
subjects, (ii) conditions of co-financing that stimulated interest in financing for the measures
planned by the reform program.

Successful implementation of the program resulted mostly from applying the principles of
project monitoring. The scheme of monitoring differed substantially from widely used practice
of IBRD project management in Russia. For the program monitoring and implementation of
results a special subdivision has been established in RF MOF. This subdivision actually
performed functions of the program monitoring what involved the Ministries into the project
monitoring and stimulated their responsibility for practical use of its results. The similar
scheme was applied in RF subjects participating in the competition.

3. Impact of the IBRD. The assistance of the IBRD experts was used at all stages of the
project preparation, RFRF generation and its functioning: in preliminary calculations during
the project preparation, in the development of each item of RFRP model, in independent
evaluations, control over stable and unchangeable rules and requirements for selection process
and monitoring of the Reform Program implementation; in sharing international experience for
monitoring of public finances, technologies and specific solutions developed in this area; in
providing consultations for RF MOF staff and authorities of RF subjects in the wide range of
issues related to the reform implementation.

4. Interaction with the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance (RFTA)              project at the
regional level.

From initial stage the RFRF has been provided with a constant consultative and technical
support by the RFTA project.



                                            - 15 -

Within the framework of RFTA, methodologies were developed for the selection of RF
subjects for further RFRF subsidies as well for the evaluation of the reform program
implemented by the RF subjects. The experts of the RFTA project provided consultations for
the section responsible for the monitoring of regional finances in the Department of
Inter-budgetary Relations of RF MOF, which carried out major functions in monitoring of
RFRF fund (including receiving RFRF funds by RF subjects, preparation of the projects of
methodical materials for the issues related to RFRF functioning, technical assistance in
evaluation of applications from RF subjects, etc.).

The procedure of development and adoption of the Regional Fiscal Reform Program by RF
subjects, implementation of which provided a right for RFRF funds, was based on typical
program of regional fiscal reform developed within RFTA. Based on typical (or basic) model,
any RF subject could develop its own program adapted to its regional problems.

The effectiveness of close relationship between two projects, as well as the effectiveness of
the measures applied in the course of the RFTA was confirmed as a result of audits performed
by the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation.

5. The results of audits performed by the Accounts of Chamber of the Russian Federation.

In September-December 2002, the Accounts of Chamber of the Russian Federation performed
an audit for eligibility of usage, effectiveness and application of international borrowings, that
required guarantees by the Government of the Russian Federation including IBRD Loan #
4528-RU for financing of the Regional Fiscal Technical Assistance in the Republic of
Chuvashia. The audit revealed that during participation of the Republic of Chuvashia in the
project implementation the RFR program was adopted by the Act of the Cabinet of Ministers
of the Republic of Chuvashia of December 28, 2000, # 265 with technical assistance provided
through project funds. As a result of the project implementation in the Republic of
Chuvashia--if compared to other participating regions--the highest level of monitoring of
budget funds and the most transparent system of public finances have been achieved.

Overall economic effect from implementation of the Fiscal Regional Reform Project and the
Reform Program in the Republic of Chuvashia in 2001 was estimated as 350 million roubles,
what comprises 9 percent of the income of the republican budget, and for 9 months of 2002 it
comprised 620,8 million roubles. Conditional economic effect from the project funds for
technical assistance in 2001 comprised 39 million roubles and for 9 months of 2002 it was
146,7 million roubles. The output of the regional fiscal reform in 2001 was 5,35 roubles per 1
rouble of invested funds and during 9 months of 2002 it was 146,7 roubles per 1 rouble of
invested funds.

Implementation of Regional Fiscal Reform project and RFR program resulted in elimination of
overdue credit debt in the republican budget and significant reduction in the amount of tax
arrears. As an indicator of quality enhancement,, the fact that the Republic of Chuvashia is one
of few RF subjects which fulfilled all obligations on wages for employees involved into



                                             - 16 -

    budgetary process in 2001-2002, with no additional funds from the federal budget in a form of
    loans used for covering financial gaps.

    In June 2003, the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation performed an audit of
    legitimacy and validity of subsidies provided to Vologda oblast from the RFRF and
    effectiveness of their usage for the RFRP implementation and rehabilitation of regional
    finances. The audit revealed that during participation of the Vologda oblast in RFRP both the
    level of budget monitoring and transparency of the system of public finances have been
    improved. In the Vologda oblast,' measures were undertaken for improvement of the
    budgetary process and the budget estimates, the system of inter-budgetary relations,
    monitoring of budget spending, tariff policy, tax basis, debt management, public and municipal
    property monitoring. The reform program implementation created positive prerequisites for
    more effective interrelation between the authorities of the Vologda oblast and federal body of
    the local authorities. Improvement in the image of the Vologda oblast as a region under
    reform, which enhanced the quality of public finances monitoring, could be considered as an
    additional positive result of applied RFRP. According to the calculations performed by the
    inspectors of the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation during the audit, the overall
    economic effect was 53,1 million roubles and with consideration of subsidies it was 360
    million roubles.

    In July 2003, the Accounts Chamber of the Russian Federation performed an audit of
    legitimacy and validity of subsidies provided to Chelyabinsk oblast from the RFRF and
    effectiveness of their usage for the RFRP implementation and rehabilitation of regional
    finances. The audit revealed that during reform implementation the authorities of the
    Chelyabinsk oblast obtained an objective evaluation of the state of the regional finances
    provided by independent experts (consulting firms). More open access to international
    experience (Best Practice Code) and experience of the Russian regions in development and
    implementation of the Reform Program in Chelyabinsk oblast was provided.

    Joint analytical work with consulting firms and seminars conducted during the Project
    implementation ensured improvement in skills of authorities of the Chelyabinsk oblast.

    As a result of the RFRP implementation in Chelyabinsk oblast the following positive changes
    were achieved:
§       Identifiable progress in the budgetary process, in particular, quality enhancement of
planning and more optimal organization of the budget execution
§       Higher level of formalizing of inter-budgetary relations with local budgets, the situation is
becoming more transparent and stable, inter-budgetary relations are built on the principles
stimulating municipal authorities for more productive income collection over definite territory,
introduced are modern methods for the value of transfers to municipal budgets, established are
stable standards for deductions from regulatory taxes to municipal bodies
§       More efficient work with tax payers
§       Enhanced quality of debt management
§       Systematic approach to regional property management is developed
§       Increased rationality in the regional budget and budgets of the municipal bodies through



                                                - 17 -

development of the system of public and municipal procurement and through transfer of the public
institutions to more efficient energy sources
§       Elimination of discrepancies between regional legislation and federal legislation.
§       Decrease in credit arrears

        All above mentioned improves, on the one hand, the investment climate of the region, and,
        on the other, trust of the population in local authorities.

        According to calculations performed by the inspectors of the Accounts Chamber of the
        Russian Federation during the audit, the overall economic effect from RFRF subsidies
        forwarded to Chelyabinsk oblast for reimbursement of previous spending in 2001-2002 is
        106,979.1 thousand roubles.

        6. Continuity of policy. Totally 15 RF subjects received financial support during the years
        of RFRF functioning (the Republic of Chuvash, the Republic of Karelia, Krasnodar,
        Stavropol, Khabarovs krai (regions), Astrakhan, Vologda, Kaluga, Samara, Saratov,
        Perm, Tver, Chelyabinsk oblasts and St. Petersburg, Taimyr (Dolgano-Nenetsk)
        autonomous okrug. They incorporate 23 percent of Russia population and 17 percent of
        spending of consolidated budgets of RF subjects. In RF subjects receiving RFRF subsidies
        the quality of regional finances monitoring has been enhanced, significantly improving the
        state of budgets. In most of these RF subjects implementation of structural reforms that
        were started at RFRF support is still going on.

        Even with modest resources utilized, the important stimulating effect of RFRF made in
        expedient to use the RFRF in future. However at that next stage, the resources would
        come solely from the federal budget.

        Taking into account the results achieved, the Government of the Russian Federation made
        a decision on continuation of the Program at the expense of the federal budget. Since
        2005, using same principles as RFRF, the Fund of Regional and Municipal Fiscal Reform
        (FRMFR) has been established as a part of federal budget. In 2004, RF subjects that
        implemented Reform Programs were added by other 8 RF subjects from first cohort
        competition (the Republic of Komi, the Republic of Marii-El, the Republic of Sakha
        (Yakutiya), the Republic of Khakasia, Belgorod, Kirov, Leningrad and Smolensk oblasts.
        Since 2005, competition based selection has been launched for the Fund subsidies to
        municipal bodies.

        The project principles are distributed to other levels of the budget system, they affect, on
        the one hand, the level of interrelation between the RF subjects and municipal bodies
        through establishing Funds of fiscal regional reform as a part of regional budgets, on the
        other, the level of relationship between the federal budget and federal ministries and
        departments during formulation and execution of federal budget and implementation of the
        principles of the budgetary process oriented to definite results.

        The Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation considers the project, which in general



                                                 - 18 -

        combined both the established Fund of Regional Fiscal Reform and Regional Fiscal
        Reform Program, as one of the most successful projects performed jointly with the IBRD.
        Continuation of further cooperation in budget reforms conducted both at federal and
        regional levels will help create positive conditions for stable economic growth and
        enhanced efficiency of the public finance system in Russia.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

In addition to monitoring the tranche release conditions and the minimum mandatory standards,
an inventory of the main accomplishment of each region (St. Petersburg has the same status as a
region) was prepared. Those accomplishments are as follows:

St Petersburg - monitoring and execution of off-budget accounts by the city treasury; adoption of
an advanced methodology for equalization transfers and tax sharing arrangements; work on
prevention of new overdue accounts payable by budgetary organizations to natural monopolies;
adoption of advanced debt management practices which allows the city to comply fully with its
debt liabilities; improved internal audit of the use of budget funds; the use of targeted welfare
benefits (allowances).

Samarskaya oblast- gradual transformation towards treasury principles of budget execution;
improved equalization transfers methodology; monitoring of the consolidated debt of the public
sector; monitoring and capping tax exemptions; overdue accounts payable by the regional
Administration and budgetary organizations were completely eliminated; a new asset management
strategy was developed.

Chelyabinskaya oblast- contract registration system adoption and implementation started; a
system for checking compliance of contracts with different limits was implemented; more
advanced equalization transfers methodology approved and implemented; a cap on tax benefits
was put in the law on the annual budget; overdue arrears of the oblast budget and budgetary
organizations to natural monopolies were completely phased out; a debt ledger created and
consolidated public sector debt liabilities are monitored; steps towards building more advanced
treasury system made; asset management strategy and privatization program started to be
implemented; real estate registration improved.

Vologodskaya oblast- gradual minimization of amendments to the annual budget law;
consolidation of off-budget funds; gradual introduction of treasury system; improved contract
registration system; the decision to allocate 10% of net profit of unitary enterprises to the regional
budget made; methodology on assessment of tax exemptions adopted; utility tariffs audits
conducted in seven municipalities; monitoring of consolidated public sector debt liabilities
performed; formal methodology on assessment of expenditure efficiency adopted.

Republic of Chuvashia- eighty percent reduction in tax arrears due to the regional budget in the
first nine months of 2002; liquidation of cross-subsidization with respect to utility tariffs;
adjustment in utility tariffs was accompanied by targeted assistance to the poor and energy savings
measures; gradual transformation towards treasury system made; consolidation of off-budget
revenue and spending by treasury; a modern tax sharing/equalization transfers system established;
legal base for the modern budget cycle created and necessary budget procedures implemented.

Five out of seven regions from the second cohort, Astrakhanskaya oblast, Saratovskaya oblast,
Krasnodarskiy kray, Khabarovskiy kray, Republic of Karelia have successfully completed stage
one and received federal grants in December 2002, while four out of seven regions from the



                                                - 20 -

second cohort Astrakhanskaya oblast, Krasnodarskiy kray, Khabarovskiy kray, Republic of
Karelia were successful on stage two of their reform programs and got federal grants in June
2004. The regions achieved significant progress in the following areas:

Astrakhanskaya oblast - extrabudgetary funds consolidated into the oblast budget; more advanced
equalization methodology applied; inventory and monitoring of federal mandates performed;
monitoring of unitary enterprises and enterprises with the oblast stake started; asset management
techniques improved; issuance of guarantees formalized; inventory and balance sheet for assets
and liabilities of the region compiled; overdue payables decreased; privatization program for
2003-04 approved and implemented; concept for expenditure priorities for 2003-05 approved and
used in preparation and execution of 2004 budget; a series of legislative acts on tender procedures
passed and applied in budget procurement practices (83 percent of expenditures are covered by
tender procedures).

Republic of Karelia- treasury principles of budget execution implemented, including single
account principle; information on accounts payable and receivable is available to the public;
control over targeted use of funds tightened; debt ledger was created and debt management
system improved; relatively stable and formalized system of tax sharing and equalization transfers
adopted; progress in centralized registration of real estate transactions achieved; budgetary loans
to municipalities capped in annual budgets; methodology for tax expenditures estimates approved
and applied in the course of the budget cycle; oblast contingent liabilities monitored and assessed;
risk assessment methods in debt management practices introduced; creditworthiness of the
republic evaluated by S&P; concept of targeted regional welfare benefits approved; balance sheet
of the republic compiled; internal auditing procedures improved.

Krasnodarskiy kray- capital budget started to be developed; internal audit procedures improved;
improved open tender-budget procurement practices introduced; debt management practices
strengthened; concept of targeted regional welfare benefits approved and a database for welfare
recipients created; extrabudgetary funds consolidated into the regular budget; fully operational
treasury system created; formulae for equalization transfers approved and applied in the course of
the annual budget cycle; kray contingent liabilities monitored; asset management improved;
automatic budget procurement system created.

Saratovskaya oblast- regional treasury is phased in; inventory of debt liabilities and unified system
of debt liabilities monitoring created; better procedures for debt registration of regional and
municipal unitary enterprises adopted; real estate registration system installed; asset management
concept approved; guarantees streamlined; internal audit practices strengthened; risk management
in debt policy improved; off-budget accounts of budgetary organizations consolidated into the
budget; formulae for equalization transfers introduced and used in the budget process; budgetary
loans to municipal budgets capped; contingent liabilities of the regional budget monitored;
overdue payables of oblast budget to natural monopolies eliminated.

Khabarovskiy kray- budget forecasting and financial planning improved; kray extrabudgetary
funds consolidated into the budget; assessment of regional health ministry expenditures by means
of special methodology made; stable equalization transfers formula introduced; monitoring and



                                               - 21 -

audit of unitary enterprises and enterprises with the region's stake(50%) performed; kray Budget
Cod e improved; internal auditing procedures including audit of kray unitary enterprises
strengthened and kray unitary enterprises audited; management and monitoring of kray unitary
enterprises performed; methodology for allocation of equalization transfers fixed for three years;
full fledged treasury system made operational; off-budget accounts of budgetary organizations
consolidated into the budget and covered by treasury budget execution; kray balance sheet
compiled and published in regional mass media.

Four out of eight regions from the third cohort: Permskaya oblast, Kaluzhskaya oblast,
Stavropolskiy kray, and Taymirskiy Autonomous Okrug have successfully completed stage one of
their reform programs and have received federal grants in December 2003.

The following regions from the third cohort were competing on the second phase of
implementation of their respective reform programs: Permskaya oblast, Tverskaya oblast,
Kaluzhskaya oblast, Stavropolskiy kray, Taymirskiy Autonomous Okrug, Krasnoyarskiy kray,
Leningradskaya oblast, and Republic of Mary- El.

Four regions qualified for the receipt of federal grants: Permskaya oblast, Tverskaya oblast,
Kaluzhskaya oblast, and Stavropolskiy kray. The regions achieved significant progress in the
following areas:

Permskaya oblast- asset management and privatization program started to be implemented; a cap
on tax exemptions was put in the law on the annual budget and tax exemptions are estimated
according to the formal methodology; modern tax sharing/equalization transfers system
established; high quality budget planning system put in place (no deviation between actual and
budgeted revenue, deviation between actual and budgeted expenditures are just 3 percent);
independent audit of two budget entities performed in 2003; debt ledger created and consolidated
public sector debt liabilities are monitored; concept of transformation of regional benefits towards
targeted social assistance in a cash form approved; Moody.s rating (Ba3) received in 2003; real
estate registration improved; modern debt management system installed; full fledged treasury
system created; budget revenue of budget organizations incorporated into the budget; a cap on
tax exemptions was put in the annual budget law and there are no new tax exemptions granted by
the oblast; municipalities. tax capacity assessment improved; independent audit of execution of the
oblast 2003 budget performed in 2004; concept of transformation of regional benefits towards
targeted social assistance in a cash form approved and implementation started; Moody.s rating
upgraded in 2004; legislation on oblast public procurement passed and implemented; results of
population surveys incorporated into oblast annual budget; monitoring of oblast unitary
enterprises strenghtened.

Kaluzhskaya oblast- gradual transformation towards treasury principles of budget execution
continued- this system is fully operational now; equalization transfers methodology and tax
sharing arrangements improved; debt ledger established; consolidated debt of the public sector
monitored; clear asset management and privatization strategy developed; regional tax exemptions
estimated, capped and monitored; modern debt management system installed; provision of
inter-budgetary loans formalized and their amount capped; client surveys performed in pre-school



                                                - 22 -

institutions and with respect to medical services, the results incorporated into annual oblast
budget; assessment of municipalities. expenditure needs modernized; consolidated balance sheet
of oblast developed and published; public procurement system strengthened (54 percent of goods
and services procured through tenders); concept on monetization of in-kind benefits approved;
.one-window. centers for registration of real estate and land transactions created in 6
municipalities (including oblast capital Kaluga); cross subsidization eliminated with respect to
heat.

Stavropolskiy kray- fully operational treasury system installed; off-budget revenue of budget
entities incorporated into the budget and 100 percent covered by the regional treasury; budget
process covered by special software system; capital budget prepared; concept of transformation of
regional benefits towards targeted social assistance in a cash form approved; modern tax
sharing/equalization transfers system established and expenditure assignments clarified; region has
about 300 municipalities and thus is ready for 2006 major reshuffle in the local self-government
system in Russia; budgetary loans to municipalities are capped and clear criteria for their
allocation established in the legislation; regional tax exemptions estimated and attached to the
annual budget law; plan with gradual phasing out of cross-subsidization with respect to utility
tariffs approved; debt ledger established and consolidated public sector debt liabilities monitored;
property management concept approved; concept on creation of the land market approved;
necessary legislation for regional tenders passed; off-budget revenue of budget organizations
consolidated into the budget and is subject to treasury execution; 284 municipalities are covered
by treasury principles of budget execution; in 2004 S&P assigned BB+ (foreign currency) and
BBB- (local currency) ratings to the kray; regional tax exemptions capped and no new tax
exemptions were granted in 2004; client surveys conducted in education, health, and social
protection and the results were incorporated into the annual budget; all regional in-kind benefits
monetized; registry for land plots owned by kray developed and is fully operational; concept on
optimization of education expenditures approved; cross subsidization eliminated for heat and hot
water.

Taymirskiy Autonomous Okrug- assessment of regional social benefits performed; medium term
financial plan integrated with the three year economic forecast; all extrabudgetary funds and
off-budget revenue of budgetary entities incorporated into the regional budget; 100 percent
coverage of the regional budget by the federal treasury; concept of transformation towards
regional treasury system approved; modern tax sharing/equalization transfers system established;
debt ledger made operational and consolidated public sector debt liabilities monitored; measures
to eliminate administrative barriers for SME development approved; restructuring agreements on
.centralized loans with the federal budget signed and implemented; property management concept
approved; steps towards .one window. principle of real estate registration made; internal control
body created within regional administration; assessment of all regional, municipal, and federal
social benefits performed; privatization program approved and implemented; modern debt
management system installed; lease payments received by okrug unitary enterprises incorporated
into the budget; okrug property registry developed and made fully operational; transformation
towards treasury coverage of all municipalities started; client survey in education and social
protection performed.




                                               - 23 -

Tverskaya oblast- full scale implementation of the treasury system of the oblast budget execution;
oblast capital budget started to be prepared; special legislation on openness of the budget process
passed; special registration system for targeted social assistance installed; compliance with the
federal standards for cost recovery of housing and utility services achieved; debt ledger put in
place; all assets and liabilities of the oblast assessed and monitored on a regular basis; modern
debt management system made operational; client surveys with respect to the quality of medical
services and social services to families of military personnel performed; development of municipal
treasuries started; off budget revenue of budget organizations consolidated into the budget;
modern tax sharing/equalization transfers system established; transformation towards the new
system of intra-regional transfers stipulated in the federal Law On Local Self-Governance started
one year earlier than in all other Russian regions; oblast public procurement legislation passed and
implementation started (tenders are a priority); oblast property management concept developed;
privatization program developed and implementation started; land market development concept
approved and inventory of land plots conducted.

Krasnoyarskiy kray- dissemination of the tender information through regional mass media became
obligatory according to amendments to the regional legislation; equalization transfers formulae
applied to annual budgets; inter-budgetary loans formalized; about 90 percent of budget entities
are covered by the treasury system; property management concept approved.

Leningradskaya oblast- no overdue debt to the federal budget on budgetary loans; off-budget
revenue of budget entities covered by 2004 draft budget; budgetary loans to municipalities
capped; property management concept drafted; gradual implementation of the oblast treasury
system continued (80 percent coverage); transformation towards treasury coverage of
municipalities started; equalization transfers formulae developed.

Republic of Mary-El- methodology for equalization transfers to municipalities was approved and
applied to the annual budget; consolidated debt management improved (debt and overdue
liabilities of unitary enterprises and enterprises with the stake of the Republic monitored);
assessment of regional social benefits performed; off-budget revenue of budget organizations
incorporated into the budget; treasury system created (federal treasury network is used);
inter0budgetary loans capped; concept on property management approved; client surveys with
respect to budget services conducted in the capital of the Republic Yoshkar-Ola.




                                                 - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Strengthening System of Fiscal Federalism                   60.00           60.00              100
Implementation of Regional Fiscal Refom                     60.00           60.00              100

Total Baseline Cost                                        120.00          120.00
                        Total Project Costs                120.00          120.00
                          Interest during construction
                  Total Financing Required                 120.00          120.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00        0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00        0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        0.00           0.78        0.78
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.07)       (0.07)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00        0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous



                                                - 25 -

                                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.78              0.78
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.07)           (0.07)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Strengthening System of        60.00                                                                      0.0
Fiscal Federalism
Implementation of              60.00                                                                      0.0
Regional Fiscal Reform




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               01/10/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR               S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              ECONOMIST (1)
               09/28/2000                4    TEAM LEADER 1); LEAD                  S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              ECONOMIST (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               04/17/2001                3    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD                 S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              ECONOMIST (1)
               10/02/2001                1    LEAD ECONOMIST (1)                    S               S
               11/27/2001                3    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD                 S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              ECONOMIST (1)

 Supervision

               10/18/2002                 2   TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1)
               02/14/2003                 1   TASK MANAGER (1)                      S               S
               11/04/2004                 2   TTL (1); SENIOR ECONOMIST             S               S
                                              (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   83.54                      770,301.64
  Supervision                             56.64                      263,744.34
  ICR                                      8.00                       25,419.83
  Total                                 148.18                     1,059,465.81




                                               - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation : Report on Implementation of Fiscal
    Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan # 4647 RU provided by the International Bank
    for Reconstruction and Development. December 2005
2. Russian Federation - Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan: Release of the Second
    Tranche - Full Compliance on June 16, 2003
3. Russian Federation - Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan: Release of the Third
    Tranche - Full Compliance on May 28, 2004
4. Final Implementation Status and Result for Russian Federation - Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal
    Reform Project #08 June 29, 2005
5. Russia Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan: Impact on Regional Performance - Early
    Assessment, Lev Frienkmand and Mikhail Pryadilnikov, World Bank, November 2004
6. Russian Federation - Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Loan: Quality Enhancement
    Review held on May 23, 2001. The QER
        panel includes Professor Richard Bird (University of Toronto); Mark Sundberg (SASPR); and
Dana Weist (EASPR). (full text follows)

              Russian Federation: Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform Project
                                       Quality Enhancement Review
                                        Report of the QER Panel
                                              May 29, 2001

1.      A QER panel composed of Richard Bird (Chairman), Mark Sundberg (SASPR), and Dana Weist
(EASPR), reviewed the proposed Russian Federation Fiscal Federalism and Regional Fiscal Reform
(FFRFR) on May 23, 2001. We would like to thank the task team and others who participated in an
extremely open and productive discussion. This note summarizes our main conclusions and makes some
suggestions that we hope might improve the design and impact of this project.

Overall assessment

2.      The panel was impressed by the extensive and careful work of the task team and, in particular, by
the very close relationships that had obviously been formed with the Russian counterpart team in the
Ministry of Finance, a representative of which was present at the discussion. We fully agree that the
proposed work is critical to establishing a manageable framework for intergovernmental fiscal relations in
Russia. In particular, we think that the proposed FFRFR adjustment loan to Russia is commendably
innovative in its approach towards supporting major reforms in the highly complex and politically sensitive
area of sub-national fiscal reform. The scheme that has been designed to foster competition among regions
for access to the Regional Reform Fund (RRF) provides a way in which to leverage resources effectively
both to promote improvements in the design of intergovernmental fiscal relations generally and, more
specifically,  the reform of public resource management, including better budget transparency and
accountability, at the regional governmental level. The panel is thus highly supportive of the project.
However, we did identify a number of areas in which there appears to be some room for improvement in
program design or presentation, as noted below.

Simplify program conditionality and focus more on Regional Reform Fund

3.      As currently presented, the proposed loan has two distinct though complementary elements: the



                                                  - 31 -

reform of fiscal federal relations in Russia in general and the establishment of the Regional Reform Fund in
particular. Most of the conditionality in the loan relates to a comprehensive and very ambitious set of
benchmarks for reforming intergovernmental fiscal relations in the Russian Federation. Although all the
reforms set out seem desirable, both the broad range and the highly specific nature of the conditionality
with respect to such reforms as the reduction of major unfunded mandates, the rationalization of
expenditure and tax assignments, the reformulation of intergovernmental transfers and the like appear to us
to be not only extraordinarily difficult, if not impossible, to achieve in Russia, but to risk holding the rest of
the program hostage to meeting these conditions. The panel felt that few, if any, countries, let alone the
Russian Federation, could realistically be expected to meet all these conditions in the short time frame of
this project. The objectives that the program document suggests this loan will achieve are so broad as to
run the risk of creating unrealistic expectations and to dilute the importance of what seems to be the real
central objective of the RRF ­ to provide a framework and incentives for the reform of regional financial
management. The risk that such overstatement poses for the perceived success of the program, and hence
to achieving the objective of the RRF to support regional financial reform, is a matter of serious concern.

4.       To deal with this problem, we recommend two steps. First, the scope and specificity of the
conditions linked to the large agenda for intergovernmental fiscal reform should be reduced. For example,
instead of identifying specific actions in each area that must be accomplished in order to trigger the next
tranche of the loan, it would be better to permit greater flexibility and phasing of the reform measures. It is
of course understandable that many would prefer the targets set to be as "hard" and as "objective" as
possible, just as it is understandable that from the perspective of the Russian team involved in this project
that they prefer a loan in the present multi-tranche form with conditions defined up front for operational
reasons. In this instance, however, we think that holding the RRF hostage to a wide range of difficult
conditions that are not really related to its purposes and objectives is not advisable.

5.       Second, along the same lines, we would be more selective in the conditionality in order to
emphasize those areas which are most closely linked to the immediate policy framework affecting regional
fiscal policies, and hence of relevance to the RRF. For example, it is clearly necessary and desirable to
achieve clear progress towards clarifying tax assignment to regional governments in order to improve the
stability of regional revenues and provide greater independence over regional revenue mobilization and also
to reduce the number and importance of unfunded mandates, establish hard budget constraints, improving
the allocation of transfers, and so on. But it does not seem to us a good idea to specify in advance just how
and in what sequence such objectives should be attained. Reforming intergovernmental fiscal relations is
both technically and politically too complicated a subject to lay down in advance a precise schedule of what
will be considered acceptable progress. If greater clarity in the definition of what constitutes `progress' is
desired, it might perhaps be better handled through different examples detailed in the `Minutes of
Negotiation' in order to avoid over-determining the conditionality.

Monitoring of program outcomes

6.       Given the detailed attention currently paid in the project document to the conditionalities related to
general intergovernmental fiscal reform, there is surprisingly little specific discussion of monitorable
outcomes related directly to the objectives and purpose of the RRF program.                 It would, we think,
strengthen the program design if further thought were given to what the specific, measureable and
monitorable objectives of the program are, and how they can be monitored. For this reason, the panel
encourages the team to focus on the impact of the RRF on identifiable regional budget management and
financial management reforms, rather than on the broader agenda of reforms to the system of fiscal federal
relations. We suggest below that the present framework of selection criteria set out for the RRF seems
unduly and inappropriately detailed. On the other hand, many of these same criteria would seem to provide


                                                      - 32 -

a sensible system of "outcome indicators" that might be used for monitoring program effectiveness in those
regions benefiting from the RRF. More generally, since one of the principal outcomes (and probably
objectives) of this project is to improve the data available on regional finances it might be appropriate to
say something about the potential value of such data, for example, to help determine where TA is most
needed and helpful, to provide information on best practices that can be more widely disseminated, as well
as "comparator" information to spur regions to greater efforts, as well as more generally to understand
better what is really going on in the regional governments that are directly responsible for so many
activities in Russia.

Clearer presentation of program objectives and context

7.        Although after discussion with the team we were convinced that the project has in fact been
prepared with very clear objectives, we think these are not as clearly presented in the present document as
they should be. The current document refers to such grand objectives of the loan as enhancing macro
stabilization, inducing major structural reforms, improving poverty reduction, and strengthening public
sector management. No doubt such language helps anchor the loan to stated country assistance strategy
(CAS) objectives. Nonetheless, while understandable, we think that this approach does a disservice to the
loan document in that it unnecessarily obscures what are really the primary objectives of the loan. We
think that the essential aim of the RRF ­ to support important regional financial management reforms to
provide the essential informational base and incentive structure needed for transparency and accountability
-- is in and of itself a sufficiently and critically important, complex, and justifiable objective for the
program without appeal to other indirect or incidental benefits. To the extent this project succeeds in
improving the public financial management of Russia's regional governments, it will provide an important
and necessary (but not sufficient) condition that will indeed facilitate (though not in itself ensure) the
attainment of such other vital goals as poverty alleviation, the reform of public administration, and the
many other good things mentioned in the document. This would be no small achievement, and seems to us
in itself to provide more than enough justification for this project.

8.        In addition, we also think that the presentation of the loan would be strengthened if the strong
linkage between the regional fiscal reform TA loan and the present operation were more clearly developed
and emphasized. It was clear from the discussion at the meeting that these two operations had been
envisioned as complementary by both the Bank and the Government of the Russian Federation (GoR) from
the outset, although this is not at the moment very apparent from the program document. We consider this
linkage to be one of the strengths of the program and think understanding it helps to clarify both the
sequencing of events and the consistency of approach over recent years, It would thus be helpful to have it
stated more clearly in the document. It might also be useful to note that the lessons learned from the
experience of the RRF project will undoubtedly prove useful in guiding and shaping any future TA in this
area. On the other hand, it should be noted further that clarifying the relation between the TA and RRF
loans would make it necessary also to clarify more than is now the case exactly how the selection system is
supposed to work in future rounds when access to sub-national fiscal reform TA will not, as in the first
round, be part of the process. Finally, and more broadly, it might be useful in terms of presentation to
diagram the strong links between this project with its relatively narrow (but important) focus on
encouraging and facilitating sub-national financial management reform and the broader reforms in
intergovernmental finance mentioned above and other projects. Doing so could, we suggest, make the
importance and centrality of this effort to improve regional financial management in the broader context of
Russian (and Bank-related) reforms and objectives clearer than is now the case.

Government ownership of the program




                                                     - 33 -

9.       We were impressed by the extent to which the GoR has been actively involved in development of
this loan, including design of the RRF. (In this respect, the panel found it particularly useful that the head
of the Ministry of Finance cell working on development of the RRF was present at the discussion.) The
clearly demonstrated government ownership of the RRF program clearly both reduces program risks and
makes success more likely. Indeed, we think that it would perhaps have been appropriate to highlight more
in the text both the lead taken by GoR in project design and its obvious high commitment to this project.
Although there are some elements of the RRF design that we felt might be improved upon, it is important to
remember that they have been formulated, and hence are clearly owned, by the Government. However, the
absence of clear GoR commitment of own budget resources to the RRF raises some questions. We
recognize that this is a program loan, and hence the resources are strictly GoR budget resources. However,
the size of the RRF is identical to the RRF funding, and it is quite clear that in effect the plan is to fully
finance the RRF through borrowing from the Bank. The question that then arises is why, if GoR is as
committed to this program as it seems to be, it has not directed additional budget resources to the RRF,
thus signalling its strong commitment to this concept.           The present formulation may have been
understandable several years ago, when this loan was first taking shape amidst severe budget austerity
measures, but the resource arguments that may have prevailed then seem no longer persuasive. We suggest
that possible counterpart financial contributions to the RRF should be considered to ensure both
commitment and sustainability.

Sustainability of the Regional Fund

10.      The RRF as structured in the document is clearly intended to be a "lead" program, encouraging
and facilitating regional financial reform directly in only a fraction of Russia's regions during its projected
life. The broader objective of the program, however, is presumably to upgrade financial management
practices throughout the country. It would therefore have been useful to have at least some discussion of
issues related to the sustainability of the RRF, or at least of the reforms it is supposed to encourage and
facilitate. One way to do so, as already noted, would be to set out more clearly the present and expected
future financial commitments of the the GoR to this activity.           The present program documentation
discusses briefly some measures important to sustaining the RRF, such as continuing technical assistance
to regions competing for RRF resources (to be provided by DFID and others). However, we felt there
could be more clarity in presenting the arguments for sustainability of the fund.

11.      For example, an important presentational point that emerged in the discussion and should, we
suggest, be emphasized more in the text in order to underline the importance of the RRF as an incentive to
improving regional financial management is that the amounts involved are by no means trivial from the
perspective of the regions, in some cases amounting to more than 10 percent of regional budgets. The
incentive offered, especially to poorer regions, by the RRF is thus far from trivial. It would thus have been
useful to see a more explicit discussion of the incentives for different regions (at different stages of
development) to compete. We suspect this discussion would show that only some of Russia's many regions
can realistically be expected to do so. This is not a criticism of the program as designed, but it does
suggest that it would be useful both to sketch how the lessons learned from this experience are expected to
be generalized and (as noted earlier) how TA, for example, might be used to bring other regions, as it were,
at least up to the starting line.   It might also be useful to have at least some discussion of how "best
practices" observed in the better regions ­ the "winners" in the contest, as it were ­ are to be disseminated
more widely. Along the same lines, it might be useful to discuss the resource requirements if the program
were to expand coverage to other regions and to have a longer life than currently envisioned. Given that
reform of regional financial management and institutions is likely to be a major undertaking requiring far
longer than four years, particularly in regions with weak capacity, these are not a minor points and provide
an additional reason why it would seem desirable to see an increasing degree of GoR budgetary


                                                     - 34 -

commitment as the program develops.

Clarity and continuity of `Contest Rules'

12.       The panel discussed at length the rules by which regions are to be selected for access to the RRF.
Although, as noted earlier, we fully recognize that this scheme is the result of much careful work by the
Russian team, and that in the end, the decision as to how to operate this system is clearly theirs to make, we
nonetheless felt that the selection criteria and formulation of the ranking are unnecessarily complex and not
as transparent as desirable. While we stress that we do not see this problem as critical to the project design,
we do think that the result is to obscure important elements of inevitably subjective judgment under a series
of multiple index elements. The present extremely detailed design shows deep understanding and
recognition of the process of reforming regional financial management, but it appears to unnecessarily
complicate what is really going on. Scaling indicators and presenting results to four decimal places is far
too much of a good thing.         Simplifying the selection criteria would help to make the process more
transparent and easier for the regions to understand and comply with. The panel commended the sensitivity
analysis of the selection criteria that had been carried out and noted that since the outcome of this analysis
seemed to be that many of the detailed indices made no significant difference to the results, it appeared a
more simplified (and comprehensible) approach could be used.          To repeat, we recognize that the design
and implementation of this system is very much a Russian operation, with all the "ownership" benefits that
signifies. Still, it is both unnecessarily complicated in principle and is, again in principle, conceivably
vulnerable to a certain degree of manipulation both by the government and perhaps also by some of the
more astute regions. Although we were told, and we have no reason to doubt, that no such "game-playing"
had occurred to date, care must be exercised to avoid the emergence of such problems in the future.

13.        We were told that consideration is currently being given to changing the rules of the current
contest for access to the RRF by providing grants to all current regions that have made the first two cuts,
rather than a subset of the regions.        The panel cautioned against the potential for undermining the
credibility of the process if the rules are changed mid-course. The process adopted in the RRF is both
innovative and complicated. While some learning and consequent revision of the approach is doubtless
both inevitable and desirable, it is critical that the rules should not be altered in a manner that will create
undesirable incentives. For example, should it be considered necessary for whatever reason, to make some
sort of payment to the two lowest ranking regions as well as to the five "winners," it is essential that this
should be done in some way other than declaring that "every one is a winner" if the essence of the
competition approach underlying the present selection system is not to be vitiated. It would of course be
possible to change the process from its present "contest" (or "tournament") format to one in which, in
effect, all those who met a certain (pre-set) standard would win, but this would of course change
completely the dynamics and incentive structure of the project and would certainly call for further
evaluation before being implemented.




                                                      - 35 -

- 36 -

