Document of
The World Bank
For Official Use Only
Report No: 19551
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2359 - BI)
June 30, 1999
Private Sector Group (AFTP1)
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  Burundi Franc (FBU)
US$1.00                        FBU 236.55 (average, CY1992)
US$1.00            =           FBU535.58 (average, March 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE        Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique
National Development Bank
BRB         Banque de la Republique du Burundi (Central Bank)
CCIB        Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie du Burundi
Chamber of Commerce of Burundi
CCP         Cellule de Coordination de Politiques
(Sector Policy Coordination Unit)
CGP         Cellule de Gestion du Projet (Project Management Unit)
ESAF        Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MOF         Ministry of Finance
PMU         Project Management Unit
PFI         Participating Financial Institutions
PSD         Private Sector Development
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
TA          Technical Assistance
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice-President:                        Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:                      Emmanuel Mbi, AFC09
Sector Manager:                       Demba Ba, AFTP1
Task Team Leader:                      Fran,ois Nankobogo, AFTP 1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2359-BI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ............................................... i
Statement and L'valuation of Project Objectives ..................................... ............... - .
Intplementation Experience ancl Results .................       ............................... . .
Summary Findings, F uture Operations, and Kev Lessons l,earned .........r.....................................iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................................                    I
A.    BACKGROU)ND    . . .                                 ....................................................   I
B. STATENIENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECTI OBJI1C'IIVES ..........................         ......................... 2
C.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBIJECTIVES ....... 4
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THIE PROJEC                                         .. 9
E.  PROJECT SUsTAINABILV.ITY . 
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................                                                                      11
G. BORROWER'S PERFORNIWCE ................... 12
H.   ASSESSMENTI OF OUTCOEII ..................:                                                             13
1. FiTURE OPERATIONS .................. 15
J.  KEY LESSONS LLARNED..................                                                                    1 5
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES .17
T,U3LE 1: SUMMARY OF AsSESSMII.N I.                                                                          17
T.U31E 2: RELATED BA.ANK CRItS.l)l l   S                                                                     19
TA3LE 3: PROJECT TImETABI .E.                                                                              20
TA13LE4: LoA)N/CRIDU DirDisI3ilRSI\ENTINS: CUN\IMlUEll\XI  EsIINI\An.I):\NI) ACT. Al    2()
Table 5: Kev Indicators for Project Implementation.                                                         21
Table 6: Key, Indicators for Project Opcration                                                              21
Table 7:  Studics Included in Project                                                                       22
Table 8A: Project Costs                                                                                     23
Table 8B: Project Financinig                                                                                23
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Bcnefits  ................ ......       ..                  .  ..          . . 24
Table     10:    Status   of  Legal  C ovenants  4.....................................................................   .....-......... .... 24
TAI31.E 1I1: CO.NIIMPLIANCE WHUI 111 OIEI.RA I l()NAI . MANv AE S1 A I I.NII N-I  S  ................................. MA A....................................... ......... 24
T,U31.E 12: B3.XNKRRESOURCES: Sil.-U INPUTS ..................................25....... ...... .......- 25
TA3LE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..........................                                               26
APPENDICES:
APPENDIX A: MISSION's AIDE-MENMOIRE
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2359-BI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Sector
Development Project in Burundi, for which IDA Credit 2359-BI In the amoulnt of
SDR12.4 million (US$17 million equivalent) was approved on April 30, 1992, and made
effective on February 28, 1993. Disbursements for the Credit were suspended on October
10, 1996, pursuant to section 6.02 of the General Conditions, and they were reactivated in
October 1997. An amount of SDR6.4 million (or US$8.78 million equivalent) was
cancelled in October 1997.
The Credit was closed on March 3 1, 1999, after two extensions of the closing
date, originally scheduled for December 31, 1997. As of May 15, 1999, approximately
SDR5. 1 million (US$7.36 million equivalent) was disbursed. An undisbursed balance of
SDRO.9 million (or US$1.27 million equivalent) will be cancelled.
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Franc,ois Nankobogo, Private Sector Group of the
Africa Region, with the contribution of Mr. lrosper Nindorer-a trom the BurLndi Resident
Mission. It was reviewed by Messrs. Demba Ba. SectoI Manager, and lain Christie, Lead
Specialist, Private Sector Group, anid LFnrmanuel Mbi, Country l)irector for B3urundi. 'rhe
Borrower's contribution to the ICR is included as Appendix B3.
Preparation of this ICR was beguL (illuring the 13aBnk's tinal supervision/completion
mission, March 23-April 2, 1 999) It is based on both tield mlissioni tindings and material in
thie project files. The Borrower con1tributedL to the preparation of thc IC'R by participating
in the final supervision mission as refllecte( in the ai(le-nlcinloolr, comlllenting on the
Bank's draft ICR, and providing thirci (oVwn iassCssmilenIt oftthe project's imilplenentation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2359-BI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I.    The Private Sector Development project was designed in 1991 in order to help
accelerate the supply response to the then ongoing Structural Adjustment Program by
providing long-term financing to private enterprises, facilities to investors through a sites
and services component, and technical assistance and training. The project was approved
in April 1992 and made effective in February 1993 Although the project was started
before the closing of another APEX project, it built on lessons learned during the
implementation stage of that project, and from experiences with previous operations.
2.    The project was well suited to the Government's policy framework lor private
sector and financial sector development. Several other donors, ilcluding USAID, the
European Union and France were engaged in private sector promotion activities. The
project was designed to help coordinate sector policies, modernize the legal and
regulatory framework, and foster export diversification.
3.    While the project was designed at a time when the country was making strides in
its adjustment program, its implementationi was fraught with difficulties stemming from the
political instability which started in 1993, the economic embargo imposed by countries of
the region from mid- 1 996 to early 1'999, andi internal coordiniation problems.
Statement and Evaltiation of Prroject Objectives
4.    The project's overarchilnig obctive was to assist 13urulldi in promoting sustained
growth through the establishmnctt ol'ani ilcentitCvc framework for export-oriented private
sector investment. Thie project aimlled at rcmioving institutinal, legal and regulatory
obstacles which were nol tackled thrugh macrocconomic retormns supported by
adjustment operations and tcchllical assistanccc ploiects. I'hc removal of micro-policy and
institutional barriers, combine(d withi actioni at the enterp rise and finiancial levels, would
stimulate the private inivestient responsc, iuicilh nceded f;or sustained economic growth
and the diversification of'thc econolmiy
5. The project was to provide multi-faceted techniical assistance to Government, financial
institutions and the private non-bankinig sector to implement and take advantage of the
reform measures. This was to be achieved in a coordinated manner with other donors



- ii -
providing technical assistance and expertise in enterprise management and training, export
and private sector promotion.
6.    The project consisted of a line of credit for productive investments, support to
industrial infrastructure, improvements in the business environment and in financial
intermediation, and technical assistance in support of private sector development. The
credit component aimed at providing foreign exchange, through eligible financial
intermediaries, to finance economically viable, financially protitable and environmentally
sound projects submitted by local and foreign private borrowers. The project also sought
to provide industrial plots, which would be developed under a sites and services
component, so that project promoters could execute their investment plans without
unnecessary delay. In addition, the project would support the modernization of the legal
and regulatory framework and the improvement of institutional capacities to accelerate the
growth of a private sector.
7.    Given the momentum for reform and the higll level of commitment amomié various
development partners that existed at the time of this project preparation, all these
components were justified and well needed to address major issues which constr-ainied an
accelerated development of the private sector in Burundi.
Implementation Experience and Results
8.    The project was approved at a time when Burundi's performance on the economiiic
reform front was considered to be among the best in the sub-Saharan Africa. Iiowevel- its
implementation coincided with a difficult period of political and social crisis. Several
aspects of the private sector and finanicial sector development policies were related to the
continuation of the adjustment program supported by the third Structural Adjustmnenit
Credit (SAC 111) and the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). Untortunately,
the adjustment program, for reasons related to the country's political crisis, derailed within
months following the efTectiveness of the credit, and several measures that were to be
taken between mid-1992 and end-1994 did not take place. For example, the tariffretborrl
and the revision of the investment incentive framework was not carried out. As the clrisis
and the trade blockade caused the Government's foreign reserves to dwindle, the Cenltral
[lank even proceeded to reverse some of the trade promotion measures previously taklen
under the ESAF and imposed restrictions on foreign exchange in November 1997.
9     Despite the difficult environment from the beginning of the project, the invest incnt
component made a good start and managed to finance 34 projects in two years ot its
operation for about 40 percent of the allocated amount. The sites and services componcnt
however experienced problems from the outset: the initial site was allocated for another
use by the Ministry of Public Works (see para. 18). Although the Government
subsequently deployed efforts to make another site available and spent up to US$1.5
million equivalent, from its budget resources, on the needed basic infrastructure (e.g.
access roads, connections to utility lines, etc.), it appeared in 1997 that demand for



- iii -
industrial plots had virtually dried up as a result of the lack of private investment. This
triggered the cancellation of the component's undisbursed balance in the amount of about
US$3.3 million' representing 94 percent of the allocated resources. The civil unrest
experienced by Burundi and the ensuing economic deterioration led many donors to freeze
their support to the private sector development program.
10.   Under the technical assistance and training component, the project contributed to
capacity strengthening in the administration, the industry and the private sector. The
Sector Policy Coordination Unit relied on the services of consultants to prepare various
legal and regulatory texts that the Government passed under the project. Some important
laws were passed by the Government and enacted by the P'arliament: labor code (1993),
general conditions of the commercial code ( 1993), private and public company code
(1996), and law on the profession of notary-public (1996). However, since tlle
implementation regulations for these laws are still to be prepared, the laws hiave had no
actual impact on the business environment.
11.   As a consequence of the high turnover in the management of the TribuLlal of'
Commerce, the project's contribution to the strengthening of tlis institution remained
limited to a needs assessment, some training activities and the acquisition of computer
equipment. Computerization of the registry system and archives was not implemented, and
the capacity of the Tribunal remains weak (para. 25). With respect to the support to the
Ministry of Mining and Energy, the project provided technical assistance il the negotiation
of mining concession contracts in 1993 and 1995, although no mining activity was
subsequently engaged. The reform the mining and petroleum regulations and code did not
take place either during the project implementation period, because of delays from both
the Government to initiate the work early enough and the Bank to provide timely feedback
on the terms of reference (para. 27). Despite the difficult environment however, the
project contributed to upgrading know-how and institutional capacities in the financial
sector through short term consultant interventions and several training sessions organiized
by the PMU.
12    Overall, the project outcome is rated marginally unsatisfactory The good
pert'ormance of the project in its early years was eroded by the long-lasting political crisis.
the trade embargo between mid- 1996 and early 1999, and the lack of timely restrLcturling
of the project. While the Bank tried to meet the Borrower's needs by leaving the teclhnical
assistance component open in 1997 in order to support the economic recovery strategy,
the Government was unable to overcome its internal coordination problems. As a result,
little was achieved during the project extension period and its performance remllained
unsatisfactory until its closing. The sustainability of its results is unlikely.
About US$214,000 were disbursed under this component for consultant serviccs and cquipincnt.



- iv-
Summary Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Owing to the momentum of the reform program and dynamism which of the
private sector during the early years of the project, there were some achievements in the
implementation of the project's programs, particularly the line of credit and the legal and
regulatory reform. However, the prolonged crisis took a heavy toll on the private sector
and the Government's focus was no longer on the implementation of sector policies
which had been spelt out in 1992. In hindsight, the project implementation period was
intrinsically unfavorable to the achievement of satisfactory results, and the decision to
cancel the line of credit and the sites and services component should have been taken at
the time of the mid-term review in 1996. In addition, the Bank should have been clear on
the institutional arrangement that was needed to carry out the restructured project in
1997. This could have helped in the execution of the technical assistance component
which remained open.
14.   There is a large unfinished agenda in the area of business environment
improvement, particularly legal and regulatory reform, fiscal reform, and trade promotion
measures. The Government expressed, during the ICR mission, a renewed commitment to
pursue the effort. Although there is no private sector development operation considered in
the near future, the Bank has started to prepare a private sector assessment and a post-
conflict grant will be used to support the Government's etfort in the interim.
15.   The major lessons to be drawn from this project experience (para. 5 1-54) are the
following:
*   in the face of risk factors such us civil unrest, high political uncertainties, and
macroeconomic imbalances, private sector development activities need to be
redesigned to take the environment into account or else the activities are
unlikely to succeed;
*   monitorable and measurable performance indicators and a well defined
monitoring and evaluation system are critical for successful project
supervision and timely decision-making, particularly in a high risk
environment;
*   the public-private sector partnership cannot yield satisfactory results it'the
private sector is not given a central role in the process so that its needs can be
addressed,
*   finally, multiple implementation units for a project are an ingredient for its
failure, particularly when there are coordination problems at the Government
level.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2359-BI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    BACKGROUND
1.    At the time of the Private Sector Development (PSD) project formulation, Burundi
had been implementing its structural adjustment program for nearly five years. Substantial
progress were being made towards stabilizing the economy and laying the foundations for
its structural transformation. But Burundi still had to seek for ways of stimulating a strong
supply response. Some progress in improving the business climate and the efficiency of the
financial system had been achieved under the then ongoing Small-Scale Enterprise Project
(SSE/APEX, Credit 1889-BU) and the two first structural adjustment credits. However,
signals to the private sector remained mixed because of the slow progress made by the
Government of Burundi (GOB) in disengaging from the large public enterprise sector.
Therefore, a third structural adjustment credit (SAC 111) was approved with the aim of
privatizing most of the commercial and manufacturing public enterprises. In addition, an
Agribusiness project (Cr. 2429-BU) was put in place to accelerate the privatization of
public enterprises in the tea, cotton, and rice sectors, support diversification and marketing
of agriculture produce and promote the involvement of the private sector in agribusiness.
The PSD project would complement these operations and enable the private sector to play
a key role in realizing Burundi's export diversification and private sector-led growth.
2.    The project targeted the development of productive investments through a line of
credit, the provision of industrial infrastructure with an industrial zone, improvements in
business environment and in financial intermediation, and technical assistance in support of
private sector development.
3.    The project implementation period unfortunately coincided with a protracted
socio-political crisis with profound effects on the economy: the reform program derailed,
macroeconomic imbalances increased, the business environment deteriorated and private
investment declined dramatically. Nevertheless, the private sector continued to muddle
through and holds out the hope for a rapid recovery as the country begins to return to
normalcy.



2
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The private sector development project was designed to assist GOB in
implementing its adjustment and development program, characterized by a strong
commitment to put in place an enabling environment for private sector development. The
project objective was to create a more propitious and open business environment likely to
streamline rules of entry and operation for new and existing enterprises. Priorities included
the removal of institutional, legal and regulatory impediments to private enterprise
creation, the expansion of an industrial zone, and the provision of technical assistance
services including support to the mining sector. In addition, the credit aimed at promotingz
productive investments through the implementation of focused financial intermediation
and financial policy reforms.
5.    The project was designed to enhance supply response to structural adjustment
reforms through increased local and foreign private investment that would contribute to
attaining Burundi's export diversification and growth objectives. Rapid response by
private sector investors, encouraged by improved business conditions, would generate
employment opportunities. A policy package of institutional, legal and regulatory reforms
would be implemented. The Government strategy was reflected in two letters of
development policy, respectively for the private sector and the financial sector. The
project covered three components: investment component (APEX line of credit), sites and
services, and technical assistance and training.
6.    The line of credit component, in the amount of US$ Il million2 equivalent, aimed
at providing long-term resources, in foreign exchange, through eligible financial
intermediaries, to finance projects submitted by local and foreign private borrowers. These
investment projects, which would have to be economically, financially and environmentally
viable, would be in all productive sectors, with a particular emphasis on export-oriented
manufacturing, small-scale mining, and agro-industrial projects. The line of credit would
also finance the modernization of equipment, rehabilitation and restructuring of productive
firms. The continued pursuit of flexible exchange rate policies and timely implementation
of business environment policy policy reform measures would stimulate the demand for
efficient import-substituting and export-oriented projects.
7.    The Borrower was to onlend the line of credit to the Central Bank (BRB) at the
prevailing market determined average yield of the auction market for three-month
treasury certificates, minus an annual administrative fee of at least 1.0 percent of the
outstanding subloans refinanced under the credit. The fee would cover the administration
cost of the line of credit by the Project Implementation Unit within the Central Bank. It
would be reviewed periodically to make sure it continues to cover the operating costs of
the PMU. The loan to the Central Bank would be for 15 years, including a grace period of
5 years. The Central Bank would onlend the funds to the qualified Participating Financial
2 This amount represented about 25 percent of the total estimated term credit demand of US$40-5(
million for the project commitment period of September 1992 - June 30, 1997.



3
Institutions (PFIs) at the Treasury Certificate average yield, with a flexible amortization
schedule reflecting the aggregate maturities of subloans extended by intermediaries.
Onlending interest rates charged by PFIs to sub-borrowers would be variable and market-
determined, while the exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
8.    The sites and services component, for an amount of US$3.5 million, was meant
to ease the constraints faced by most promoters in project implementation due to lack of
developed industrial plots in Bujumbura, the capital city. The component would consist of
a pilot investment program in sites and services, i.e. industrial plots, primary and
secondary access roads, sewage, connections to existing utilitv lines and
telecommunications network. The new site was to be developed in a 45 hectares area.
representing 1 1.3 percent of the total surface of the industrial zone. About 90 lots were to
be developed for industrial plants, commercial, artisanal, warehousing and other service
industries. This acti'vAty would help investors carry out their projects within a limited
amount of time and at an affordable cost. In order to ensure cost recovery, developed
plots would be sold by a "Special Marketing Commission", including representatives of
the private sector, on the basis of transparent criteria and fair rules. An auction system of
sales based on market principles would be considered in case of excess demand.
9.    Technical assistance, training and studies. The objective of this component- in
the amount of US$2.5 million- was to provide the Government and various institutions
involved in the project with the technical expertise and institutional support to implement,
and reap the benefits of policy reforms. This component covered the (i) entrepreneurship
development program, (ii) the legal assistance program, (iii) assistance for policy and
technical assistance coordination, (iv) assistance to the Ministry of Energy and Mining,
and (v) financial sector technical assistance program.
10.   The entrepreneurship development program would focus on the delivery of
advisory services at the enterprise level. The legal assistance program, covering areas of
legal environment, paralegal activities and operation of the Tribunal of Commerce, was to
help modernize the legal and regulatory framework governing business activities for
accelerated private sector development. The project would support (i) the preparation of
majors texts such as the commercial code, real estate regulations, environmental
protection laws, etc.; (ii) the creation, and the establishment of a regulatory framework of
new paralegal professions, such as private notaries-public, bailiffs, and other auxiliary legal
activities, and (iii) the equipment of the Tribunal of Commerce, the computerization of its
commercial registry system and archives, and the training of its staff
II.   In order to ensure good coordination of the then several ongoing and planned
technical assistance programs targeting enterprise and export development in Burundi, the
project would support "a small Policy Advisory and Coordinating Unit" to help the
Government implement a coherent and comprehensive private sector and export
promotion strategy. The project would also provide assistance to the Ministry of Energy
and Mining for advisory services in the negotiations of mining contracts, to reform its
mining regulations and code, and to improve the institutional capacity of the Directorate



4
General of Geology and Mining. Finally, the project would also contribute to financial
sector technical assistance aimed at upgrading know-how and institutional capacities of
the Central Bank (particularly supervision functions, monetary and credit policies), and to
improve the management of banking institutions.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
12.   The project implementation arrangements consisted of the Cellule de Gestion du
Projet (CGP), the Cellule de Coordination de Politiques (CCP), and various other
administrative services (Ministries of Public Works, Mining, and Justice) -which were
informally coordinated by the CCP--. This arrangement was held until the project
restructuring in August 1998 which reduced the scope of the project, and thus the number
of entities involved in the implementation. With the cancellation of the line of credit and
the industrial zone -which represented a total amount of SDR6.4 million-, the project was
limited to technical assistance and capacity building, in support of Government's
transitional economic and social strategy. In light of the Government's strategy to
emphasize on reconstruction, the oversight of the project was transferred from the
Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Planning and Reconstruction in early 1998. This
location of the project would allow its activities to address, inter alia, issues pertaining to
macroeconomic management so as to improve the business environment.
13.   The Central Bank and the Ministry of Public Works disappeared from the
retrofitted project's institutional setting. The CGP, which was transferred from the Central
Bank to the Ministry of Planning and Reconstruction, was given the mandate of
coordinating the implementation of the overall project, limited to training and capacity
building activities in support of the Government economic strategy. This broadened the
scope of responsibility of the CGP, which provided capacity building services to
enterprises and the financial sector between 1993-96. However, this role continued to be
shared with the CCP, which considered that its mandate had not been aflected at all by the
retrofitting
14.   Line of credit. During its two year period of activity ( 1994-96), the line of credit
helped to finance 34 projects, in all sectors of the economy, for a total amount of FBu
1.26 billion or SDR3 million (about US$4.5 million equivalent, representing about 40
percent of the resources). Given the prevailing circumstances in the country, this
performance was outstanding as repetitively emphasized by supervision missions.
15.   The table below shows that most of this long term financing, i.e. 75 percent of the
total credit and 82 percent of the applications, was channeled through development banks,
namely the "Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique" (BNDE) and the "Societ
Burundaise de Financement" (SBF). Although commercial banks agreed to function as
PFIs, they were more interested in financing strictly short term trade and less risky
activities as compared to long-term investment. They consider that they are not well
equipped to handle venture capital financing. This distribution pattern was already noticed



5
under the previous APEX project. The training and capacity building efforts deployed
under the PSD project did not affect the distribution. With respect to the repayment of
credits, the five participating financial institutions (PFIs)3 repay automatically, on a
quarterly basis, the amounts owed to the BRB. At their end however, they have to recover
arrears accumulated by the enterprises they financed. Amortization arrears represented
about I I percent of the total credit refinanced by the PSD project. As shown in the table
below, this aggregate ratio is affected by two bad loans made by the "Banque de Credit de
Bujumbura" (BCB) to two foreign investors who eventually left the country during the
crisis.
Table 1: Distribution of the uise of the line of credit by PFIs.
PFI                 Number   Financing        Percent  Default on    Percent
of clients  channeled             amortization  of
(FBU)                   (FBU)        financingy
BNDE                      20    482,017,170    38.23      1,941,936      0.40
SBF                         8   464,556,464    36.84    3,045,741        0.65
B.C.B.                      3    164,823,417    13.07  139,350,250      84.54
MBBB                        2    127,000,000    10.07            -          -
BANCOBU                     1    22,500,000      1.79             -
Total                     34  1,260,897,051   100.00  144,337,927       11.45
,Source: Troject MAanagenwut Unit tiI(Q'/)
16.   In view of the depressed economic situation whichi resulted in a reduced demand
for investment financing, the weakening of the financial position of the participating banks,
and the largely negative real interest rates (see table 2, para. 47), the uncommitted
resources of the line of credit at the time of the suspension of disbursements in October
1996, i.e. SDR4.5 million (US$6.2 million equivalent), was canceled a year later upon the
lifting of the suspension. There was a significant risk that, negative interest rates,
combined with distortions in the foreign exchange rate, would result in the financing of
non-viable investments, thus weakening the financial sector even further and misallocating
scare resources in the economy.
17.   Sites and services. The objective of making industrial plots available to private
investors was not achieved, as a result of cumulative delays and the adverse impact of the
crisis on investment demand. While this component was scheduled to be completed by
mid-1994, major works had not started by the 1996 project mid-term review which was
eventually followed by a one year suspension and subsequent cancellation of the
component.
3 The PFIs were: BNDE (25 projects), SBF (10 projects), BCB (2 projects), BANCOBU (2 projects). and
MBB (liquidated since 1995, 4 projects). The line of credit was the main source of long term resources for
the BNDE and the SBF.



6
18.   Severe delays on the component execution schedule were experienced from the
beginning of the project. The first site was lost (45 hectares) because the General
Directorate of Urban Planning in the Public Works Ministry allocated it to other use
without informing the Bank. When a second site (40 hectares) became available, there
were delays in launching the technical study for the establishment of the estate. Between
1994 and 1996, the Government financed preparatory studies and other civil works. About
US$1.5 million of budget resources were spent on building the basic infrastructure of the
estate consisting of access roads, power lines, etc. With the Bank's approval, invitation to
bid for the construction of the estate was issued, and bids were received and evaluated. An
updated timetable was discussed at the time of the mid-term review, and it was expected
that developed plots would be available by June 1997. Following the suspension of
disbursements, the Bank did not give the no objection to the selection of the winnling
bidder; thus no notification was issued, and the civil works did not start,
19.   Because of the bleak economic situation, the limited solvent demand for industrial
plots, and the fact that priorities for public investment were, as a matter of urgency, to be
now more targeted towards basic needs than developing an industrial zone, the Bank
decided to cancel the component after the lifting of the suspension of disbursements in
October 1997. Unlike several decision-makers inside the Government and the Chamber of
Commerce and industry who would have liked to proceed with this project activity, the
Bank considered that a list of potential demand for plots established in 1993-94 was
outdated in 1997 and did not reflect actual investment trends. In addition, establishing an
industrial zone while the country was still under trade embargo would result in very
expensive plots that would no longer attract potential investors.
20.   During the ICR mission in March 1999, the Directorate of Urban Development in
the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment indicated that, while the size of the demand
for industrial plots may have declined compared to the 1992 estimates, there are private
investors who are handicapped by the lack of developed industrial plots and are muddling
through with unsustainable solutions such using areas where good access roads or
adequate connections to utilities cannot be developed eventually.
21.    Technical assistance and training. Activities under this component focused on:
(a) modernization of the legal and regulatory framework in order to improve the business
environment; (b) institutional capacity building for the CCP and advisory services for the
Ministry of Energy and Mining, (c) provision of support to the Tribunal of Commerce;
and (d) training for the financial sector and technical support to private enterprises.
22.   In the area of business law modernization, substantial progress was made in the
preparation of laws, particularly between 1993-96. The Labor Code, the general
conditions of the commercial code and the law on public and private enterprises were
finalized, adopted by the Government, and enacted by the Parliament4. However, the
4These laws were adopted or enacted by the Parliament as follows: the labor code (adopted by thc
Government before the 1993 elections), the General Conditions of the Commerce Law (enacted by the



7
effort was not deployed all the way through to ensure that these enacted laws be
implemented and disseminated. The dissemination effort was not started until late 1997
when a draft business guide ("Guide d'entreprise") was finalized. A new
telecommunication law, based on the principle of competition in the sector, was enacted
in 1997. As a result, a telecommunication regulation agency, "Agence de reglementation
et de contr6le du secteur des telecommunications" (ARCT) was established by decree in
September 1997, and became operational in May 1998. In addition, revised legislation on
the free trade zone regime was prepared in 1995 but was not enacted. A law on the
privatization of the profession of notary-public was passed in July 1996 but is not yet
implemented. Other draft laws on paralegal professions exist but have not yet been
approved by the Government. Additional work on the insurance sector and on a
bankruptcy law was underway or considered at the end of the project.
23.    Other noteworthy actions towards the improvement of the business environment
were: (a) the reform the "drawback" system (a compensation mechanism between fiscal
obligations and Government debt was introduced, and the treatment time was reduced),
(b) the reduction of the tax rate on corporate profits from 45 percent to 40 percent5; and
(c) the study on the improvement of the free trade zone regime legislation. During the
period of the project, Burundi initiated and completed the process of joining MIGA", thus
becoming eligible for guarantees against non-commercial investment risks. The project
also encouraged Burundi to participate in the Cross-border initiative (CBI)7 which aims to
removing obstacles to free cross-border trade, investments, payments, and production
factors mobility among Eastern and Southern African countries.
24.    There was no progress in the areas of fiscal reform and foreign trade promotion.
Although a technical committee was appointed in 1993 to work on the fiscal reform,
including a simplification of the fiscal code which would integrate the incentives of the
investment code, it failed to function and to deliver any proposal. The reform should have
eliminated existing distortions in direct and indirect business taxes, while ensuring a
transition from the transaction tax to a value-added tax system. Direct tax rates on
companies' profits would be gradually reduced from 45 percent to 35 percent. As
mentioned above, only the corporate tax was brought down to 40 percent. With respect to
foreign trade promotion, the liberalization of the current account initially achieved under
Parliament in 1995). and the Companies Law, including privatization modalities (enacted by the
parliament in 1996).
5The incentive provided by a 5 percent profit tax reduction as of 1995 was de facto climinated by the
introduction of a five percent solidarity tax on the same base (corporate profits) in 1996. The Bank
suggested that the latter tax, which is meant to be temporary to reduce the hardslhip caused by thc
embargo. should be eliminated as soon as the sanctions are removed. The Government nceds also to
clarify deductible expenditures from the taxable profits (amortization, provisions, miscellancous costs).
deductibility of the transaction tax on financial costs, immobilization and spare parts, legislation on
dividend tax, as well as the air transport liberalization.
6 Burundi became the 136t member of MIGA in 1998.
' The CBI is co-sponsored by the World Bank, the IMF, the African Development Bank, and the
European Union.



8
the ESAF was reversed in November 1997 when the BRB instituted restrictions on
foreign exchange.
25.   Very little was achieved at the level of the Tribunal of Commerce. Due to a high
turnover in the management of the Tribunal and failure from the Ministry of Justice to
provide the Tribunal with adequate office facilities, envisaged support to this institution
was delayed. The Tribunal has not been able to gain the experience needed to speed up
effectively the settlement of conflicts. The training provided under the project was neither
strategically well focussed nor systematic to ensure meaningful capacity building as
initially expected. The computerization of the commerce registry and archives was not
completed. Only limited number of computer equipment was acquired in early 1999.
Reference books on legal issues could not be delivered before the credit closing date.
26.   In the milling sector, the project supported the negotiations of the nickel
exploration contracts with Rhino Tinto Zinc (RTZ) in 1993. Negotiations with BHP were
also carried out in 1995 but remained inconclusive. In 1998, a gentlemen's agreement led
to the cancellation of the RTZ contract. Negotiations of a new concession contract were
subsequently concluded in early 1999 between the Government and Andover Resources
International, without any Bank support. No action to promote small mining enterprises
was carried out during the project implementation period.
27.   With respect to the Mining and Petroleum Code, there were delays in engaging the
activity. During the first two years of the project, the Government delayed the preparation
of the terms of reference for the revision of the Code. On the Bank side, there was a lack
of continuity in the follow-up of this particular activity during the same period. Since
1996, the Bank delayed the extension of its no objection to the terms of reference and the
study was not even initiated before the closing of the credit. The project did not provide
further support to improve the institutional capacity of the Directorate General of Geology
and Mining as originally planned.
28.   The project promoted and supported continued dialogue with the Central Bank on
the issues of credit and monetary policies. As the liberalization process went on, new
banks were created. There was a risk of increased vulnerability of the sector if its
regulation had not been strengthened. The project helped put in place prudential
regulations'. This situation also required that the BRB enhance its supervision capacities.
The Bank of France provided assistance to the Central Bank in the supervision and
monitoring of banking institutions.
29.   The CGP provided to some enterprises consultant services that emphasized
trouble-shooting and problem solving, including advice on technical matters such as plant
lay out, selection of equipment, cost accounting and marketing. In addition, the PMU
organized several training sessions for the financial sector so as to improve and staff
capacity. As one of the PFIs went bankrupt and was eventually liquidated (the Meridien
s A law on bank and financial institutions regulation was passed in 1993. For further details, see the 1995
World Bank Note on the Burundi Financial Sector.



9
Bank BIAO Burundi), the Government requested an audit of the financial sector using
project resources. The audit was carried out by Coopers-Lybrand Maurice. However, its
finalization was delayed and the conclusions were not implemented. The second phase of
the audit, intended to cover the remainder of sector institutions, did not take place.
30.   A consultative committee of the public and private sectors was established in
1996 but failed to deliver on its promises because the mechanism: (i) remained heavily
dominated by the public sector, i.e. civil servants without familiarity with private sector
concerns; and (ii) became rather a routine set of meetings where the Government
attempted to sell its own decisions, instead of addressing the real issues of the private
sector. In addition, the crisis environment was not conducive to mature dialogue as the
focus was on short term and political issues.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31.   At the time of project preparation, a risk assessment was carried out. It was
already anticipated that the political transition could slow down the pace of revamping the
regulatory framework and the implementation of fiscal and labor policy reforms, which
would ultimately translate into lower private investment levels. However, it was believed
that the consensus built around the need for effective reform of the business environment
and the strong voice of a rapidly growing private sector would minimize this risk and
ensure the effective implementation of the project.
Factors within Covernment Control
32.   Sound economic policies: The economic environment started to deteriorate in the
early stage of project implementation. Since the outbreak in October 1993 of the socio-
political crisis, the focus on good economic management started to decline. Fiscal deficits
increased, Government arrears vis-a-vis the private sector accumulated, inflation soared,
and real interest rates became negative. Private investment declined and even some
businesses eventually closed down. The private sector was hard hit by the crisis from the
outset, but, due to political infighting particularly during the period covered by the "
Government Convention" (October 1994-July 1996), public policies were not designed in
such a way as to help the recovery. The situation was worsened by the economic sanctions
imposed by the country's neighbors on July 31, 1996 following the military-backed coup
which brought President Buyoya back to power. There was no attempt at fiscal
adjustment to try to keep the fiscal deficits under control and to bring inflation down. As
real interest rates remained negative, it became clear that the use of the line of credit
resources could not be continued because it would constitute an additional vulnerability
factor for the PFIs. In addition, the impact of the crisis on PFIs had made the eligibility of
some of them questionable; and the banking sector audit was to help update the list of
eligible PFIs if the line of credit had not been cancelled in the meantime.



10
33.   Swift implementation of project action plans: Although project implementation
had been quite timely at the beginning for some components, delays were experienced
with a few project components such as the regulatory framework modernization, the
improvement of the commerce tribunal's operations, sites and services, and technical
assistance. After the lifting of the disbursement suspension, it took about two months for
the Government to sign off on the project amendment package. Further, and the updated
action plan covering all the areas of retained activities was never completed.
34.   Adequate institutional arrangements for project implementation: Project
implementation was further handicapped by poor coordination at both the ministerial and
the technical levels. The CGP, which was defined from the outset as the Project
Management Unit, was not given the overall coordination responsibility. The CCP instead,
owing to the fact that it controlled the special account for all activities except those
carried out by the CGP, positioned itself as their de facto coordinator. After the 1998
restructuring, the CGP was challenged in its coordination role. Tension among various
entities involved in carrying out various activities impeded the project performance. T his
situation worsened at the time of project restructuring and delayed any action that would
have allowed timely execution of the project. In hindsight, it appears that one ministry and
one management unit should have been given clear coordination role throughout the
project life so as to pull together all contributions to project implementation.
Factors outside Government Control
35.   The socio-political and economic crisis since October 1993: As the inflation
rose from 5 percent in 1992 to 26 percent in 1997 and the real interest rates became
negative, it became increasingly difficult to commit the resources of the line of credit in
profitable projects. Exports declined by 54 percent, falling from about US$108 million to
US$61 million in 1998. The free trade zone regime could no longer attract new
investments. The justification for an industrial zone ceased to exist as private investment
dried up.
36.   Project complexity: By covering a wide range of components such as regulatory
and financial sector reforms as well as a line of credit to support private sector
investments, including a pilot investment in sites and services, and technical assistance, the
project was meant to represent a comprehensive approach to private sector development
which was judged necessary for a successful promotion of the sector activities. Project
complexity was flagged at the time of the project design, but it was believed that such an
approach was needed to provide adequate support to a growing private sector. Given the
Burundi context in 1992 and the skills endowment at the time, this project was not really
complex. However, the situation changed with the crisis; and complexity started becoming
obvious as key interlocutors rotated and caused the implementation of the project to drag.
37.   The overlap between the APEX line of credit and the PSD project: The project
was approved at a time when the previous APEX line of credit, which was still active, was



11
being committed at a faster pace than before, and was expected to be exhausted by
effectiveness of the new project. The credit line component was designed in light of the
existing APEX operation. It therefore benefited from design improvements and
significantly better business environment -which was also supported by the proposed
operation--. The line of credit was to be made available at effectiveness. However, the line
of credit did not start being committed until about 18 months after effectiveness: the first
commitments started in 1994, when the previous APEX line of credit was completely
disbursed. All in all, the line of credit was active for only two years because the Credit was
suspended in October 1996 and the line of credit was subsequently cancelled at the time of
the lifting of the suspension in February 1998 as real interest rates remained negative.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38.   Sustainability of project results is unlikely. The projects financed under the line of
credit had a good start but could not develop as anticipated because of the impact of the
crisis. Following the lifting of the embargo in January 1999, the country's prospects have
improved. However, Burundi needs resumption of external assistance in order to
dismantle the restrictions on foreign exchange, a step which would contribute to the
improvement of the business environment.
39.   With respect to technical assistance and institutional strengthening, project
achievements are unlikely to be sustained because most of the work was carried out by
implementation units and consultants without much involvement of Ministries staff In
terms of business environment, the reduction in the corporate tax rate (from 45 percent to
40 percent) was a good signal to the private sector. But, it could not suffice to spur the
development of the sector in an environment where the demand contracted continuously.
In addition, the Government instituted a 5 percent solidarity tax in 1996, thus restoring the
original tax burden level. The Government has claimed that this is a temporary measure,
but has not set the date by which it would be eliminated.
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
40.   The Bank's overall performance is marginally satisfactory. While the identification,
preparation, and appraisal were globally effective, supervision was unsatisfactory,
particularly starting at the time of the mid-term review. Although all the project activities
retained for implementation were needed under the prevailing circumstances and that
lessons drawn from the implementation of previous projects were taken into account, the
Bank failed to spell out clear monitorable and measurable performance indicators for the
project. The project was supervised 8 times between approval in April 1992 and its
closing in March 1998, which was not enough to facilitate imp!ementation progress for
this kind of project and the environment under which it operated. Given the country
circumstances at the time of the mid-term review in March 1996, the Bank should have
taken the opportunity to restructure the project.



12
41.   Within months after the mid-term review however, the Bank decided to suspend
disbursements to Burundi on the grounds of country conditions. The lifting of the
suspension in October 1997 was simultaneous with restructuring of the project, during
which two of the three components were canceled and the oversight of the project
transferred to the Ministry of Planning and Reconstruction. The project, from there on,
only consisted of training and technical assistance for implementing reforms and actions
which were necessary to improve policies in support of private sector activity. These
actions would also help the Government implement an economic recovery strategy, which
was unveiled to the Bank and the IMF during the June 1997 Article IV Consultations. The
limited project scope was nevertheless left with two implementation agencies, and there
was a high resistance to the new responsibility given to the MOPR. This caused delays in
the execution of the work program, and yet the Bank still extended the closilg date of the
project.
42.   In view of the dismal results achieved during the first year extension of the closing,
date, the Bank resisted Government's request for a second extension of the closing date
in October 1998 and decided to close the credit on December 31, 1998 leaving a small
amount needed for the final audit to be completed by the end March 1999, and the
preparation of the Government's contribution to the ICR.
G.    BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
43.   The Borrower's overall performance is unsatisfactory. At the time of
identification, preparation and appraisal, the Government carried out satisfactory work
which was not sustained during the implementation phase. The commitment of the early
years were exemplified by the Government's preparation of comprehensive letters of
sector policy for both the private and the financial sectors. However, implementation was
faced with difficulties very early on in some areas such as the industrial zone component,
and fiscal reform and trade promotion policies which dragged.
44.   The Borrower complied with legal covenants that were set for Credit effectiveness
without delay. The covenant related to the adoption by the Government of a decree
authorizing private paralegal professions, which was due as early as October 1993, was
not complied with. The Government ensured, however, timely completion of project
audits in spite of the difficult environment.
45.   In the areas of legal and regulatory reform and export promotion, the etfort
supported by the project and USAID could not have an impact on the private sector since
laws enacted by the Parliament were not followed through with preparation by
Government of implementing instruments. Despite the existence of a proposal made for
the improvement of the free trade zone regime, no action has taken place yet to finalize
the revised law. In addition, coordination problems among ministries involved in the
project and turf battles among implementation units inhibited project implementation
progress.



13
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46.   Since most of the project objectives were not met, the overall outcome is
marginally unsatisfactory. However, some benefit came out of this project on several
accounts: (i) the line of credit allowed the financing of 32 enterprises; (ii) progress was
made in the area of legal and regulatory framework through the preparation and the
passing of major legal texts, including the commercial code; and (iii) several institutions
involved in private sector development, particularly banks and financial institutions,
benefited from training and capacity building activities financed through the project.
47.   The amount of work initiated under the various project components was
substantial. However, most of it was not implemented such as to foster the development
of the private sector as expected. The crisis that started in the early stage of project
implementation did not allow the business environment to improve, nor the private sector
to develop. As shown in the table below, macro-economic imbalances, including
accumulation of arrears vis-a-vis the private sector increased during the project
implementation period, and private investment did not take place as expected because of
the high risk and uncertainties.



14
Table 2: Key macroeconomic indicators
(in US$ millions, unless otherwise specified)
1992     1993       1994     1995       1996     1997    1998
GDP           1,085.9   1,072.5    891.3      860.1    900.4   957.1    975.4
(nominal)                              _
Real GDP          2.7      -5.8      -3.7      -7.3      -8.4      0.4      4.5
growth rate          I_                                                         I
Exports          77.4      72.9      80.7     112.5      40.1    87.3      49.3
(f.o.b)                                             .
Imports         181.8     172.0    172.6      175.6    M0(.      97.9    102.6
(f.o.b)      _
Overall         -11.5     -12.8      -6.7      -8.5    -12.4    -8.5       -6.9
fiscal deficit
(% GDP)
Dircct            0.6       0.3      -0.1       1.4       (.0      0.0      0.
investment
Gross           178.5     171.6    213.9      215.3    144.7   117.3    108.2
official
reserves                               .
Inflation         4.5       9.7      14.9      19.4      26.2    31.1      17.0
Rediscount       11.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0    10.0(     l0.
rate (long
term loans)
Exchange        208.3     242.8    252.7      249.8    302.8   352.4    435.2
rate
(FBu/US$)                          .
48.   As reflected in the above table, the supply response to structural adjustment and
other policy measures which was expected to be fostered by the project could not
materialize during the project implementation period. Nevertheless, the project's line of
credit financed 32 enterprises, for a total amount of FBu 1.4 billion, or 40 percent of the
credit resources between 1994 and 1996. These enterprises created about 3 10 new jobs.
These jobs cannot be sustained unless there is a settlement to the crisis and a resumption
of external assistance to provide much needed foreign exchange and to revitalize the
contracted demand. The very limited export diversification in the early stage of the
project, with fruits and horticultural products coming on stream, did not last long as the
insecurity disrupted productive activity. As the socio-economic situation deteriorated,
these new activities declined or were simply abandoned.



15
I.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
49.   The 1995 CAS had planned for a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit as a follow
up to the project. However, the country situation has changed dramatically in the
meantime, and the lending program could not be implemented as originally planned for.
Pending the preparation of a new CAS, an Interim Strategy to guide Bank actions over the
next 24 months is being finalized. A PSD project is only contemplated during the outer
Interim Strategy period (i.e. FY02). In the meantime therefore, resources are being sought
from the Japanese Post-Conflict Fund to help the Government implement activities that
could not be carried out before the closing of the project. However, in order to restore
normalcy under which a new private sector development project could be implemented,
the Government would need to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and to think about an
innovative strategy for private sector revitalization as an engine for economic recovery
and sustainable growth.
50.   As for the new operation being considered in the future, it would be preferable that
it be focused on addressing the constraints that have emerged in the current business
environment. The macroeconomic fundamentals would need to be better so as to allow
actions at the private sector level to yield any meaningful result. A fresh look at the
situation of the financial sector would be required before engaging in any new line of
credit.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
51.   In an environment where political uncertainties persist over a long period of time
leading to instability of the macroeconomic framework, private sector development
operations should be undertaken with extended caution if they are to succeed. A line of
credit should not be maintained in an environment with negative real interest rates and
where fiscal discipline is unlikely to be enforced in order to combat inflation. In addition,
the disconnect between the bureaucratic process of producing draft texts for the legal and
regulatory reform and the actual implementation of the reform tend to increase.
52.   In order for project supervision to yield good results and to serve as a basis for
timely decision-making, particularly in a situation fraught with high risk factors, clear and
monitorable indicators, as well as a monitoring and evaluation system, are critical. A clear
exit strategy would need to be developed. This would have allowed the mid-term review
to make decisions on project restructuring, and for subsequent supervision missions to
decide on the usefulness of maintaining the operation open beyond its original closing
date.



16
53.   The development of public-private sector partnership mechanism is not likely to
yield satisfactory results if it is dominated by civil servants who have little familiarity with
the real needs of the private sector. In addition, it cannot work properly if its agenda is not
substantive enough to address the real problems of the private sector.
54.   In order to avoid risks of coordination problems, a project should have only one
unit in charge of the overall management, and there should be a clear definition of roles for
every institution involved in the implementation process. The quality of institutional
arrangements for project implementation is indeed essential for its success. In the case of
this project, the lack of clarity in roles and even project priorities caused the project to get
trapped in institutional problems, which affected its performance in an already difficult
environment.



17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of            Substantial    Partial     Negligible   Not appDlicable
Obiectives                    (77 )1)
Macro Policies                .
Sector Policies               ;
Financial Objectives          .
Institutional Development     :
Physical Objectives           .
Poverty Reduction             O                                         El
Gender Issues                 O
Other Social Objectives       O0
Environmental Objectives      F]                                        0
Public Sector Management      I            0
Private Sector                LI           0
Development
Other (specify)                             i
B. Proiect Sustainability     Likely               Unlikely             Uncertain
.________________  (/)                   (/)                  (/)
O]                  0.



18
Highly
C. Bank Performance               satisfactoy            Satisfacto                 Deficient
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(/)                    (vi)                     (v')
Identification                     :E
Preparation Assistance             :
Appraisal                           :
Supervision                       :
Highly
D. Borrower Performance           satisfactory           Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                    (/)                      (/)
Preparation                                               E
Implementation                                                                     0
Covenant Compliance                                       0
Highly                       Marginally         Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
________OK(1)  (1)             (/)              (/)
.. .. ; z 



19
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Loan/credit title       Purpose                    Year of            Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Industrial       Development of industrial         1977        Closed on
Investment: US$3.7   investment through the National              12/3 1/1983 )
million equivalent   Development Bank (BNDE)                      (Marginally
(Cr. 73 1 -BU)                                                    satisfactory)
2. Local Construction  Brick-making promotion through  1982       Closed on
Industry Pilot      the financing of two limekilns,               3/3 1/1987
Project: US$5.2     technical and managerial assistance             .s.al
million equivalent   to construction enterprises, and the         (Unsatisfactory)
(Cr. 120 - BU) Ministry of Public Works, Energy,
(Cr. 1230 - BU)      and Mining                      _      _
2. Small Enterprise    Support the development of small   1988    Closed on
APEX Project:        scale enterprises by providing term          12/3 1/1994
US$8.0 million      financial resources and TA, help              (Marginally
equivalent          improve efficiency of the financial           Unsatisfactory)
(Cr. 1889-BU)       sector and the SSE policy
(Cr. 1 889-BU)       framework, generate new
employment opportunities.
3. Agribusiness      Improvement of viability of agro-    1992    Closed (three
Promotion Project:   industries, diversification of               years ahead of
US$3.1 million       production and marketing of                  schedule) on
equivalent           agriculture produce (including               6/30/1996
(Cr. 2429 - BU)      exports), and promotion of                   (Highly
involvement of private sector in             unsatisfactory)
agribusiness.
4. Third Structural    Support the reform of state-owned   1992   Closed on June
Adjustment Credit:    enterprises and the reform of the           30, 1995. Second
US$30.0 million      budget (expenditure composition,            tranche was
equivalent.          public investment programming,               cancelled.
(Cr. 2376 - BU)      and sectoral medium term                     (Unsatisfactory)
expenditure programs).
Following operations
None.



20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                             October 24, 1990   October 24, 1990
Preparation                                March I"s, 1991    March 1", 1991
Appraisal                                  June 18, 1991     June 18, 1991
Negotiations                               March 16, 1992     March 16, 1992
Letter of Development Policy               March 16, 1992     April 15, 1992
Board Presentation                         April 30, 1992     April 30, 1992
Signing                                    June 22, 1992     June22, 1992
Effectiveness                              August 31, 1992    February 26, 1993
Project Completion                         June 30, 1997      March 31, 1999
Credit Closing                             December 31,       March 31, 1999
1997
Soure : Project files.
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(UJSS thotusanidv)
FY93    FY94    FY95        FY96     FY97      FY98      FY99
Appraisal     1,000.0  6,800.0  10,500.0  13,000.0  15,500.0  17,000.0  -
Estimate
Actual        129.6    1,084.3  2,693.6   5,214.7   6,760     6,930.2   7,362.0
Actual as%    13.0     16.0    25.0       40.1      43.6      40.7      43.3
of Estimate
Date of Final  May
Disbursement 28,
1999
Source: Bank project reporting system.



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
[The project did not include specific performance indicators for implementation.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
| The project did not include specific indicators for project operation.



22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined               Status    Impact of Study
1. "Impact de la crise   Not foreseen at appraisal. The   Completed  Most of the study
et strategie de relance  study aimed at devising     (1995)         recommendations
du secteur prive"     strategies for private sector                were implemented
revitalization in the aftermath
of the 1993 political crisis.
2. Free trade zone    Not foreseen at appraisal.    Completed       Revised law not yet
(FTZ) regime          lImprovement of the law        (1995)        enacted.
legislation           governing the free trade zone
improvement           regime and its application
instruments. This would
particularly clarify the
eligibility of minerals, and
provide an improved FTZ law.
3. Diagnostic study    Not foreseen at appraisal. Take  Completed   Reinforced bank
(audit) of banks and   stock of the Banking sector  (1998)         supervision.
financial institutions    vulnerability to the crisis after
(Bancobu, BCB,        one of the commercial banks
BBCI, SBF)            (and a PFI), Meridien Bank,
underwent a bankruptcy and a
subsequent liquidation.
4. Sites and services   Development of lands for     Completed     Not used as the sites
(Industrial zone)    industrial purposes, with      (1996)         and services
feasibility study     connector roads, sewers, and                 component was
industrial zone management                   canceled in 1997.
arrangements.
5. Computerization of Eliminate regulatory          Not done.      N/A.
the commercial        requirements while ensuring
registry             that various institutions key
data required for their day to
day use.
Source: Project files and ICR mission.



23
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ thousands) Actual/Latest Estimate(US$
thousands)
Local      Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign    Total
Item           Costs        Costs                    Costs      Costs
1. Subprojects  8,100        14,000      22,100       300       4,195.5   4,495.5
2. Sites &        900        3,000        3,900       1,500      293.2      1,7931.2
Services
3. Technical      825        3,465        4,290       700        3,353. 3   4,05 3.3
Assistance
and Training
TOTAL          9,625       20,465       30,290       2,500      7842,0    10,342.0
Source: Bank project reporting svstem and staiT estimates.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local     Foreign       Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Source           Costs       Costs                    Costs      Costs
IDA                          17,000       17,000      -          7,362.0   7,362.0
Other External  -             1,190        1,190      -          480.0      480.0
Sources9
Domestic         12,100      -            12,100      2,500"'    -          2,500.0
Contribution
TOTAL           12,100      18,190      30,290       2,500     7,842.0   10,342.0
Source: Bank project reporting system anid staff estimates.
9 Parallel financing by USAID through its "Burundi Enterprise Support and Training (BEST) Projcct".
'0 The largest share of this amount is the US$1.5 million cost incurrcd by thc Government for the sites
and services component.



24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis was carried out for the credit component during project
preparation. For the sites and services component, cost recovery would have been applied
if the activity had been implemented.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section  Covenant  Present  Original             Description of             Comments
typc       status    fulfillment   covenant
date
DCA          3.01     03          C          FltVectiveriess  (iovernmenit ot lruntndi   Comiplied with betbre
is to sign i subsidiary   credit effectiveness.
aigreemiienit with the
Centtr a3aBnk (13R13) to
retrocede the lftiancilng
available uLider thle line
of credit componienit
]CA          3.01     03          C          FlIectiveniess 13R13 is to sign          Cotiiplied wvith on time.
participatorv ugreemniielts
with participating
Iinancial intermediaries
to refiniance loains
3 .04    13          NC        October 1993 (Governiment ofLlurLtmdi   D)ecree has becni
is to adopt a nrew decree   prepared but not vet
authorizing private       adopted bv the
paralegal protcssionis    Government
DCA          4 01     (I          C          IEver\ year    Teli proJcct is to be     All aidits were
atidited everv v'ear bv   completed.
accotuntants satislactory
to ll)A
Covenant types: 01 =Accounts/audits; 03  Flow and utilizatioIn of project fiands: 13  Otther.
Present status: C = Complied with; NC = Not complied with.
Source: Project files and Bank project reporting system.
TABLE11: COMPLIANCEWITH OPERATIONAL MANUALSTATEMENTS
Not applicable to this project



25
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS"
Stage of                               Planned          Actual
Project Cycle
Week      US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal              N/A      N/A      36.0     106. 1
Appraisal-Board                       N/A      N/A      60. 1    172.8
Negotiations through Board Approval  N/A       N/A      4. 1     11.5
Supervision                           125.0   120.4    113.5   271 1
Completion                            10.5    30.4      14.5    35 1
TOTAL                                1355    1308    228.2   596.6
Source: Bank project reporting svstem and staff estiinates.
"The system shows planned staff weeks and amounts only since FY96.



26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Ratinmg
Number             Skills    Implem    De elopm
Stage of    Month/        of      Days    Reprcs   entation   cnt             TFpes of
Project Cycle   Ycar      Persons   in        ented     Status     Objectives   Probl)ems
Field
Througli         March      4          21       SO; BS;  N/A         N/A          None
Appraisal        1991                           IE: 00
Appraisal       June        7          21       SOO;    N/A          N/A          None
throughi Board    1991-                         BS: IE:
Approval         April                          00
1992
Supervision'2 I   January    1         7        SOO       2          2            Delay in mceting
1993                                                            cffcctivcncss
conditions: Delav in
launching the sludv
on sites and
services.
Supervision 2    October    4           11      POO.    2            2            Free trade zone
1993                           IE, L.                            regime faced with
FA                               imiplenentation
diffictitties.
.Supervision 3    April      I          8        FA        S          S            Declininig private
1994                                                            investmenits because
of the crisis. anid
comiitiiients still
ongoinig under the
APEX credit.
Supervision 4    Septembe   1          9        FA        S          S            Need to set up a
r 1994                                                           iioniitorinig systein
of cnterprises
financed under the
credit.
Supervision 5    February    1         8        FA        U          U            Delav in the fiscal
1995                                                            reformil: lack of
progress for the
Tribunail of
Commercc.
12 Until end 1994, this PSD project was supervised together with the APEX project, which was still active.
The number of days allocated to the supervision of this project is therefore prorated (estimates).



27
Supervision 6      April         I           12        FA          U           U              Negative real
1996                                                                      initerest rates: littile
.Mid-                                                                  progress in the
(Mid-                                                                      iiodernii.ationi of
tern                                                                      the legal and
Review)                                                                    regulatory
frainework: 11o
progress unider the
Tribunal of
Comiiiercc.
Supervision 7      August        2           7         SOO. E    U             U              Need to cancel the
1997                                                                      linie of credit and
the sites anid
services
colmlpoIICllts.
Supervision 8      April         313         3         SOO.        U           U              The transfer of
1998                                E. 00                                 project oversight to
thc Ministn of'
Planning following
thle liflinig of the
suspension and thc
rcstructurinig has
not been wcil
received by many
actors and has
caused tensionis
am111onig tile to
projcct
implementatlion
uniits. No progress
miadc since 6
imontlis.
Completion         March/        2           9         E: 00       U           U              Overall poor project
April                                                                      performnalce.
1999
POO: Principal Operations Officer; SOO: Senior Operations Oflicer: 00: Operations Olliccr: 13S: 13anking Sector Specialist: IE:
Industrial Economist; E: Economist; L: asyer. FA: Financial Analyst
Source: Bank project reporting system and staff estimates.
13 Because of the lack of commercial flights to Burundi, the mission met wvith the national project
manager in Nairobi.



I
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
Aide-memoire de la Mission de supervision et de preparation du rapport
d'achevement du Proiet de Developpement du Secteur Prive - PSD
(Cr. 2359 BU)
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale a visite le Burundi du 23 mars au 2 avril 1998
pour proceder A la derniere supervision du projet PSD et preparer son rapport
d'achevement. La mission etait composee par MM. Fran,ois Nankobogo, Economiste,
Chef de mission et Prosper Nindorera, charge des operations a la Mission residente de la
Banque mondiale. La mission a travaille conjointement avec une autre mission de la
Banque Mondiale conduite par M. Jean Michel Happi et comprenant aussi MM. Eugene
Nyambal et Roy Pepper qui procede a une evaluation de la situation actuelle du secteur
prive au Burundi.
2.    La mission tient A remercier Monsieur le Ministre des Finances, Monsieur le
Ministre de la Planification du Developpement et de la Reconstruction, les differents
responsables des composantes du projet PSD, les divers cadres de l'administration ainsi
que les representants du secteur prive pour leur grande disponibilite et leur precieuse
collaboration.
I. Dernieres operations du Proiet
3.    La mission a revu 1'etat d'execution des dernieres activites du projet PSD qui
avaient fait l'objet de report de la date de cl6ture pour le premier trimestre 1999. Ces
activites incluent l'audit des comptes A fin 1998, la finalisation de l'audit des banques,
I'acquisition de materiel informatique et documentaire, ainsi que la preparation de la
contribution gouvernementale au rapport d'achevement du projet.
4.    L'audit des comptes 1998 a ete realise dans les deais. Le rapport provisoire
d'audit est attendu au cours des premiers jours du mois d'avril et les unites de projet ont
pris l'engagement de faire ce qui est en leur pouvoir pour que le rapport final soit pret et
partage avec la Banque mondiale avant la fin du mois d'avril 1999. Pour ce qui est des
dernieres operations comptables realisees par les unites de projet, les comptes devront etre
etablis par les unites de projet pour etre soumis A une revue des d6penses qui sera realis6e
par la Mission residente au cours de la premiere semaine du mois de mai 1999. II a et
rappele que la fin de la periode de grace pour la soumission A l'IDA des dernieres
demandes de paiement a ete fixee au 30 avril 1999. Le rapport final d'audit des banques a
ete remise A la mission. Le materiel informatique pour le tribunal de commerce et la cellule



2
de coordination des politiques a pu etre acquis dans les delais. Par contre, un retard a ete
enregistre dans la livraison du materiel documentaire (ouvrages juridiques) pour le
Tribunal de commerce et ne pourra donc pas etre acquis sur les ressources du projet.
5.     S'agissant de la pr6paration de la contribution gouvernementale au rapport
d'achevement, les unites de projet, respectivement la Cellule de Gestion du Projet (CGP)
et la Cellule de Coordination de Politiques (CCP), ont indique avoir travaille sur les
aspects du projet sous leur responsabilite. Toutefois, les modalites pratiques pour mettre
ensemble ces contributions pour rediger une synthese doivent encore etre prises. Le
Ministre de la Planification du developpement et de la Reconstruction, qui a la tutelle du
projet, a indique a la mission qu'il suivrait de pret cette question pour s'assurer que la
contribution du gouvernement au rapport d'achevement parvienne a l'IDA dans les delais.
II. Evaluation des Realisations du Proiet
ILI. Composante CGP: Ligne de credit et assistance technique aux entreprises.
6.     Cette composante avait pour activite la gestion de la ligne de credit (reliquat
APEX et ressources PSD) et I'administration de services d'assistance technique a travers
la formation et l'assistance aux entreprises financees.
7.    Les ressources de la ligne de credit du projet PSD s'e1evaient a $1 1 millions.
Celles-ci etaient des ressources longues ( 1 5 ans dont 5 ans de grace) pretees aux
entreprises par les institutions financieres participantes a un taux inferieur a celui du
marche du fait de b6neficier elles-memes d'un refinancement de la Banque centrale au taux
des certificats du tresor a 3 mois.
8.    L'activite de la ligne de credit a consiste d'abord a engager, en 1993 et 1994, les
ressources qui restaient sur le projet APEX; et un montant de FBu 1.39 milliards a et
refinance. La ligne de credit PSD a ete engagee entre 1994 et 1995 pour un montant total
de FBu 1.26 milliards --representant 40% des ressources de la ligne de credit-- qui ont
finance 32 entreprises reparties dans divers secteurs de l'economie, avec environ 3 10
emplois nouveaux associes. Cinq Institutions Financieres Participantes (IFP) -- deux
banques de developpement (la BNDE, la SBF) et trois banques commerciales (la BCB, la
BANCOBU, et la MBB)-- ont et partie prenante dans l'utilisation des ressources de la
ligne de credit du projet PSD. La participation des deux banques de developpement
represente 82.3% de 1'ensemble des ressources engagees, tandis que la BCB, la MBB et la
Bancobu n'ont respectivement vehicule que 8.8%, 5.9% et 3.% des ressources engagees.
En raison des taux d'interet reels negatifs en 1996 et en 1997, la d6cision d'annuler le
reliquat de la ligne de credit a prise a fin 1997, au moment de la reactivation du credit
apres une annee de suspension des decaissements.
9.     Bien que la crise ait limite l'utilisation de la ligne de credit du fait de la reduction
de la demande d'investissement, les IFP ont confirme l'importance primordiale de
disposer de ressources longues pour financer 1'economie dans un environnement out les



3
ressources des banques sont A court terme. Elles ont mis en suggere que les aspects
meriteraient ci-dessous solent cependant d'etre ameliores a l'avenir:
* les procedures de l'IDA sont difficiles a maitriser et prennent trop de temps,
*  le risque ne repose que sur l'IFP qui finance un investissement dans la mesure ou la
Banque centrale leur d6bite automatiquement les echeances arrivant A terme sans tenir
compte des difficultes que l'entreprise financee eprouve. Les IFP propose qu'A l'avenir
leurs obligations de remboursement soient mises en relation avec leurs possibilites de
recouvrement des creances aupres des entreprises,
* la necessite de trouver une autre base de determination du taux de refinancement, qui
est juge 6leve et non neutre;
I la promotion de la ligne de credit aurait pu etre plus active.
10.   Au niveau des actions de formation et d'assistance technique, les beneficiaires des
actions de formation organisees par la CGP, A l'interieur comme A l'exterieur du pays, ont
apprecie l'utilite de l'action menee dans le cadre du projet. Les banques en particulier
souhaitent une action de formation suivie et systematique de leurs employes afin de mieux
evaluer les projets d'investissement et en assurer le suivi. Quelques entreprises ont
beneficie d'une assistance technique (tel qu'indique par les entreprises visitees lors de la
mission) qui a fourni une formation en entreprise des employes.
11.2. Composante Coordination des Politiques (CCP).
11.   La cellule de coordination des politiques avait pour mission de suivre les activites
relatives au cadre juridique et reglementaire, a la promotion des echanges, a la politique
tarifaire et fiscale et au climat d'investissement. Les realisations en matiere d'amelioration
du cadre juridique et reglementaire ont consiste en preparation de diff6rentes textes de loi
dont les principaux sont: le code du travail (promulgue en juillet 1993), les dispositions
generales du code de commerce (promulgue en juillet 1993), le code de soci6tes publiques
et privees (promulgue en mars 1996) ainsi que la loi portant organisation et
fonctionnement du notariat ainsi que statut des notaires (juillet 1996). Des projets de loi
existent aussi sur l'organisation de la profession de geometre et sur la privatisation de la
profession d'huissier. Les differentes lois promulguees n'ont pas encore de texte
d'application. La mission a reitere la necessite de mettre en application les lois qui ont ete
dejA promulguees.
12.   En mati&re de promotion des echanges, les differentes mesures de liberalisation des
operations du compte courant et d'acces aux devises qui avaient ete prises en 1992 dans le
cadre du programme d'ajustement structurel ont ete annulees par le gouvernement en
novembre 1997. Les differents representants du secteur priv6 ont mis en exergue l'impact
negatif que cela produit sur leur activite. Toutefois, en 1996, le gouvernement a adopte
une reforme du mecanisme de remboursement du draw-back (loi de decembre 1995 et
ordonnance ministerielle de fevrier 1996).



4
13.   Dans le cadre du projet une refonte et integration du code des investissements dans
le code general des imp6ts avaient et envisagees mais n'ont pas eu lieu. Seul le delai de
reponse a une demande des avantages du code des investissements, limite A 45 jours, a fait
l'objet d'une disposition legale amendant le code de 1987. Le regime de zone franche a
fait l'objet de travaux d'amendement au niveau technique mais n'a pas encore ete valide.
En matiere de politiques tarifaire et fiscale, les reformes qui avaient et proposees au
debut du projet n'ont pas ete realis6es. Le secteur prive estime que le regime fiscal reste
une des principales entraves A son developpement.
14.   Enfin, la CCP a recemment finalise le guide d'entreprise et fait adopte la loi sur la
deductibilite des charges. Par contre, il n'existe pas d'indications allant dans le sens d'uLle
reforme fiscale d'ensemble ni de reprise du programme de reformes economiques
necessaires A la revitalisation du secteur prive et A la relance de l'investissement prive.
11.3. Tribunal de Commerce
15.   Les realisations du projet au niveau du tribunal de commerce sont rest6es tres
limitees. L'instabilite de l'administration centrale du Ministere de la Justice ainsi que du
personnel du tribunal de commerce n'a pas permis de mettre en oeuvre le programme
d'amelioration des operations du tribunal de commerce. Seules quelques actions de
formation des magistrats ainsi que l'acquisition recente du materiel informatique ont pu
etre realisees. La mission a exprime son regret que les actions qui auraient pu etre
conduites des le debut du projet meme sans le demenagement du tribunal de commerce
dans de nouveaux locaux n'aient pas et engagees A temps. Ceci pose un probleme de
credibilite de l'engagement A ameliorer les performances du tribunal de commerce dont le
rBle est important dans le fonctionnement du monde des affaires.
11.4. Zone Industrielle
16.   Le retard dans le demarrage des activites d'amenagement de la zone industrielle a
ete cause, au debut du projet, par l'affectation du terrain qui avait ete identifie A une autre
utilisation. Par la suite, le gouvernement a choisi un autre site sur lequel des voies
d'amenee ont ete amenagees. Le coat de la depense encourue est estimee A environ 1.5 de
dollars. Des etudes de viabilisation ont ete conduites, mais la composante a 6te annulee en
1997 avant que les travaux ne commencent. Cette decision a decoule du constat selon
lequel la demande d'investissement avait considerablement decline et de la necessite
d'affecter les ressources publiques a d'autres priorites nees de la crise. Toutefois, la
Direction generale de l'urbanisme a indique qu'il y a une reprise de demande de terrains
industriels et que les entrepreneurs se contentent provisoirement de viabilisation sommaire
A leurs frais.
11.5. Mines
17.   Le projet devait appuyer le gouvernement dans les negociations de conventions
minieres et la revision du code minier et petrolier de 1976. Un appui a ete donne sur les



5
ressources du projet pour les negociations avec RTZ et BHP. Par contre, le concours de
l'IDA n'a pas ete sollicite dans les recentes negociations avec Andover Resources
International qui vient de signer avec le gouvemement une convention miniere pour
1'exploration et 1'exploitation du nickel de Musongati. En ce qui concerne le code minier
et petrolier, le travail n'a jamais depasse le stade de termes de reference, mais le
gouvernement a deplore le manque de reponse de la Banque pour cette activite depuis
1995.
Conclusion
18.     La mission a constate que, dans l'ensemble, les performances du projet ne sont
pas satisfaisantes. L'enthousiasme du debut du projet n'a pas resiste aux effets de la crise
qui a commence en octobre 1993. En effet, 1'environnement socio-politique n'a pas ete
favorable a une poursuite continue des efforts d'amelioration de l'environnement des
affaires et de promotion des exportations ; et les desequilibres macro-economiques qui
s'en sont suivi ont meme provoque des retours en arriere-sur des reformes passees tel que
celles de liberalisation du compte courant. Malgre ces facteurs exogenes, aussi bien
1'emprunteur que la Banque mondiale n'ont pas reussi bien mener la mise en oeuvre du
projet, surtout a partir de la revue a mi-parcours de 1996. En somme, 1'essentiel de ce qui
a ete realise par le projet l'a ete au cours de ses premieres annees, jusqu'au debut de 1996.
Par contre, la periode consecutive a la reactivation du projet en octobre 1997, apres une
annee de suspension des deboursements, jusqu'a la date de cl6ture en mars 1999 n'a qu'un
bilan tres maigre, en raison d'inefficacites des structures chargees de mettre en oeuvre le
programme de relance du secteur prive.



APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU
PROJET D'APPUI
AU DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR PRIVE
(CR 2359-BU).
l~~~~~~



INTRODUCTION
Le Gouvermement du Burundi et I'Association Intcmationale de Dvcvloppcment (IDA) ont
conclu en Juin 1992 un accord do credit de developpemcnt portant sur l'appui au ddvcloppcmcnt du
secteur priv6.
Tel quo defini par l'accord de projct du credit 2359 BU J. projct a d&fini Ics objoctifs
principaux a atteindre a savoir:
(( 1. Contribuer au dcveloppement cconomiquc du Bunidi Cei fournissant unc aide
financi&re aux entreprises d'investissements. particulicremcnt celles qui utilisClnt plus dc ressources
locales et qui contribuent a la crcation d'cmplois A la dcccntralisation de l'activitc cconomique. a
la realisation des rccettes en deviscs ou a la substitution des importations.
2. Faciliter la crcation, 1'cxpansion ct la modcrnisation des entrepriscsª
Le projet, d'un montant dc 12.400.000 DTS comprenait plusicurs composantcs placces
sous diverses tutelles techniques:
(a)    Unc ligne de crcdit. d'un montant dc 7.572.000 DTS soit 6lpour-cent du crcdit.
etait geree par la C.G.P. sous la tutelle do la Banque do ia Rcpublique du Burmndi.
(b)    Un montant de 2.1 10.000 DTS, soit 17pour-cent du cr6dit. ctait destinc a financer
une operation de viabilisation d'une zone industricllc.
(c)    Une composante assistance technique et formation devait permettre la rcalisation
des actions suivantes:
(i)    Renforcement des capacitcs ct equipement du tribunal do commerce.
(ii)    Rcformrc t modernisation du droit des affaircs
(iii)    Un appui au Minist6rc des Mines.
La date de cl6ture prcvuc initialemcnt ctait fixce au 31 dccembre 1997. L'cxccution du
projet a commence au mois do janvier 1993.
Pour ce qui est de la partic A du Projet, le Gouvemement du Burundi et l'IDA so sont
convenus quo les fonds du projet APEX (5.700.000 DTS). dont los d&caissements avaicnt ctc
bloqu&sjusqu'en 1992. soicit cgalemnent gcres par la C.G.P. pour Ic financenient des
invcstisscments a travers Ic svstcmc bancaire. Ainsi cc montant s'ajoutait a celui do la ligne dc
credit du projet 2359 BU.
I.DEROULEMENT DE L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
POUR LA C.G.P. ET LA LIGNE DE CREDIT
A) AVANT LA SUSPENSION DES DECAISSEMENTS EN OCTOBRE 1996.
Le projet s'est deroule normalement du I er janvier 1993 au 10 octobrc 1996. Suite a
l'embargo decide par les pays voisins du Burundi au mois d'aoat 1996, 1'IDA a decide la
suspension des decaissements pour tous les projets au Burundi a partir du 10 octobre 1996.



2
Au mois d'aout 1997, une mission de supervision de l'IDA s'est rcndu au Burundi afin
d'analyser l'opportunite de la levee de la suspension des dccaissements sur Ic credit d'appui au
developpement du secteur priv. Etant donnc la detcrioration de 1'environncment macro-
economique pour les investissemcnts dont notammcnt une forte inflation rendant les taux d'intcrcts
reels negatifs et un taux de change surcvaluc. I'IDA a dcidc ['annulation dc la composante lhgnc
de credit du projet en Octobre 1997.
i) ENGAGEMENTS ETDECAISSEMENTS.
Durant la pcriode d'cxccution dc la composantc lignc dc credit plusIcurs opcrations ont pu
ctre financces comrnmc suit:
Etant donne un reliquat important du projet APEX. Ia C.G.P a d'abord comilmllcnc a
engager les fonds du projct APEX CR 1889 BU. dont la date dc cl6turc etait fixcc au 3 1 / 1 2/ 9Q4
Ces fonds ont pu ctrc totalcment engagcs au 31 Octobre 1 994. Lc taux de decaissemnent definitif fut
de 96,3 pour-cent a la fin du projct.
Les fonds de la ligne de crcdit du projct d'appui au d6voloppcenent dui scctcur privc (CR
2359 BU) furcnt engagds sculement a partir d'octobre 1994 a la fin du projet APEX. Etant donne
qu'il s'agissait de la composante principalc du nouvcau projet. le taux de dccaisscmcnt du crcdit
2359 BU au 30/9/1994 etait seulement de 4 pour-cent. Au momenit de la suspension des
ddcaissements, le taux de dcbourscmcnt de la ligne do crcdit 2359 BU fuit de 40.45pour-cont et sur
le projet entier de 37 pour-cent. Cc rcsultat ftit rcalisc uniqucment sur la pcriodc d'octobre 1994 a
octobre 1996.
Nonobstant donc l'embargo imposc au Burundi cn ao;it 1996 et la suspension des
d6caissements qui s'en est suivi en octobre 1996. Ia ligne de cr6dit aurait ctc utilisce totalement a la
date dc cl6ture pr6vue dans l'accord de crcdit do devcloppement 2359 BU soit au 31/12/1997. 43
op6rations ont ctc cngagccs sur la ligne do crcdit du projet d'appui au dcvc1oppcrncnt du scctcur
privc et dont 34 crcdits dccaisscs pour un montant total do 1 260 897 051 FBU soit 3 062 338.64
DTS.
ii) INSTITUTIONS FINAN(JERES PARTIC1PANTES.
Cinq banqucs ct institutions financicrcs (InstituLtions financicrcs participantcs IFP) ont
participc a la ligne do credit: La Banquc Commercialc du Burundi (BANCOBU); La Banquc do
Cr6dit de Bujumbura (BCB); La Banque Nationalc do Dcveloppement Econonlique (BNDE): La
Meridien BIAO Bank Burundi (MBBB). La Socictc Burundaisc de Financement (SBF).
Au mois de mai 1995,1a MBBB fut misc en liquidation suite a la faillite dc 1'6tablissemcnt.
Deux dossiers de la MBBB avait beneficic du refinancement do la nouvelle ligne do crcdit. Pour les
autres IFP, le taux de repartition de l'utilisation de la ligne do crcdit est la suivantc: BNDE: 58.8
pour-cent: SBF: 23,5 pour-cent, BCB: 8,8 pour-cent;  BANCOBU : 3.0 pour-ccnt
La BNDE avait maiitris6 les procedures d'utilisation dos lignes dc credit IDA dcpuis la
ligne de credit APEX. Par contre le faible taux d'utilisation des ressourccs de la ligne de cr6dit par
la BANCOBU s'explique par les difficultes qu'avaient les services techniques do cette institution
dans l'evaluation des dossiers des prets a long terme et l'idee qu'avaient les instances dirigeantes



3
d'une competition entre les ressources de la ligne de crcdit et celles proprcs a la banque bicn que
ces demieres etaient a court terme.
iii) EMPLOS C'REES ET SECTEURS D 'A C'TI VITES.
La ligne de crcdit a contribu6 a la crcation d'environ 310 nouvcaux cmplois
Tous Ies sectcurs d'activit6 economique ont c finances Ic primnairc Ic seconidaire et ic
tcrtiaire. On trouve des domaines aussi divers quc Ics suivants  L'1evage. les ccolcs. ls cliniques.
les tclecommunications, la transformation du bois. les h6tcls rcstaurants. la fabrication de cahicrs.
une minoterie confiscrie. la construction dc batimcnt commcrcial et administratif la construction dc
batcau de transport, les usincs dc the et do fabrication de tubes en PVC etc. (Voir tableau oCl
annexe dcs secteurs financcs sur Ic projet).
iv) SI TUA TION DES RECOUVREMENTS
Le projct a cte cxccutc durant UIIC pcriode de crisc profonde depuis Ic mois d'octobre I '93
et qui a cte aggrave par un cmbargo impose par les pays voisins cn aotit 1996. Cette conjolIcture a
eu impact ncgatif sur la r6gularit6 des remboursomcints do sous projcts cnvors Ics IFP.
Alors quo le ratio creances impaye&s/total des prcts varic entre dc 17.4 pour-coii et 52.4
pour-cent pour les banques auditccs cn 1997 ( Cfr. rapport gcncral du diagnostic du sectcur
financier burundais 1992-1997).cc ratio est de 11.45 pour-cenit et do 9,'13 pour-cent par rapport
respectivement au total des d6caissements sur la ligne do crcdit et des prcts totaux dccaisscs par Ics
IFP pour les dossiers refinanccs sur Ic projet d'appui au dcveloppement du secteur privc Cc
constat dcnote la justcsse des ctudes do rcntabilitc cffectu6cs avant Ic financcmont des dossiers
rnfinanccs et unc certaine rnsistancc des investissements financcs par rapport a ['cnscmble du
portcfouille des banques.
Lei montant recouvrn auprcs des IFP cnvers la lignc do crcdit ctait do 615 747 727 FBU au
31/ 12/1998 soit 48,8 pour-ccnt des dccaissements totaux. Lc svstric do rocouvrnmcit cntre lcs
IFP et la ligne do crcdit no ticnt pas compte du remboursement offectif du sous pro et auprcs do
I'IFP. Aussi les irrcgularitcs dc romboursemont auprcs do la ligne do credit n'iont tOUIch6 quo les
dossiers do l'ex MBBB  Le cornitc do liquidation de la MBBB est on train cependanit do rcgularisor
cettc situation
B) ANNULATION DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT ET
RESTRUCTURATION DU PROJET EN OCTOBRE 1997.
L'IDA a ddcidd en octobre 1997 I'annulation des fonds destincs a la partic A ct a la partic
B du projet. Elle a leve la suspension des ddcaisscmcnts sur la partic C du prolct.
Cette decision a eu comme consequence une reduction do plus do 82 pour-ccnt du montaint
disponible sur le crddit (passant de 7.804.790,58 DTS a 1.398.720.39 DTS).
Concernant les objectifs du projet, le Gouvemement et l'IDA se sont convenus d'une
reorientation du projet afin de faire face a la deterioration de 1'environnement dconomique peu
favorable aux investissements. 11 fut ddcidd de renforcer l'appui institutionnel en finan,ant les
actions d'appui a la mise en oeuvre de la strategie economique et sociale du Gouvernement sur la



4
periode 1997-1999. La matrice des actions a soutenir prevues par cette stratcgic comprcnait
notaniment.
Dans la logique de la r6orientation dcs objectifs du projct. Ics dcux parties sc sont
convenues de modifier les dispositions de gestion du projet en confiant au Ministcre de la
Planification du Developpement et de la Reconstruction la coordination ct la misc ell ocuvrc des
objectifs du projet. A cet cffct. les amendements a ['accord dc crcdit de dcvcloppcmcnt CR 23559
furent sign6s par l'IDA en janvier 1998 et par le Gouvenienmcit du Burmndi cn fcvricr 1998
Au vu des delais neccssaires a la realisation des objectifs souhaitcs et dc la pcriode
d'execution dc la strat6gio &conomique et sociale. Ic Gouvernemncrit a\ait demandc. par lettre du
Ministre des Finances a l'IDA du 27/11/97, unc prorogation de la datc de cl6ture du projct au
3 1(12/1999.
Par correspondance du 24/12/1997. I'IDA a acceptc de proroger la date de cl6ture duine
annee en laissant la possibilitc a une nouvellc extension aprcs examnci de la misc en ocuvre du plan
d'action. Des la signature des amendements fin fcvricr 1998. unc concertation ftit initicc par lc
Ministere des Finances afin d'arrcter un plan d'action global du projet.
Sur base dos propositions de chaque composante. une rcunion s'cst tenuc a Nairobi dcbut
avril 1998 pour analyser la pertinence des actions proposes Cei egard aux nouvclles oricntationis du
projet et a la periode d'exdcution prcvue.
Bion que sur lc plan techniquc les diff6rentes propositions d'un plan d'action aient ctc
disponible des la fin mars 1998, la procedure do misc Cln place d'un plan d'action global lie put
ccpendant aboutir avant lc niois do Juin 1998.
MDs la nomination du nouveau Gouvernement le 13 juin 1998, Ic Ministrc dc la
Planification du D6veloppement ct de la Reconstruction enclencha des discussions avec toutcs les
comiiposantcs du projet: Un plan d'action a ex6cuter cntre aoit ct dcccmbre 1998 fuit finalcmncit
6laborc ct envoy6 a l'IDA pour approbation.
L'IDA a donnc son accord lc 4 septcmbre 1998 pour la grande partic des actions
propos6cs et Icur rcalisation suivi au cours du demier trimestre do l'annce 1998.
Entre le mois de mars 1998 et aout 1998. plusicurs activitcs ont cependant ctc rcalisces par
les differentes composantes notammcnt:
* Le demarrage de I'tude sur Ic scctcur dcs assurances.
* La preparation du guide pour la crcation des entreprises.
II. LA COMPOSANTE VIABILISATION DE LA ZONE INDUSTRIELLE.
Cette composante etait placee sous le tutelle du Ministere dcs travaux publics et de
1'&quipement (MTPE).
La composante a pu realiser deux des trois phases prevues a savoir:
* L'identification du site et la realisation des infrastructures d'acces au site: Ces travaux ont ctc
finance par le Gouvernement du Burundi.



5
La realisation des etudes de viabilisation du site.
A la fin de cette seconde phase, la composante a lance un appel d'offres pour 1'execution
des travaux. La Banque Mondiale a cependant decide la suspcnsion des decaissements pour le
Burundi a cc moment. Lors de la restructuration du projet en Octobre 1997. Ia Banquc Mondiale a
annule cette composante.
111. LA COMPOSANTE ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE.
A- LA CELLULE DE GESTION DU PROJET.
La CGP a r6alisc plusicurs actions d'assistance tcchlniquc durant la priode d'ex6cution du
projet. Dc fa,con pernanente, la CGP a assistc les promoteurs ct Ies entreprises i bicn montcr Ics
dossiers d'ctudes de rentabilitc des investissements avant une demande de finanicemnclt auprcs dcs
IFP. Dc m-mc. Ia CGP a organise ou financc plusicurs seminaircs de formation cen faveur dcs
cadres des banqucs sur place.
Les actions suivantes ont etc rcalisccs par la CGP dans Ic cadre du projet:
( Organisation du 13/2 au 3/3/95 du scminairc de fonration bancaire sur (< ['valuation des
projets d'invcstissements )> Toutes Ics banques ct institutions financicres ont participc a cc
seminairc.
*  Rcalisation en Fcvrier/Mars 1995 d'une Etude sur lcs bcsoins cn formation pour Ics cadrcs des
banques et institutions financicrcs >>. Cette dtude a permis d'identificr ct de formuler Ics termes
de reference de dix s6minaires prioritaires pour les banques.
*  Financement de la participation de 3 exportateurs dc fruits et Icgumes a la Semaine
Intcmationale Verte a Berlin en Janvier 1996.
*  Financcment ct supervision de ['audit du scctcur financier (jUiin ct juillct 1996) par Ic cabinet
COOPERS ß LYBRAND. L'audit a portc sur la BCB. Ia BANCOBU. Ia SBF. ia BBCI et la
CAMOFI.
*  Rcalisation d'un scminaire de formation dcs comptablcs des proicts finances par l'IDA en
juillet 1996.
A partir du mois d'aout 1996. ls pays voisins ont dccidc d'ui enmbargo commercial contre
Ic Burundi. Conformcmcnt aux recommiianldationls du rapport de revuc zi mi parcours du projet. Ia
CGP venait dc lancer un appcl d'offre pour la realisation d'un manucl dc proccdure pour la misc
cn place d'un << Fonds de promotion de l'entreprcunariat. >> Ce fonds devait .outrc l'appui a la
crdation d'entreprises aux promotcurs . pcrmncttrc dc counduirc la prcscrvation Ct la consolidation du
portcfeuille financc notamment par dcs actions d'assistance tcclhniquc ct de formation.
Lors de la lcv&c de la suspension des dccaisscmnits cn octobrc 1 997.11 fut dccidc une
rcstructuration du projet ct une mission d'appui  la lamisc en ocLurre dc la strat6gic cconomiquc et
sociale du Gouvernement fut confic a la C'I.
Dans le cadre dc cette rcstructuration et aprcs I'approbation par l'IDA du plan d'action,
les actions suivantes furent rcaliscs sur Ics trois dermiers mois de l'ann6e 1998:
* Scminaire de formation sur Ic contr6lc internc en favcur du sccteur bancaire au
mois de novembrc 1998.



6
*  Financement de la formation de trois cadres a l'etranger sur la gestion des
privatisations et sur la creation des PME.
*  Financement de la formation de deux cadres a l'ctranger sur la confection des
manuels des proc6dures.
*  Financement d'une mission d'ctudes dans trots pays d'une delegation de
l'Agence de Regulation et de Contr6le des tclecommunications ( ARCT).
La mission d'etudes prevue a I'lle Maurice pour les hauts cadrcs du Ministcre dc la
Planification du D6veloppement et de la Rcconstruction et du Service chargc des entreprises
publiques (SCEP) n'a pas pu ctrc rcalisce.
Du fait d'une prcsentation ct d'unc approbation tardive du plan d'action. les activatcs
suivantes n'ont pas pu ctre menccs et avaient ctc programnimcs par la CGP Cln cas de nouvcllc
prorogation de la date du cl6turc du projet:
B) REFORME ET MODERNISATION DU DROIT DES AFFAIRES.
Cctte composante existait avant Ic projct d'appul au dcvcloppement du scctcur privc dans
Ic cadre du Service charge des Entreprises Publiques (SCEP). Ellc a cnsuItc ctc transfircc sous Ia
tutelle du Ministere du Commerce et de l'Industrie dans le cadrc du PDSP. Cettc composante a pu
travailler jusqu'en 1996 apres la recvue a mi parcours du proet. Les r6alisations de cette
composante sont:
i)Avant l 'int6gration c/u 1?lMODR4 clans le 1'1%S7l:
*  Suppression des barricres sur les routes (Taxation commilunale): Lc dossicr a 6t6 gclc suite a la
crise socio-politique depuis 1993 Allcgcmcnt dcs proccdures d'agrmcnnt comme importatcur ct
exportateur
*   Extension des activit6s du Fonds National de Garantics au secteur des services: Le texte de
cette extension a ctc promulguc.
*   La revision de l'article 149 du code foncicr.
*  La rcvision du codc des investisselmcnts: Cc travail n'a pas pu aboutir a son
ii) AprPs l integration chi RFl.MOI)R?A cLtins lc II)NJl.
*  Etude sur le secteur bancaire: Lcs rccommandations issues de cc travail n'ont pas Co0lnlU dc
suite.
*   Un projet de loi sur les magasins gcncraux et la tierce dctentLon a cependanit ctc proposc.
*  Le livre premier du code du commercc: 11 a ctc promulguc par le dccrct loi n∞ 1/045 du 9/7/93
portant disposition g6n6ralc du code de commcrce. Ncuf mcsures d'application a caractcre
reglementaire n'ont pas pu ctrc claborcs.
*   Le projet de loi portant code des socictcs priv6es ct publiques: Lc code des soci6tCs a ctc
promulgue.
* Projet de loi portant privatisation de la profession dc notaire.
* Projet de loi portant organisation de la profcssion de g6omrtre.
* Projet de loi portant privatisation de la profcssion d'huissicr de justice
* Projet de loi portant rdforme de la Icgislation sur la faillite et le redressement des entreprises en
difficultes.



7
Lorsque la composante le REMODRA a ete arretee, ii tait envisage de commencer les
travaux suivants:
* L'claboration des textes d'application du livre Icr du code de commerce
* La mise en application du code des socictcs promulguc
* La rcforme de la procedure civile
* La reglementation de l'arbitrage commercial
*  La poursuite de simplification des proccdurcs notamnent la rclance du dossier de la
suppression des barrieres sur les routes, Falldgenment dcs conditions d'acccs au transport des
pcrsonnes, etc.
La composante REMODRA a cependant ctc supprimce au cours dc I'antide 1996 . Les
activit&s realisees et les projets prevus ont de facto ctc repris par la composante Cellule dc
Coordination des politiqucs (CCP).
C) LA CELLULE DE COORDINATION DES POLITIQUES (CCP).
La CCP a ctc crede au scin du Ministcrc du Commerce et dc lI'nidustric afin d'appuver Ic
Cabinet du Ministcrc pour les activitcs suivantes:
*   Coordination ct suivi dcs actions de promotion et dc d-c:loppcmnent du sccteur privc et des
exportations.
*  Coordonner et optimiscr les divers programmcs d'assistancc offerts dans ccs domaines par lcs
baillcurs de fonds.
Les objectifs de travail assign6s a cette Cellulc ont cependant ctc compromis par la crise
socio-politique qui a frappc Ic BLiunrdi dcs Octobre 1993: En effet les actions d'appui au secteur
privc ont ctc gelces ou simplcmncit annuldes par les divers baillcurs de fonds progressivement. Dc
mcme .Y'environncrnent pour la divcrsification ct Ic d6ivcloppemncnt des exportations s'cst dctcriorc
tiant pour la disponibilitc dcs produits quic p)ouL IcuLr ziclhicilineicmiclt dcs licux dc production a
Bujumbura Et depuis Aout 1996. Ic transport international tnit bloquc par I' embargo.
Dans cette conjonicturc. la CC'P a nkarnloirns rcalisc quclqucs activitcs dont une ctude sur
l' impact de la crise et Ics perspcctives dc relanicc cn 1995 ainsi ql'ulnlC consultation pour la
dcfinition des actions d'appui au d6vcloppcliernt du secteuir privc.
Les autres rdalisations de la CCP sollt notamlelnclt:
*  Une etudc d'amclioration du statut de zone franclic.
*  L'adhcsion du Bunindi a I'Agence multilat6ralc de garanmic dcs invcstissements (MIGA)
*  La rdalisation des travaux relatifs a l'initiative transtrontalierc.
*  La mise en place et l'aniimiatioin d'une strLcturc dc conccrtation Etat/secteur prive.
*  Mise en place d'un svstmem  de ('Chque du Trcsor pour Ics opcrtions de remboursement des
droits exonerees mais payes par Ics exportateurs.
*  Constitution d'un fonds documentaire pour Ic secteur prnvc au Burundi.
* La realisation d'unc ctude sur Ic secteur des assurances au Burundi.
*  La realisation d'une ctudc sur Ic secteur des assurances au Burundi.



8
Depuis I'annee 1996 a la suppression de la composante REMODRA. Ia CCP a pris cn
charge les travaux realises par cette composante. La suspcnsion des dccaissements qui a suivi cette
periode et I'absence d'un plan d'action durant une partic importante de l'ann&e 1998 n'a ccpcndant
pas perrnis d'avancer les travaux laisses par Ie REMODRA.
D) COMPOSANTE MINES.
Cette composante avait comnme objcctif Ic renforccmcnt des comp6tenccs du Ministcrc Cll
charge des Mines en matiere de negociation des Conventions d'cxploration minicrc et la rcvision du
Code Minier et Petrolier du Burundi.
Le PDSP a notammnent financ6 la participation de la dc&kgation du Burunidi i la
ndgociation d'une convention minicre avec Uine soci6t6 mininre (BHP) a Paris Cln Francc. Le
Ministcre a 6galemcnt claborc Ics tcrmes de rcfdrencc d'unc missioni dc consultation pour la
rdvision du codc minier. L'IDA n'a cependant pas pu faire suitc a cette requctc ct Ic proIct s'est
cl6turd sans qu'il ait dte possible de rcaliscr cette importante rcforme.
E) COMPOSANTE TRIBUNAL DU COMMERCE.
Cette composante avait pour objectif l'amclioration des moy cns d'instruction ct
d'administration du Tribunal de Commerce. Pour cette composante. if etalt prcvu:
*  Ia mise en place d'un fonds documentaire du Tribunal servant cntrc autre a ['acquisitioll du
mnatdriel de bureau (photocopicusc, apparcil fax) et du matcricl roulantt:
*  Ia formation des magistrats ct l'informatisation du Tribunal.
Parmi toutcs ces actions qui avaicit ctc cibldes aui debut dii proict. pCLi de choses ont ctc
rcalisees. Avant 1994, trois magistrats du Tribunlal dc Coommiicrce out cffcctu6 dcs stages dans les
Tribunaux de Commerce en Francec pour prcindre connaissancc dIi fonctioininement dcs autres
tribunaux de commerce. Le Tribunial a b6n&ficid aussi de quiclquies fourniltures de bureau ains
qu-un micro-ordinatcur avcc accessoircs.
Eu cgard a ccs faibics pcrfbrinaiiccs. il cst souliaitabIc (quc Ics actions dcia identificcs
restent dans les prioritcs dui Gouvcrnicmcrit si inic quciconquic solitioll cst cnvisageablc
IV. FACTEURS AYANT LIMI'I'E LES PIERFORMANCES Dl) PROJET.
i) La d6tdrioration dle l environneenlc'nt soci-io/itique et ses consequelces sur
P'&onomie du pa v.
A partir dui mois d'octobrc 1993. Ic 13tiruinidi est cntrd darls tinC crisc socio-politique
profonde qui a perdur- tout au loig dc la pduiodc cx&cutioi dii projet.
La situationi d'insccurit6 clji a pr-valiu a dacouragd Ics niitiiatwcs d'invcstissemcnts
,particulidrcment durant la premiirc moitid dc J'ainc 1994  F I.n cffct lcs infrastructures physiqucs
de l'interieur du pays ont subi beaucoup de d6gits. Dans la C'apitalc. bien quc ces infrastructures
n'aient pas ete detruitcs dans un prenier tcmps. la villc et scs cnvirons ont ctd I'objet d'une
situation d'insecuritd durant toutc l'anncc 1994 et durant l'annde 1995.



9
Les entreprises a Bujumbura qui avaient pu continuer a travailler ont eu trois typcs dc
difficultds majeures:
*  A plusicurs reprises, Ic personnel avait dcs difficultes a se rendre sur les licux de
travail du fait dc l'insecuritc pcrsistante dans plusieurs localitds.
*  A partir de 1995. dos sabotages des ligncs d'alimcntation du courant ciectriquc a la
yile de Bujumbura ont provoquc un ralcntissemcnt trcs important sur la production
industrielle.
*  Des aout 1996c1'embargo imposc au Burundi a stoppc l'approvisionnocnient en intrant
ainsi que les exportations.
Ccs differents elements ct toutos lcs conscquences d'une guerrc civile persistantc ont fini
par rendre pratiquement impossible tout invostisscmcnt. L'infilationi n 'a pas cess& do croitrc jusqu a
attcindrc des taux de croissancc avoisinants lcs 40 pour-cent par la rarctc dcs produits
cssonticelement agricolcs avant Aout 1996 puis manufacturiers aprcs cctte date. Le cout des
invcstissemcnts ctait devenu prohibitif. Les taux d'inttrcts dos cmppnilts sonit devenus ncgatil's cn
terme r6ols. Lc taux dc changc officicl ctait infcricur dc prcs do 60 % au taux du march6 parallMe.
Los institutions ddcisionncllcs du pays n'ont pu procddcr i ['approbation do certaines rlormics ou d
tcur misc cn oouvrc. L'cxportiso ctrang,rc hcsitait a se rcndre au Burundi on gcncral et zi l'intcricur
du pays en particulicr.
ii) Imperfection dans le montage institutionnel du projet.
Au momcnt du dcmarrage du projct. ccrtaines dispositions pratiqucs ii'avaicnt pas ctc
pr6vucs dans l'accord dc credit notamment:
*   Le changement dc tuitlle do la composanite Rctormc et modernisation du droit dos affairos
(REMORDA ) qui passait du Service C'harg& des Eintroprises l'ubliques (SCEP) au Ministcrc
du Commerce ct de l'lndustric.
*   L'impr6cision sur les comlptes spcciaux pour le l;onctionnenlent des composaiites REMODRA
Tribunal do commorce et la (i&ologic ct Mincs.
*   Lo projct ctant a plusictirs composanles. I'accorid ni los aidc-minmoirc des diffcrcntcs missions
de supervision n'ont pzis dmili Iai itillc hcniiui  gn;Ii e dvi projot. Ccllc-ci cst rcvonue
implicitemrnt aL Ministrc dcs Finances Owlw dotinu  qciil  al;t sigiiataire du cr6dit ct qu'il est
Gouvernour du BuruinLdi pour Ia Banque Mondiale.
*   L'accord ii'a pas pr6vta los licns cntrc le proijca APIE'X ctle projct d'appui au dcvcloppcmcnt du
secteur privc.
Cos omissions onl enl palclu i;l tcv&cs par les amendements i l'accord do cr6dit cn 1994 et
en janvier 1998. Touttefois (tc dlfficidlkts lout aul lonig (Ic cxcutIion du proict i'ont pas manqu6 do
surgir du fait do cc mon1tage incollplet Oin peut flot lltlilalint citer
*   Les conflits cntrc los composantbs ('clitle de (oordination des Politiquos (CCP) ct to
REMODRA qui ont tinialcmint abouti a la supprcssion de la composante REMODRA en 1996
ct l'integration do facto dos rcalisations et dcs actions du REMODRA a la composante CCP.
*   Des interfdrcnces cntrc composantes so sont produites tout au long de cxccution du projet .



10
* La confusion qui a prevalu lors de la restructuration du projet au debut de l'annre 1998 et ses
consequences sur l'execution en g6n6rale du projet tire egalement ses racines dans les lacuncs
du montage institutionnel du pro'et a l'origine.
Cette experience devrait etre misc a profit dans la conception de nouveaux crcdits et
projets. 11 serait cependant souhaitable quc dans la mcsure du possiblc. Ie montagc institutionnel
des projets soit assez simple, clair, en tenant surtout compte du caractere multisectoricl chaquc fois
que de besoin.
iii) Suivi des decisions des missions de supervision.
Du fait de la crise socio-politique . les missions dc supernision W'onit pas CtC rcguIicres. 11 a
ete constate par suite qu'il v avait quclques difficultcs au suivi des recomilialidatiolis et d&ciSiols
dc ces missions: Des dossiers de demandes de non objection n'ont pas cii de suite notamnmcnt. des
fois les problemes lids a l'organisation institutioinelle n'ont pas cu de solutioIns i toimps cntrainant
un blocage dans l'execution du projct; il a c  ressenti parfois un cloisonnmccnt cntre lcs ser ices
de ddcaissements et lcs services dc supervision du projet. etc.
V. PERSPECTIVES D'AVENIR.
Certains des Mvnemonts principaux avant rcnduL difficile la r6alisation dii prOict comimiiec
l'insccurit6 g6ncralis&c. Ics interruptions prolong6cs de '6inergie 6iectriquc et l'cmbargo ont ctc
maitriscs.
Le processus de paix cngage cntrc toutcs los sensibilitCs politiqucs du pays est sir Lille
bonne lanccc et pourrait aboutir vers Ia fin dc l'anin6c cn cours. Ces difftrcnts Licmciits pcrmettent
la creation progrcssive d'unc confianice danis tinC rclaiice econonilque a termc.
It s'av&rc n6ccssairc d'initicr ;i brcvc ckiance des ncstires dc rcconstruction et de
redressement do l'6conomic. (cs micsircs dcvrait pcrnicttrc d'engager Ulle rcstructtiration dc
F6conomic afin d'aboutir zi tcrinic a tin sySInie caractt.rise par la comnpctitivitc et la prcdominancc
diu secteur privc dans les activitSs dc production cl do services.
La rolance de 1'economic devralit s'articuler sui les actions suivantes:
*   Rctablisscmcnt des principaux jidicatcirs socio-cconiomiqtics dont notamment un taux
d'inflation A un chiffre. los taux d'ilnt6rts r6els positifs. tinc maitrise du dcficit public. un
retablissement do certains indicaitetirs sociaux dc base commie lc taux de scolarisation Ic taux
de couvcrturc sanitaire, Ic pourcentagc do I'liabiat d&ceilt. ctc.
*   Reconstruction des ouvrages d6triiits ct cndoninigas.
*   Accroissemcnt et diversification do la production agricole do manicrc A rcievcr
substanticllement les rcvonus dii moide rural ct d'augmenter lcs produits exportablcs: fleurs,
fruits, Idgumcs pour la granido exportation et les produiits vivriers pour Ia sous r6gion.
*   Promotion de la micro entreprise ct do la transformiationi dans l'agro-Lievagc.



11
Dans un avenir immrdiat, la realisation de ces objectifs et la poursuite des actions initiccs
dans le cadre du PDSP pourraient etre concentrees sur Ics activites suivantes:
1) La consolidation du portefeuille des entreprises et la disponibilisation d'un service
d'assistance technique.
Outre le diagnostic des banqucs. Ia mission dc rcvuc a mi parcours du PDSP en Mars 1')'6
avait recomnmande la mise en place d'un fonds de promotion dc 1'entrepreunariat dont Ic r6le ctait
la mise A disposition d'une assistancc technique multiforme aux entreprises ct aux promoteurs avec
lc principe du cout partage. Dans le contexte de la relance .cc fonds pourrait 6galement constitucr
l'instrument d'elaboration et do conception des rcformnns economniqucs a soumiicttrc aux decideurs
afin d'cnclencher la restructuration de 1'cconomic. Avec ces dernircs rcforncs sculement. I'action
initice par la rdforme l6gale lancee avant ct poursuivic dans Ic cadre de cx&cution du PDSP
pourrait avoir une efficacite concrcte dans la promotion du secteur privc.
2) Appui au secteurfinancier.
Les rdsultats dc I'audit du secteur financier rnalisc en 1996 et Cll 1997 permettraicnt
d'ctablir une base d'un programme de l'ajustcmcnt financier attendu depuis 1995. C(  programme
est d'autant plus urgent quo tous los travaux et rdunions sur les modalitcs concr6tes do la rclance
dconomique posent Ic problcme dc la disponibilitc des rcssources financicrcs pour apurer la dotte
de l'Etat cnvers le secteur privc et Ic secteur bancaire. ct ensuite disponibilitc des ressources
notanunent en devises pour renfloucr la trcsorcric des cntreprises afin dc reconstitucr lcurs stocks
et permettrc la reprise des investissements
L'appui au sectcur financier devrait aussi poursuivre I'action de formation initicc dans Ic
cadre du PDSP en l'intensifiant. Lc problcmc dc la disponibilitc ct do la capacitc d'accds aux
ressources financicres ct aux devises poUr Ie sectcur pri\d cen gdndral ct pour les activitcs dc
production dans Ic milicu rural cn particulicr constituic Ic point tboal de la dcfinition du tvpc de
rclance a adoptcr:
Le mccanismc ai Dettrc Cen oeuvre derailt idieiilC par cifl't d'entraiDeCment la
disponibilisation de revenus susccptiblcs dc finlanlccr la reconstructioni et Ia redynamisation do la
production et des cchangcs coninicrciaux par Ics privcs ct les mniagcs.
Un financcmcnt dircct dcs bcsoins dc rcconistrulctioni ct dc rcdnarnisation do l'offrc
conduirait autrement a dcs bcsomiis Col Icssomnccs diiICIICIICInt acccssiblcs par Ic pays.
3) Assistance technique' auxv vtr curm  /chwrA'cks dinitier les aCtiOnN (/c liberalisation
de privatisation et cle de;reglementiation vixant Ic domnwine ,n,blic
La rationalisation et la rostructuration do I'cononile ailSi qms ' u io r6ello promotion du
secteur prive passcront n6cossaircment par cos typcs Lio rcilornics. Cellos-ci ncccssitcnt cependant
une expertise nationale et 6trangdrc ai mobillsor ct ai encadrer.
Les structures tcllcs quo lo SCE'P . Ic PAS. Ics services do promotion do diff6rents
ministeres en charges do l'invcstisscmicnt ont un bcsoin importanit d'appui tcchnique et financier
pour conduire ces diff6rentes rdformis.



12
4) Internalisation etformation.
La restructuration indispensable de l'cconomic passera par dcs reformes cconomiqucs qui
pour certaines bousculeront certainos habitudes ,Ics intcrets dc groupes ou des lobbv existants .Un
debat et un dialogue constituent des conditions dc r6ussitc de tcllos politiqucs afin de tenir compte
dans les decisions et rassurer les uns ct Ics autres de la sauvegardc a tcrme dcs intcrets dc tous lIs
acteurs.
Lc projet d'appui au developpement du sectcur privc aura c  executc dans un contextc
cnvironnemental et institutionncl difficile. 11 aura ccpcndant pcrmis d'entamcr des actions d'appui
importantes pour le secteur privc tant cn maticrc dc financcment dc l'invcstisscmcnt qu'cl maticrc
d'amelioration de la legislation et d'encadrement du sectcur des entrcprises.
11 rcste cepcndant utilc d'cngager dans I'avcnir des r6formes cconoiniiqLics vcritablcs: a
cette condition, les efforts initiecs dans la rcformfc Igalc pourraicirt cnfini condtire i Utine cfficacitc
dans la restructuration de l'economic.
Des reussites et des echccs dans I' cxccution du PDSP permettont . au ternic do cc pro'Ict
d'avoir une vision plus realiste des mccanismcs qui sur Ic plan pratique . sont a mcmc d'cntrainer
un reel ddveloppement du scctcur privc.
A cc titre ct de bon moment vcnu. Ia primautc qui reviendra au sectcur dans la rclancc de
l'cconomic et do la rcconstruction au Burundi exigera un cadrc coh6rcnt. bicn coordonnc et micux
suivi par l'Administration pour une promotion rccllcmcnt intcgrativc dc 1'ensciiiblc dcs secteurs
prioritaircs.



2'8'                                                                                             i'O.~~~~~  30                                           310
>4~~~~k                              R WA  N  DA
#~   Kivu
6Rwerug
TO   ~~~~~~*~' TO
Butore                             ~~~~~~Nyakanazi
Muyn
uvi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
UV~
-         RIVERST
DEMIONLCRAPTIC REPUBLIC
This mop was produced by the
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.      OF  CONGO
The boundaries, colors, denominations
and anyother informotion shown on this
-n      map do not imply, on the part of The                                                                                                02                        0KLMTR
w3      World Bank Group, any judgment on250K 
a       the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                I
>       endorsement or acceptance of such                                                                                                   02                                       OIE
<  boundaries.   ig 
10             ~~28'                                                    290                                      Ki9ama         300                                                     310



